DRN-4461456
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a rent guarantee claim he made on his DAS Legal Expenses
Insurance Company Limited (DAS) rent protection insurance policy.
Mr M says that DAS treated him unfairly.
What happened
When Mr Ms tenant defaulted on his rent repayments, Mr M made a rent guarantee claim on
his DAS rent protection insurance policy.
DAS considered the claim and declined to cover it. They said Mr M hadnt complied with one
of the conditions of the policy when he took on the tenant, which was to obtain a satisfactory
reference from a referencing service. DAS say that although Mr S did obtain a reference,
when interpreted, meant that the tenant couldnt afford the rent when Mr M tenanted his
property to him. As such DAS refused to consider the rent guarantee claim but they did offer
Mr M £50 for the upset caused because the meaning of satisfactory could have been made
clearer in the policy.
Unhappy, Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator
considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said that Mr M
hadnt complied with the policy condition to obtain a satisfactory reference, so DAS didnt
need to consider his claim. She also said the £50 compensation offered was reasonable. Mr
M doesnt agree, so the matter was passed to me to determine.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month along the following lines:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Ms complaint, and this is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
1. We will pay Your Rent Arrears while Your tenant or ex-tenant still occupies the Let
Property up to a maximum of 12 months for any one claim..
Provided that:
In both 1 and 2 You have:
I obtained a satisfactory reference* for each tenant and each guarantor from a
referencing service before the tenancy started;
*The reference must include written references from a previous managing agent or landlord;
an employer (or any other financial source); and a credit history check (including the
Enforcement of Judgements Office, County Court Judgments and bankruptcy).
In this case Mr M supplied a reference from his tenants accountant setting out that his self-
employed income for the previous year amounted to £641 gross per month on average. It
also set out that this was in respect of part time working and that he was currently working
full time with an estimated monthly earning of £1,166 gross. The reference also sets out his
wife was working full time hours when he was working part time.
DAS reached the conclusion that the reference was not satisfactory. They based this on the
figures for Mr Ms previous years earnings when compared to the rental payment of £450
which they say meant the rent was unaffordable. DAS accept that the policy wording doesnt
specify a formula or benchmark to inform what is meant as satisfactory within the policy
terms but they still declined the claim. Instead, they offered Mr M £50 because they thought
the terms could have been clearer on this point. I dont think this was reasonable in the
circumstances. Firstly, the term DAS have relied on to decline the claim isnt clear. And it
certainly doesnt set out that a tenants affordability should be worked out in the way that
DAS have. Indeed, nothing in the terms refer to affordability at all. I appreciate that this was
likely to be the intention behind them, but I dont think that means that DAS were entitled to
interpret them in the way that they did. And in the absence of a specific definition for
satisfactory, I think DAS were wrong to turn down Mr Ms claim.
That said, I have thought about the dictionary definition of satisfactory when considering
the term Ive quoted. Reading the term that way, the reference needed to fulfil expectations,
be acceptable, though not outstanding or perfect. I think the reference did meet that criteria.
Whilst it could be concluded that Mr Ms previous years income was less than acceptable to
meet rental payments, DAS didnt take into account that the accountant said his wife was
working full time. And, whilst she wasnt the tenant, this would inevitably have meant the
household income was considerably more than Mr Ms previous years earnings. Taken
together with the fact that Mr M was now working full time, I struggle to see why the
reference would be less than acceptable.
But even if that wasnt the case, Im not persuaded that DAS should have looked back at this
reference to determine an unacceptable risk was present when the tenant had consistently
paid rent to Mr M for 15 years before he defaulted. Mr M says that in that time his tenants
financial position changed considerably, such that he hadnt defaulted until he made his
claim. I think this is relevant because the tenant clearly did not have the same risk profile he
presented when he first let Mr Ms property. And for the reasons Ive mentioned, the tenant
wasnt what I would consider to be as being an unacceptable risk at that time in any event.
As I understand it, Mr M has now recovered the rent arrears due to him, so hes not seeking
reimbursement of this. As such Ive considered an appropriate award of redress for DAS
actions. If things had gone as they should have, DAS would have accepted Mr Ms claim
from the outset. The fact that they didnt, would no doubt have caused him some worry given
the policy was in place to help him with the kind of situation he found himself in. And after
the claim was turned down, Mr M was put to considerable inconvenience pursuing things,
when he shouldnt have had to. Taken together, the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr
M is enough to warrant a higher award than the £50 offered by DAS. Accordingly, Im
increasing the compensation payable to Mr M to £150 to encompass the £50 offered. I think
this is more appropriate in the circumstances.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments and evidence in response to 
my provisional findings. Mr M hasnt responded but DAS have. Theyve said they have no 
additional points to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given I have no further submissions from either party, I remain of the view that Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld as set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
DAS should pay Mr M £150 to compensate Mr M for the stress and inconvenience their 
actions caused. This award encompasses the £50 offered by DAS previously to Mr M in 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman