DRN-3378070
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down a claim on its business interruption insurance policy. 
Mr B, a director of E, has complained on Es behalf.
What happened
E held a property owners insurance policy with Aviva. E claimed on its policy after it was 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Aviva turned down Es claim. They said the core business interruption section of Es policy 
and some of the extensions required the interruption to Es business to be as a result of 
damage to property and Covid-19 didnt damage property. They said while the policy 
covered closure as a result of a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of those 
diseases. They added that although the policy provided cover for closure by the 
Government, this excluded action taken in controlling, preventing or supressing the spread 
of disease. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, E brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Es claim. 
E asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said Covid-19 wasnt specifically excluded by the 
policy and the purpose of insurance is to cover unforeseen circumstances, such as this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Es business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Es claim.
Damage
The core business interruption insurance section of Es policy says:
We will cover You for Loss of Gross Rentals if Property used by You at Your 
Premises for the purpose of Your Business is Damaged, causing interruption or 
interference to Your Business. 
The policy defines damage as physical loss, destruction or damage. 
For this to provide cover, Es loss would need to be as a result of damage to property 
at its premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Es loss is as a result of 
damage to property at its premises, so this section of the policy doesnt provide cover. 
Cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The extensions for 
loss of attraction and prevention of access provide cover for loss as a result of 
damage to property within one mile of Es premises. However, I havent seen anything 
to indicate that Es loss was as a result of damage to property within one mile of Es 
premises. Therefore, these extensions dont provide cover. 
Action by Police Government or other Competent Authority
E has referred to this extension being listed on the Schedule and as such thinks it should 
provide cover. However, the Schedule is clear that its a summary of the cover and the 
document should be read in conjunction with the policy wording. 
The relevant part of this extension within the policy wording says that Aviva covers:
The prevention or restriction of access to, or closure of, Your Premises, by any 
Police, Government or other competent Authority, due to an emergency event 
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises that causes or threatens a 
danger or disturbance. 
However, the policy says it wont provide cover for:
action taken in controlling, preventing or suppressing the spread of any disease
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business 
Interruption Insurance test case is relevant to Es complaint, because the High Court
considered a similar term to that within Es policy and this part of the judgment wasnt
appealed.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I think Es premises
closed as a result of action in response to Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations 
website describes as an infectious disease. So this extension doesnt cover Es claim. Specified disease
This extension provides cover for loss as a result of a specified disease occurring at or within 
five miles of Es premises. The policy sets out a specified list of covered diseases, which 
doesnt include Covid-19.  
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Es policy is not like 
this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the 
wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might 
emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases 
and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Es claim.
E said that Covid-19 isnt specifically excluded in the policy. However, as there isnt anything 
in the policy that provides cover, it doesnt make a difference that there isnt an exclusion for 
Covid-19. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome E was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay its claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman