DRN-4186573
The complaint
Mrs D complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim for storm damage 
under her home insurance.
Mrs D bought her policy through an intermediary and most of her correspondence has been 
with this intermediary. However, AXA is the underwriter of the policy (the insurer) and 
accountable for the actions of the intermediary and its agents (for example, the surveyor). 
Any reference to AXA in my decision includes the actions of the intermediary and its agents.
What happened
Mrs D had an AXA home insurance policy. In July 2021, following a torrential rainstorm, she 
discovered rainwater had damaged her roof and come into her home, causing damage to a 
ceiling, walls, and carpet. Mrs D made a claim to AXA on her insurance. 
AXA initially declined the claim because it said there hadnt been a storm. It then appointed a 
surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor said:
The valley at the back of the property is not wide enough for the pitch of the roof, 
this is causing a leak.
The back tray on the chimney has not been welded and has been poorly installed, 
this is causing a leak.
The cement fillets on the same chimney stack are cracked, this is causing a leak.
He concluded: Issues are caused by general wear and tear and bad workmanship.
Based on this, AXA declined the claim. It told Mrs D the damage to her home wasnt due to 
high winds or rainfall, but an underlying issue that has been highlighted by the weather 
conditions. This meant the damage wasnt covered by her policy.
Mrs D was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She wants AXA to 
refund the £2,376 it cost to repair her roof. She says, in summary:
The damage was caused by the extreme weather conditions, not wear and tear.
AXAs surveyor didnt carry out a proper survey. He didnt access the roof to inspect 
it or take any photos. 
AXA didnt send her the report until she brought her complaint to this service.
The surveyor who signed the report hadnt visited her home. She believes the report 
to be fabricated and not true.
The photos in the report were taken by her roofer, not AXAs surveyor. 
Two of the photos were taken after her roofer had moved tiles to inspect the damage, 
so didnt show the roofs condition immediately after the storm.
The report omitted a photo that showed the roof before the tiles were moved.
There are basic errors in the report. For example, the address is missing, date of loss 
is wrong, date of visit is blank, and the number of storeys in her home is wrong. 
The time AXA took to process her claim was unacceptable. She had to constantly 
call and email about her claim and didnt get a decision until November 2021.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld in part. He agreed 
that the heavy rainfall met the policy definition of a storm, but he didnt think it was the main 
cause of damage. He agreed with AXA that it was more likely that the rainwater entered Mrs 
Ds home because the roof/chimney structure was already damaged. He thought AXA had 
acted fairly by declining Mrs Ds claim. However, he thought AXAs handling of her claim had 
caused Mrs D unnecessary distress. He recommended that it pay her £150 to reflect this.
Mrs D disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most polices, Mrs Ds cover only makes AXA liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in her 
policy. 
Mrs D says her home was damaged by the torrential rainfall. Page 13 of her policy booklet 
shows shes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm. Page 7 of the booklet defines a 
storm as: A period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at 
least 25mm per hour. 
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
AXA initial told Mrs D the weather didnt meet the policy definition of a storm, based on data 
from a weather station near her home. However, Mrs D explained that this was a localised 
storm and asked AXA to review its decision. AXA investigated this and accepted the policy 
condition was met. 
Mrs D has provided photos, videos, and local and national news reports showing the 
torrential rain that fell in her neighbourhood on 12 July 2021. For the avoidance of doubt, I agree that the rainfall met the policy definition of a storm. However, I think its important to 
note that there were no storm force winds during the rainstorm.
On the second question, the damage to Mrs Ds home isnt typically damage Id expect to be 
caused by heavy rain alone. Rainfall rarely causes damage to a well maintained property on 
its own and is more likely to highlight an existing fault. Mrs Ds roofer highlighted cracked 
mortar on the chimney and lead flashing having come loose. I dont think these would 
typically be caused by heavy rainfall. 
So was the rainfall the main cause of the damage? AXA says it wasnt. Instead, its 
surveyors report says Mrs Ds roof was already in a poor state of repair. The report contains 
five photos of Mrs Ds roof and concludes: Issues are caused by general wear and tear and 
bad workmanship.
Mrs D says AXAs surveyor didnt carry out a full survey and challenges the validity of his 
report. I note the points she makes about this. 
I also have concerns about the report. An internal note on 26 October 2021 shows that AXA 
hadnt received it by that date. The date stamped on the report is 27 October 2021. So it 
looks like the report was written three months after AXAs surveyor attended Mrs Ds home. 
The report also implies the surveyor accessed the roof himself and his conclusions are 
based on his observations from that visit (for example, Attended the above property to 
report the following and Method of Roof Access: Ladder). Mrs D says the surveyor didnt 
go on the roof or take any photos. She sent us WhatsApp messages showing the photos in 
the report were sent to her by her roofer on 28 July 2021 and she subsequently forwarded 
them to AXAs surveyor. Given this evidence, I think its likely that the surveyor reviewed the 
photos taken by Mrs Ds roofer and based his conclusions on these photos rather than his 
own inspection of the roof.
However, this doesnt mean the surveyors conclusions are wrong. While I think the surveyor 
should have been clear that his report was a desk-based review of Mrs Ds photos, I think 
the photos show damage to the roof that I dont think could have been caused by the 
rainstorm. For example, they show gaps in the chimney mortar and loose flashing around its 
base.
I think some of Mrs Ds evidence supports this. She told us her roofer found cracks around 
the chimney underneath the lead flashing which needed to be repointed. She also noted 
that one of the photos showed that the lead flashing around the base of the chimney was 
loose and, in her roofers opinion, needed to be replaced. As Ive said, this isnt the sort of 
damage that I would expect to see caused by heavy rainfall alone. 
In my opinion, Mrs D hasnt provided enough evidence to contradict AXAs surveyors 
opinion and show that the rainfall was the main cause of damage. For example, she hasnt 
provided a report from either her roofer or the contractor that carried out repairs in June 
2022.
Ive thought very carefully about this, however I dont think the damage is consistent with 
storm damage. I think the evidence shows there was underlying damage to the roof before 
the storm. That means the poor condition of the roof was the main reason rainwater was 
able to enter Mrs Ds home. Despite my concerns with AXAs report, I think it was 
reasonable for AXA to decline Mrs Ds claim.
Finally, I think AXAs handling of Mrs Ds claim was poor. It took more than three months to 
send a final response to Mrs D about her claim, despite her chasing for an answer. Similarly, it failed to respond to this services repeated requests for information, causing unnecessary 
delays in us being able to consider her complaint. Ive highlighted my concerns with its 
surveyors report above. AXA doesnt appear to have addressed this, despite Mrs D 
repeatedly saying the surveyor didnt go up to her roof.
Our investigator recommended AXA pay Mrs D £150. I dont think this adequately 
compensates Mrs D for the distress it caused her. Ive considered what this service has 
awarded in similar circumstances, and I think £300 is more appropriate here. I make no 
other order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and order AXA Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs D £300 to reflect its poor handling of her claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman