DRN-4185655
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Asset Exchange Ltd, trading as The Asset Exchange (TAE), has
mishandled his hire purchase agreement account causing him financial detriment.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr P entered into a 60-month hire purchase agreement with TAE for a
car. The contractual payments due under the agreement were 59 monthly amounts of
£436.78, and one final payment of £436.48.
Unfortunately, Covid had an impact on Mr Ps income, and it was agreed that a number of
payment breaks between March and December 2020 would be applied to his account. This
payment break balance amounted to £3,476.04.
Mr P resumed payments and was paying the £436.78 amount via two payments per month.
During a phone call with TAE in April 2021, Mr P was told his account was in arrears by
£218.39. He agreed to enter into a payment plan to clear those arrears by increasing his
monthly payment amount by £36.40 for the following six months. 
However, Mr Ps account in April 2021 hadnt been in arrears and so TAE put that 
overpayment towards the payment break balance reducing it to £3,257.64.
Mr P then missed two payments in October and November 2021, and arrears accrued of
£873.56. Mr P then made overpayments to his account from December 2021 to February
2022 of £83.22 per month. This meant the accrued arrears were reduced by £249.66 to
£623.90. Mr P made further overpayments up to April amounting to £103.22 and these again
were put towards the accrued arrears leaving a balance of £520.68.
Mr P says he was unhappy at TAEs handling of his account. He says there was confusion
over the accounts balance, that he had wrongly been informed he was in arrears in April
2021, when this wasnt the case and hadnt been told that the £218.40 overpayment had
been put towards the payment break balance. He made a complaint to TAE.
TAE didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that, in the absence of instructions in regard to
the overpayment amount of £218.40, it had put this amount towards the payment break
balance. However, it said it would move that sum and place it against the arrears balance if
Mr P wished it to do so. It apologised if Mr P felt he hadnt been kept properly up to date
about his account.
Mr P was unhappy at TAEs response and complained to this service. He said TAE had
poorly communicated with him and that its record keeping for his account had been poor.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He said TAEs
adviser may have been unaware Mr P was paying his contractual monthly payment in two
instalments on different dates when they had told him in April 2021 that there were arrears
on the account. But our investigator said he didnt think this had financially prejudiced Mr P
as he had taken the payment holiday and then later had accrued arrears on his account. He
said it was reasonable for TAE to have deducted the overpayments made from April 2021,
from the payment break balance. As TAE had also offered to move the overpayment and
deduct that amount from the arrears balance, our investigator said he didnt think it had done
anything that was unfair.
Mr P disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that there had been an impact from
being told he was in arrears, as he had paid more at a time he couldnt really afford to do so.
He said that TAE should have refunded him the overpayment and it was unreasonable for it
to have deducted this amount from his payment break balance, without telling him of its
intention first. Mr P also said TAE should have made a formal written payment plan with him
for the arrears that arose in October and November 2021 as it had when it had said he was
in arrears in April.
Mr P has also recently requested that his complaint is placed on hold, while a new complaint
he has made against TAE is considered by this service, so that an ombudsman looks at
everything at the same time.
As an agreement about this complaint hasnt been reached it was passed to me. I reached a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
Included in the various documents provided were the case notes made by TAE, a statement 
of the payments made by Mr P under the agreement recorded on the Axle Hub and a copy 
of the customers statement. Looking at these particular documents, Id seen that a payment
break was agreed by TAE for Mr Ps account from March 2020, due to the impact the
pandemic had had on his income. He had made half of the monthly contractual payment, 
namely £218.39 in March 2020, followed by a payment of £236.59, which is just over half the 
due amount in April 2020. There had been no monthly payments from May to October 2020. 
It was then agreed that, in November and December 2020, Mr P would make reduced 
payments which he did, paying £218.39 for each month. This brought the payment break 
balance to £3,476.04. It was agreed that Mr Ps account would be reviewed at the end of 
January 2021, and he was notified of this via email.
Mr P had then resumed the full contractual monthly amount for January, February and 
March 2021. During a phone call with an agent of TAE in April 2021, Mr P had been 
informed that there were arrears of £218.39 on his account.
Looking at the notes, it appeared that the agent reviewing the account considered that these 
arrears had arisen from the February 2021 payment, but I could see this hadnt been the 
case and his account hadnt actually been in arrears. There appeared to have been some
confusion with TAE over the length of the payment break provided to Mr P but it was
accepted he had been permitted a break equating to 7.96 months. I could also see that Mr 
P, when he had resumed payments, was making two instalments per month rather than one.
I was also aware that the customer statement, and the Axle Hub statement, showed slightly
different information in respect of the payments around the payment break. The March 2020
payment in the customer statement was showing as being made in full, with no payment for
April 2020, but the Axle Hub statement showed two part-payments made in March and April
2020. However, the difference as to what Mr P might have thought hed owed after the
payment break, and what he actually owed, is a relatively small sum. I could see TAE had 
clarified the actual balance with him in its final response letter to his complaint.
So, I accepted that TAE had incorrectly informed Mr P there were arrears of £218.39 on his
account, and that the Axle Hub statement and the customer statement it had provided 
differed slightly. But even though there were errors by TAE, not every mistake will result in
compensation being due to a consumer. It would depend on the impact of the error andwhether compensation is proportionate and fair.
Dealing first with Mr P having been wrongly informed about the arrears in April 2021, Id 
seen the TAE agent had invited him to complete an income and expenses form to assess his 
financial circumstances before any decision was made about clearing those arrears. Mr P 
had declined that and instead offered to pay an additional amount for the next six months to 
clear them. He had offered to pay a total monthly amount of £473.18, which was £36.38 
more for the next six months and had said that this amount was affordable for him.
While I appreciated this additional amount hadnt been required at that time, I hadnt seen 
any evidence this was unaffordable for Mr P at the time he had made that offer. Mr P then 
missed a payment in October 2021, meaning arrears had then accrued on his account which 
he would need to clear.
While I also appreciated Mr P was upset that TAE had sought the additional payments from 
April, and then deducted the overpayment amount from the payment break balance rather 
than refund him, looking at how he had managed his account, I thought TAEs subsequent 
offer to move that overpayment and put it against his arrears balance was a fair solution. I 
disagreed that it would be fair to reimburse him when his account was in arrears. And 
although that wasnt the case when he had been first making the overpayments it was the 
case by October and I didnt think I could reasonably ignore these current circumstances. Mr 
P was required to make his contractual monthly payments.
I accepted TAE hadnt contacted Mr P about using the overpayment to reduce the payment 
break balance, but I could understand why TAE had made that decision. As set out above, I 
thought its resolution of moving that amount now, to reduce the accounts arrears, was 
sufficient and I didnt think it would be reasonable or fair to ask TAE to pay compensation to 
Mr P for its handling of the overpayment.
Looking at the differences between the customer statement and the Axle Hub statement, I
didnt think the information was significantly misleading, such that it was so misleading that it
would cause significant confusion to Mr P as to what he had owed after the payment break. 
The difference was between an eight-month break and a 7.96-month break and amounted to
£18.00. I didnt think that compensation would be a proportionate response to this issue.
Mr P said he should have been subject to a payment plan for the arrears that had accrued in
October 2021. I wasnt sure he had raised that as a formal complaint to TAE as this aspect 
was not covered in its final response letter. But Id seen Mr P had made overpayments to his
account from December 2021 to clear those arrears. However, I hadnt seen anything that
would show Mr P had been financially prejudiced by there being no payment plan in place 
for the October and November arrears. And if Mr P couldnt afford payments to these 
arrears, then I thought it was reasonable to say he would have been aware, due to his past 
dealings with TAE, that he could raise this with it and complete an income and expenses 
form.
Id seen Mr P had asked that I dont deal with this complaint until a new issue he had raised
about TAEs handling of his account had been joined to this complaint. Id seen that TAE
had issued its final response letter for this new matter and Mr P had made a formal 
complaint to this service for that to be investigated. But investigation takes time, and an 
investigator will also need to issue their view on the matter raised. So, the process could 
take some months before it was ready to be passed to an ombudsman. I also couldnt rule 
out the possibility that a resolution could be found during the investigation process.
When looking at fairness I must look at both parties, and in light of the not insignificant delay
that would occur while I waited to see if Mr Ps second complaint required an ombudsmansview, I didnt think it was appropriate or fair to delay my decision on this complaint. Both Mr P
and TAE should have this complaint concluded.
Having considered the issues Mr P had raised and although, as set out above, I agreed that
TAE have made some errors in the handling of his account I didnt think that an award of
compensation was proportionate when looking at the overall impact of those errors on Mr P.
For the reasons given, I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P has disagreed with my provisional decision not to uphold his complaint as he says not 
to do so would be unfair and unreasonable since some of the aspects he had raised were 
clearly upheld. Mr P says that compensation was actually the final consideration of his 
complaint and his purpose had been to seek for TAE to improve its performance. He says if 
the complaint isnt upheld then TAE wont take any remedial actions and it should be asked 
to review its record keeping and communication with customers.
Mr P also says that the monthly balances shown for the payment break figures recorded on 
the Axle Hub statement differed, in particular he says for April 2021 when the figure differed 
by £226.59 and not £18 as I suggested, which is more than a slight difference. He says it 
wasnt clear what the true balance for this period was.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reviewed the conclusions I reached when making my provisional decision 
against the comments provided by Mr P, and although Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, I havent 
changed my mind.
I agree that TAE made an error when handling Mr Ps account but that doesnt mean that a 
consumers complaint would be automatically upheld. I still need to consider how the 
business then dealt with that mistake. My remit isnt to seek businesses to change their 
business practices nor to punish them for bad service, my role is to look at whether TAE had 
acted fairly towards Mr P. So, although Mr P wants TAE to take remedial action about the 
way it handles accounts thats not something I can ask it to do. I cant require a business to 
improve their record keeping and/or communications with customers generally.
TAE wrongly advised Mr P that his account was in arrears and asked him to increase his 
payments for a period to repay what it said was the outstanding amount. But although this 
was an error at the time, within a few months Mr Ps account had fallen into arrears, and I 
think its fair that I take that into account when looking at TAEs actions. Ive seen that TAE 
has offered to use that overpayment by Mr P to reduce the actual arrears. So, although there 
was some financial detriment to Mr P when paying arrears that hadnt existed at that time, he 
was then able to benefit from those overpayments by reducing what he later owed when he 
fell behind with his payments. I think the detriment/benefit in effect cancelled each other out. 
Looking at all the circumstances, I think that TAEs offer to reduce the arrears by the 
overpayment was fair and what I would have expected it to have done. As explained above, I 
didnt think TAEs actions warranted compensation to Mr P and so although he had 
complained to this service I wasnt asking TAE to do more than it already had to address the 
issues he had raised on that matter. 
As I am satisfied that TAE had acted reasonably and fairly when dealing with the situation of 
Mr Ps account despite its error, I think my provisional decision not to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint on that issue is reasonable. So, Im not adjusting my wording when I now say that Im not upholding this part of Mr Ps complaint.
In regard to being provided with confusing information as to the amount that had accrued 
during the payment break, I can see that the Axle Hub statement shows the correct figure of 
£3,476.04 had accrued at the end of the payment break period. Mr P has queried why the 
Axle hub statement then shows the payment break balance as £3,203.05 at the end of April 
2021 and other differing figures thereafter.
Looking at the statement, it appears that the differing amounts are due to the size of the 
recorded payments received during that month, for instance in April 2021 a total payment of 
£709.77 is recorded. The additional £272.99 was initially put towards the payment break 
balance but later appears to have been moved to be used as part payment for the following 
month of May. Ive seen Mr P was making part payments rather than one payment per 
month and it seems that sometimes it would take time for a payment to be assigned to a 
month rather than treated, temporarily, as an overpayment and put towards the balance of 
the payment break. 
However, Ive also seen that when Mr P queried the figures with TAE, it provided clarification 
and confirmation of the outstanding balance, the arrears and the payment break balance. It 
also confirmed the amount overpaid by Mr P. So, I think TAE has provided Mr P with all the 
required information.
And as Mr P intended to repay the payment break balance at the end of the agreement by 
extending the contract, I dont think the confusion as to what he may have owed for the 
payment break would have caused him any financial detriment. He wasnt yet at the point of 
making any arrangements to clear it.
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. This is because looking 
at the management of that account by both TAE and Mr P, I think TAE has overall acted 
fairly when it decided to offer to move Mr Ps overpayment from the payment break balance 
to the arrears balance. Im also satisfied that it provided accurate information to Mr P as 
what he owed and what he had paid under the agreement. Im therefore not going to ask 
TAE to do more than it had already offered Mr P when he had complaint to it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman