DRN-4269242
The complaint
Miss F has complained about the advice given to her by one of Grove Pension Solutions 
Limiteds (Grove) advisors to transfer her defined benefit pension to a personal pension.
Miss F is represented in this matter by a claims management company but for ease of 
reference I will just refer to Miss F.
What happened
On 3 April 2014 the advisor completed a Personal and Financial Details document (Ill refer 
to this as the Fact Find) in order to get information on Miss Fs financial situation and 
objectives. Of note, this recorded that Miss F:
was in a good state of health
had been employed for three months and didnt anticipate any changes in the near future
was £2,000 in arrears with her rent and had other debts (including a payday loan  which 
she mainly repaid the interest on)
was spending £41 a month more than she was earning
had a Court date on 24 April 2014 regarding the rent arrears and shed been told that 
eviction was a possibility if payment wasnt made in full
needed to raise cash to avoid eviction at all costs as she needed to keep a roof over 
her head  not least because she worked from home and her earnings would cease
felt that losing some money from her pension was a better option than being evicted.
The advisor sent Miss F his advice report on 23 April 2014. It said the transfer didnt 
represent good value and Miss Fs pension would suffer as the growth needed by the new 
pension to match the benefits being given up wasnt achievable. It also said Miss Fs 
reaction to this was that the losses she might suffer werent ideal but she couldnt give up 
her home and she had no choice but to release the available cash (by transferring the 
pension). Ultimately, having analysed the options and what Miss F was trying to achieve, the 
advisor recommended that Miss F transfer the defined benefit pension to a personal pension 
so that she could access the funds that would become available.
On 30 April 2014 Miss F signed an Authority to Proceed Declaration. Amongst other things, 
she confirmed that the information contained within the Fact Find and advice report was 
correct and that it formed the basis of the advice given.
Miss F then transferred her pension and received a lump sum cash payment following the 
transfer.
In March 2015 Miss F asked Grove for advice on what she needed to do in order to cash in 
the remainder of her pension. The following month she arranged directly with her pension 
provider to withdraw funds from the pension. She withdrew the remaining funds later in 2015 
and her pension ended at that point.
In February 2023 Miss F complained to Grove. She felt shed received negligent advice and 
had suffered a financial loss as a result. Grove felt Miss Fs complaint didnt reflect its 
records of what happened and didnt therefore uphold it.
Miss F still felt the advice was negligent so she referred her complaint to us. We received it 
on 27 April 2023. Grove didnt think we could consider the complaint as it felt Miss F had 
complained too late.
Our investigator thought we could consider Miss Fs complaint because she had complained 
less than three years before becoming aware that she had cause to complain. But our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because the advice was suitable as 
Miss F had a specific need to stave off eviction and she had no other way of doing this 
without using her pension.
Both Miss F and Grove disagreed with our investigators conclusion. Miss F remained of the 
view that the advice was unsuitable and Grove remained of the view that Miss F had 
complained too late. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction
We cant consider the complaint if Miss F referred it to us more than three years from the 
date on which she became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that she had 
cause for complaint. This time limit doesnt apply if Miss F referred the complaint to Grove 
within the three year period and theres a written record of the complaint being received.
Groves argument is essentially that:
Miss Fs complaint was made because she felt the advice led to her suffering a financial 
loss in respect of the income shell receive in retirement
she should have known about the loss of pension income in 2014 as it was explained to 
her then
she was definitely aware of it in 2015 at the latest  because she knew her defined 
benefit pension would have provided her some retirement and she knew in 2015 that the 
personal pension wouldnt provide any income at all (because it closed after she 
withdrew all the remaining funds)
so it feels Miss F had until October 2018 at the latest to refer a complaint to us.
Groves argument concentrates on Miss Fs awareness of the consequences of the transfer 
ie the loss of the guaranteed benefits provided by the defined benefit pension and the loss of 
retirement benefits provided by the personal pension. But the nub of Miss Fs complaint is 
that the advice in 2014 was unsuitable. So whats important is when Miss F became aware, 
or when she ought reasonably to have become aware, that she had cause for complaint 
about the advice being unsuitable.
The advice report made it clear that Miss F would be worse off in retirement if she 
transferred. It also said that taking further withdrawals from the new pension would inevitably 
reduce the value of the fund and Miss Fs eventual pension. So Miss F actually becoming 
worse off to the extent that there wouldnt be anything left because of the transfer and the 
later withdrawals was exactly what she would have expected to happen  as thats what the 
advisor told her would happen. Im not therefore persuaded that this was, or ought to have been, the trigger point for her to realise that the advice she received in the first place might 
have been unsuitable.
I havent seen and Im not aware of anything else which shows that Miss F knew or ought to 
have known that she had cause for complaint about the advice before February 2020 (ie 
three years before she complained to Grove.
Accordingly, I conclude that Miss F referred her complaint to us in time and that its one I can 
decide.
The advice
Some of what Miss F has said during her complaint doesnt match whats recorded from the 
time of the advice. For example, she said she was vulnerable because of her health but the 
Fact Find records that her health was good. She also said she was unemployed at the time 
and was receiving employment and support allowance but the Fact Find records that shed 
been employed for three months  which is supported by the comments that her job will be 
(ie present tense) impossible if she is evicted. There was reference in the Fact Find to 
Miss F being unemployed and receiving benefits, but that was before the current job. Finally, 
Miss F said the information in the Fact Find about the imminent Court date is incorrect.
If the situation with Miss Fs health, employment and/or eviction threat did change I havent 
seen anything showing that she updated Grove. In the circumstances, I think its more likely 
that the Fact Find, rather than Miss Fs recollection of events roughly nine years later, 
contains the more accurate details of the situation at the time  particularly given the 
declaration Miss F signed under no undue pressure from Grove (ie everything was sent to 
her to read and sign in her own time, rather than having the advisor sitting with he). So 
where theres a discrepancy in the information Ive considered the Fact Find and advice 
report to be the more accurate version of events.
In cases like this I usually decide in the first instance whether or not the advice was suitable. 
If it was suitable I dont uphold the complaint. If it was unsuitable I go on to consider whether 
or not the advice disadvantaged the consumer. So for me to find in Miss Fs favour Id need 
to firstly conclude that the advice was unsuitable and that the advisor should have 
recommended that she remain in her defined benefit pension. Id then need to decide that 
Miss F would have acted differently had she received a recommendation along these lines.
I dont think Miss F would have acted any differently. I cant ignore the information recorded 
in the Fact Find and the advice report. This shows that Miss F was in a desperate position in 
respect of her existing financial situation and her immediate need to raise cash in order to 
stave off eviction. Miss F has argued that if other alternatives been explored and discussed 
she wouldnt have transferred her pension. But the Fact Find shows that other alternatives  
such as restructuring the debts, borrowing from elsewhere, adjusting expenditure  were 
discussed and discounted for various reasons.
Im not persuaded that Miss F had other options to raise the money she needed to prevent 
possible eviction from her home. The Fact Find shows it wasnt possible for her to access 
the benefits from her defined benefit pension early. Miss F said she might have been able to 
receive state or housing benefits but as Miss F was employed at the time its not clear to me 
what benefits she might have been eligible for. And given that shed been in receipt of 
benefits previously I think its likely that Miss F would already have looked into this prior to 
seeking advice on her pension (and if she didnt look into it its not clear why not). Further, as 
the Court hearing was only three weeks after the Fact Find was completed and one day after 
the advice report was issued Im not necessarily persuaded that any benefits could have 
been arranged in time.In any event, its only a possibility that Miss F might have been able to receive some benefits 
ie its not more likely than not. So the balance of probabilities isnt in Miss Fs favour  its 
equally possible that she wouldnt have been entitled to receive anything (or enough to 
satisfy the Court). So even if I concluded that the advice was unsuitable, I think given her 
circumstances at the time that Miss F would most likely would have transferred her pension 
anyway.
Summary
I havent decided whether or not the advice Miss F was suitable. This is because even if I 
decided that it was, I conclude that Miss F would most likely have transferred her pension 
regardless of any advice she received. So she would have been in no worse position to what 
shes in now.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman