DRN-4429211
The complaint
Ms J says Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance, has 
treated her unfairly in relation a loan which paid for a conservatory.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms J contracted to have a conservatory installed. In June 2019 Ms J entered 
into a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Clydesdale to fund the building of the conservatory. 
The total repayable was over £89,000 and the advance which was used to pay for the 
conservatory was £29,000. There was an interest free period for the first twelve months, 
where if the advance was repaid along with certain fees the loan would be settled.
There were delays in the construction of the conservatory with the foundations being 
installed in May 2019. The majority of the work was completed in December 2019 although 
some issues remained in dispute.
Due to the delays and other issues Ms J complained to Clydesdale in July 2019 about the 
finance being activated as the works were not complete. In February 2020 Clydesdale 
responded saying the works were now complete and paying Ms J £100 for her distress and 
inconvenience. In December 2020 Ms J complained again which was responded to in 
January 2021 and Ms J was paid a further £200 for her inconvenience. However Ms J felt 
there was still parts of the works outstanding.
In August 2021 Ms J confirmed that she had paid a local builder unrelated to the installation 
to do some work in the conservatory in relation to flooring and painting. She also said in 
December 2021 that the conservatory installers attended her property recently and had 
completed all the outstanding works other than in relation to a vent which was still in dispute. 
In March 2022 Clydesdale said it was still reviewing Ms Js complaint. In July 2022 she 
chased it for a response. In September 2022 Clydesdale issued another response letter 
explaining it stood by its previous letters regarding Ms Js claim.
In October 2023 our investigator issued an assessment which focussed on the outstanding 
areas of dispute which were regarding the resolving the issue with the ventilation, the 
amount of lending showing on Ms Js credit file impacting her ability to borrow and that 
Clydesdale paid the installer before the works were complete. Ms J has responded to these 
elements of complaint and remains dissatisfied. Accordingly this complaint comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J has described having to deal with substantial personal issues during the course of the 
events here. Im sorry to hear this and have kept these important issues in mind whilst 
considering all that happened here. 
Ms J has made a large number of arguments within the course of this dispute and done so in 
an articulate and clear manner. It is my duty to give reasons for my decision in this dispute 
and to do so in an informal and clear manner. Accordingly I will not address every argument 
or nuance to an argument that that Ms J has raised. However I have considered everything 
she has said and supplied in coming to this decision.
This decision is solely about Clydesdale in relation to whether it did what it should have, and 
whether it treated Ms J fairly in consideration of her dispute with Installers. This decision isnt 
directly about the Installers, who are not within this Services jurisdiction for complaints such 
as this.
For Clydesdale to be liable under Consumer Credit Act 1974 it has to be shown that there 
would be a claim against the supplier (Installers) for breach of contract either in the explicit 
terms of the contract or through implied terms such as those in the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, or that there had been a material misrepresentation which led to Ms J losing out. 
Ms J has referred to paying a separate builder to do the flooring and some painting. She 
accepts shes no record of invoices or contracts for this work and hasnt put forward 
arguments on this matter with as much investment as shes made on other areas of this 
dispute. Ive considered the schedule of works which was part of the contract here for the 
installation service. I note there is no commitment here for the installers to do this work that 
Ms J the separate builder did. So Im not persuaded that this is evidence of any breach or 
misrepresentation that Clydesdale should be responsible for.
In May 2021 Ms J set out in an email to both Clydesdale and this service a number of issues 
which aside from the vent I should comment on for completeness. Most of those listed were 
remedied by the attendance of the installers engineer which Ms J confirmed to be the case 
in December 2021. She points to other issues with the installation that were remedied by her 
builder namely an uneven floor and the finishing to the plastering. Ms J accepts that shes 
no further evidence to submit and doesnt have evidence of the work done by the outside 
builder. Its clear that by the time the installers did attend and fix the other work the work 
done by the outside builder had been completed. So the installers hadnt had an opportunity 
to repair any issues themselves or agree to the outside builder working on their work. Im not 
necessarily persuaded such remedial work was required from what Ive seen. And in any 
event as Ms J accepts she hasnt evidence of this and Clydesdale or the installers didnt 
agree to these works, so I dont think it would be fair for Clydesdale to have to contribute to 
this payment Ms J says she made.
Vent
Ms J has complained about the closing of a vent from her kitchen to what had been originally 
an outside wall but now was within the conservatory. Ive looked at the contract schedule and there is no mention of work to be done to the vent on that wall. There is reference to the 
installation of another vent which our investigator pointed to, and Ms J hasnt rebutted so I 
take it from that the new vent was installed. 
With the contract there is reference to the plastering of the walls within the conservatory 
(including the relevant previously external wall) which has been done. Ive considered the 
photos Ms J has provided and the relevant building regulations around conservatories and 
there is no requirement for provision of more ventilation other than the background 
ventilation and purge ventilation now in place. So Im not persuaded there is anything done 
here which breaks good practice by what the installers have done. And accordingly Im not 
persuaded there is any breach of contract which Clydesdale could be held responsible for.
Credit file
Ms J agreed to fixed sum loan agreement which required her to pay just under £90,000 if the 
loan was paid over its full term. This loan had an optional facility to repay the advance within 
twelve months interest free which Ms J utilised. Ive not seen anything persuasive to show 
Clydesdale did anything wrong in its reporting of this loan considering its nature.
Ms J has said that the presence of this loan impacted her ability to re-mortgage. Im not 
necessarily persuaded this is the case but even if it was it doesnt follow that reporting this 
loan was in itself a failing. Because clearly she did take the loan on the terms offered. And 
part of reporting on credit files is not only the outstanding balance of credit but also the full 
amount of credit available. Accordingly on all lending the total amount of available credit (or 
in other words the credit limits) is reported. And I can see Ms J had a number of other credit 
facilities and other reported issues which may impact lending decisions. So Im not 
persuaded that either there was a failing in the reporting or this loan or that it unfairly 
impacted further lending decisions.
The advance to the installers
Ms J makes many arguments on this issue. Nevertheless there is no requirement on 
Clydesdale as to when it makes payment to the installers. It has a free hand to do so. This 
could be because it knows in such situations it has joint and severable liability to the 
installers in any event. So although I appreciate Ms Js logic regarding ensuring the installers 
do a proper job and withholding payment until she was satisfied it had done so, the reality of 
the situation is she could pursue a claim against Clydesdale at any point once the contract 
and finance were agreed for the installation. So Clydesdale could pay the installers at any 
point and did choose to do so. In any event Clydesdale also points to Ms J signing a 
satisfaction note which Ive seen. So Im not persuaded Clydesdale as done anything which 
requires further action here.
I appreciate Ms J is very dissatisfied with what happened here. I should note that within the 
terms Ms J agreed to the Installers make clear that in the event of weather and other factors 
outside its control it will provide its services as soon as reasonably possible. It is of note 
that the vast majority of the work was completed prior to the onset of the Pandemic. But it is 
also clear that after the onset of the pandemic there were delays. But Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the installers had breached its agreed term of providing the service within a reasonable period of time in such circumstances. Similarly I note that within 
the correspondence Ms J points to dealing with serious and substantial issues extraneous to 
the conservatory, which as Ive said Im sorry to hear about. However considering all that we 
know, and that Ms J explained in December 2021 that all the work was completed save her 
complaint about the ventilation, Im not persuaded Clydesdale needs to do more than what 
has been done here already, including the payments it has already made.
I note Ms J has suggested she wishes to talk about this case to the media and that shes 
considered whether she can take legal action. It is my generic advice that any party 
considering taking legal action against any other party should first source independent legal 
advice at their own cost before embarking on such legal action so that they are advised and 
informed in making their decisions in that regard. And as for her request for advice on the 
position with the media it is not for this service to give consumers or businesses advice on 
such matters. This service is an impartial service.
I appreciate this isnt the decision which Ms J wishes to read. Nevertheless Im not 
persuaded that Clydesdale, having considered her position repeatedly and having provided 
her redress in relation to the customer service received, has anything further to do in this 
matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance. It has nothing further to do in this 
regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman