DRN-2596596
The complaint
Ms D complains that Unum Ltd declined her income protection claim again, after she 
provided further evidence. 
What happened
Ms D is a beneficiary of her employers income protection scheme, provided by Unum. She 
previously made a claim against the policy due to treatment for cancer. And this claim was 
terminated by Unum in January 2020. 
Ms D later provided further medical evidence about her claim to Unum, and it agreed to 
consider it. 
A report from Ms Ds consultant oncologist  Dr K  said she had been experiencing low 
mood and anxiety, and had been given anti-depressant medication by her GP. And Dr K said 
Ms Ds cancer and the treatment shed been having for it, had significantly impacted her 
mental health.
Ms D also provided a report from her psychotherapist  Dr C. Dr C said she had previously 
had sessions with Ms D in 2017  2018. And that Ms D had begun seeing her again in July 
2019 to deal with her cancer related anxieties. The report refers to weekly sessions and Ms 
D taking a maximum dose of an anti-depressant prescribed by her GP. Dr C also described 
Ms Ds symptoms as including being very prone to low moods and stress, highly anxious 
and having panic attacks. However Dr C referred to some improvements in the way Ms D 
was feeling by January 2020. 
Unum said it had reviewed the new evidence, but didnt think it showed Ms D was so 
restricted by her mental health that she was unable to perform her occupation. And it said it 
thought Dr Ks report was written too long after it had ended the claim, to provide an 
understanding of the medical situation at the time. So it maintained its decision to terminate 
the claim and said it wasnt prepared to consider any further evidence. 
Unum said it had decided to treat Ms Ds request for it to review her claim, in line with its 
complaint handling procedure. And it provided Ms D with a final response letter, and referral 
rights to this service. 
Following Unums response, Ms D brought her case to us. An investigator here looked into 
what had happened and said she didnt think Unum had acted unfairly, in deciding not to 
reinstate the claim. She said this was because she didnt think the new medical evidence 
showed Ms D was unable to perform her occupation due to her mental health. 
Unum made no further comments on the investigators view. However, Ms D disagreed and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Unum has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, I dont think Unum has acted unfairly. And Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear Ms Ds cancer has returned. I cant imagine how difficult this 
must be for her. I must also keep in mind that this further diagnosis was not known at the 
time Unum originally terminated the claim, or when it reviewed it. 
In response to the investigators view, Ms D has raised a number of points, the majority of 
which relate to Unums original decision to decline the claim. Ms D previously brought a 
complaint about Unums original termination of her claim to this service. And a view on this 
was issued in July 2020. So I wont be revisiting any of the matters covered in that 
complaint. This decision will focus on the events related to Unums review of the claim 
following Ms Ds new evidence, and its response in September 2020.  
Ive considered what Ms D has said about the way Unum could have re-assessed her claim, 
and the further reports it could have requested. However, as Unum had previously 
terminated her claim, in asking it to revisit its decision, its for Ms D to provide medical 
evidence which shows she continued to be incapacitated. Unum is expected to assess the 
medical evidence presented to it, and I can see that it has done this in providing its 
comments on the reports from Dr K and Dr C. 
Unum said it didnt think these reports supported that Ms D was so restricted by her mental 
health, that she was unable to perform her occupation. And it said it thought Dr Ks report in 
August 2020, was written too long after the claim had ended, to provide an understanding of 
the medical situation in January 2020. And that it was more a commentary on Ms Ds health 
at the time it was written. I think Unums stance here is reasonable, as although Dr K has 
said cancer had a significant impact on Ms Ds mental health, his report doesnt provide an 
insight into how her symptoms would have impacted her work capabilities, specifically 
around January 2020, when the claim was ended. 
Im also insufficiently persuaded by Dr Cs report. This provides commentary relating to 
January 2020, but indicated some signs of improvement in the way Ms D was feeling around 
that time. And Dr C also doesnt give details of how Ms Ds symptoms would have prevented 
her from performing the material and substantial duties of her occupation. And because of 
this, I dont think Unum has acted unfairly in maintaining its decision to decline the claim. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to Ms D, I dont think 
Unum has done anything wrong. And so it would be unreasonable of me to direct it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman