DRN-3065565
The complaint
Mr R complains that PSA Finance UK Limited irresponsibly gave him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford.   
What happened
In March 2013, Mr R acquired a used car from a dealership using a conditional sale 
agreement financed by PSA. The cash price of the car was £9,995. Mr R paid a deposit of 
£1,000. Mr R was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £232.37, with a final payment 
of £631.37. The total repayable was around £15,300.  
Mr R fell into repayment difficulty and the car was eventually sold by PSA. Mr R complained 
to PSA to say that the agreement was unaffordable and adequate checks werent completed 
before approving the finance. He says he was initially declined for finance by PSA but was 
then later approved and the details he provided for the two applications are inconsistent. He 
says this should have prompted PSA to not lend to him. 
Mr R says at the time of taking out the finance hed not been in employment for very long 
after a period of claiming benefits. He says he was also repaying bailiffs and court fees and 
had payday loans outstanding.
PSA didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it didnt have a record of a declined application 
and Mr Rs agreement was auto-accepted by its system as it was deemed affordable. It 
said their credit checks didnt show that Mr R had any defaults or County Court Judgements 
and that Mr R had signed a declaration at the point of application to confirm that he thought 
the repayments were affordable to him. 
One of our ombudsman issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 9 July 2021. He 
was of the view the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he concluded that:
PSA were required to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before granting credit to Mr R. 
Given the size of the overall borrowing, the term and the size of the repayments, he 
didnt think PSA had completed appropriate affordability checks. This was because 
PSA had no understanding of what Mr Rs income was. It hadnt asked for this or 
attempted to verify it in any way. Further, PSA hadnt sought to understand what 
Mr Rs regular committed expenditure was likely to be. Without this information, the 
ombudsman didnt think PSA could reasonably establish that the agreement was 
affordable. 
As proportionate checks werent completed, the ombudsman considered what PSA 
would most likely have found if it had carried out appropriate affordability checks. 
Mr R had evidenced that his income at the time was around £1,000 per month. Once 
his regular committed monthly expenditure and the repayments towards the PSA 
agreement were taken into consideration, the ombudsman concluded that the finance 
was unaffordable and unsustainable, and PSA would most likely have found this too 
had it completed proportionate affordability checks. 
The ombudsman didnt think it was necessary to make a finding about whether there 
were inconsistencies in the two applications Mr R had submitted. This is because he 
was satisfied that any reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have 
uncovered any irregularities if there had been any.
To put things right he thought PSA should end the agreement with nothing further to 
pay and refund all the payments Mr R had made  including his deposit  less a 
reasonable charge for fair usage. He said this should be £150 per month that Mr R 
was in possession of the car, giving a total of £7,200 that PSA could retain. Anything 
that Mr R had paid in excess of this amount should be refunded to him along with 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Lastly, he said PSA should remove any adverse information it had recorded on his 
credit file in relation to this agreement. 
Neither Mr R nor PSA had any further comments or evidence to provide following the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. Im satisfied that PSA didnt complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before granting Mr Rs conditional sale agreement. Had it completed 
proportionate checks Im persuaded its likely it would have discovered the agreement wasnt 
affordable or sustainable for Mr R. For that reason, I dont think PSA made a fair lending 
decision and should put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK Limited to:
End the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Refund everything Mr R has paid, including his deposit, less £7,200 for his fair use of 
the car. If Mr R has paid more than £7,200 PSA should add 8% simple interest per 
year on each overpayment he made from the date of each overpayment to the date 
of settlement.
Remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Rs credit file relating to this 
agreement. 
If PSA considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it should 
provide Mr R with a certificate showing how much its taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount, should he be eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman