DRN-4250288
The complaint
Miss R complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) irresponsibly granted her a 
hire purchase agreement that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In December 2021 Miss R acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. Miss R was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £385.76 followed by one 
final payment of £386.76. The total amount repayable under the agreement was £27,912.60. 
Miss R part-exchanged her existing vehicle for £7000. Miss R believes MotoNovo failed to 
complete adequate affordability checks. Miss R says that if it had it wouldve been clear that 
the agreement wasnt affordable.
MotoNovo disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate creditworthiness assessment which 
relied on the information supplied by Miss R, and the information obtained via credit 
reference agencies. It stated that Miss R had signed a declaration confirming the agreement 
was affordable.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
MotoNovos checks werent proportionate and that had it completed proportionate checks it 
would have likely found the agreement was unaffordable for Miss R. 
Miss R agreed, but MotoNovo disagreed. It accepted that the finance shouldnt have been 
approved, but it felt that the compensation recommended by the Investigator was unfair. It 
felt the redress went beyond putting Miss R back in the correct position and caused an unfair 
loss to MotoNovo. It didnt feel that the part-exchange deposit should form any part of the 
redress as the sale of the car had meant MotoNovo was left without the asset to recoup its 
losses. It felt the proposed redress would place Miss R in a position of betterment. It asked 
for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the matter.
Our Investigator reconsidered their findings. They acknowledged that from the sale of the 
vehicle Miss R had received £737.26 more than the agreement amount being settled. Our 
Investigator thought that it would therefore be fairer to reduce the proposed refund by 
£737.26 as that put Miss R as close to the position she would have been in were it not for 
MotoNovo approving the finance.
Miss R accepted this outcome. MotoNovo failed to respond by the deadline provided, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Rs complaint. MotoNovo needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as per the rules set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). In practice, what this means is that MotoNovo needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Miss 
R before providing it.
MotoNovo was required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Miss Rs ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate (see CONC 5.2A). What is considered proportionate will vary depending on 
the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the term of the agreement (CONC 5.2A.20 R), and the consumers 
specific circumstances.
Our Investigator found that the checks MotoNovo carried out were not proportionate. I agree 
 given the size of the lending, the monthly repayments, the length of agreement, and the 
amount of credit commitments shown on Miss Rs credit file. I think it would have been 
proportionate for MotoNovo to have verified Miss Rs expenditure. This would have included 
costs such as food, petrol, utilities and housing. 
I dont think MotoNovo necessarily needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of 
anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss Rs 
statements from the three months leading up to the application. These show that 
proportionate checks would have most likely revealed Miss R was unable to sustainably 
afford the repayments owed under the agreement. So, it follows that I think MotoNovo did 
not make a fair lending decision.
MotoNovo have accepted the agreement should not have been approved. So, the issue now 
appears to be solely how best to put things right. Therefore, my decision will focus on 
whether the redress suggested by our Investigator is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The central issue is the refund of the part-exchange deposit. In taking out the finance Miss R 
part-exchanged her existing vehicle for £7,000 (with a settlement amount of £2,234).  When 
Miss R struggled to maintain the payments for her agreement, she decided to sell the vehicle 
to another dealership rather than voluntarily surrender the vehicle with MotoNovo. In 
exchange the dealership settled her agreement with MotoNovo in full and paid her an 
additional £737.26 directly. MotoNovo says that in this circumstance a refund of the original 
part-exchange would place Miss R in a position of betterment.
Ive thought about this carefully and cant agree. Miss R no longer has the car that was 
originally part-exchanged, she also no longer has the vehicle financed by MotoNovo. Shes 
only left with £737.26 in cash. But for MotoNovos actions she would likely still have her 
original vehicle or would have been able to part-exchange it for another vehicle that was 
affordable for her circumstances.
It isnt fair or reasonable for Miss R to no longer have this asset (or its equivalent monetary 
value) due to MotoNovos actions. Miss R is currently in a worse position than before the 
agreement was taken out. By directing MotoNovo to refund this deposit Im attempting to put 
Miss R, as close as possible, back in the position she wouldve been in were it not for the 
finance being unfairly approved.MotoNovos other considerations around this point amount to the idea that it will be unable to 
offset its own losses. As the way the finance ended means it no longer is in possession of 
the vehicle and so it will incur additional costs as a result. Ive thought about this too, but Im 
not persuaded that any additional cost for MotoNovo should mean Miss R should be 
disadvantaged as a result. Ultimately the finance should not have been approved and the 
cost of resolving the matter fairly for Miss R is now the responsibility of MotoNovo.
I do agree however that it would be unfair for Miss R to receive the full refund amount back 
when shes benefitted from an additional £737.26 when selling the vehicle. So, the deposit 
refund should reflect this and be reduced by that amount.
Putting things right
As I dont think MotoNovo ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Miss R has already settled the 
agreement through the sale of the vehicle, having also made monthly repayments for the 
time she had use of and access to the vehicle. Given Miss R did have use of the car until 
March 2023, I think it's fair that she pays for that use. I dont think that the monthly 
repayments under the agreement are a fair reflection of what fair usage for the vehicle ought 
to be. This is because a large proportion of the repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage ought to be. However, in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on 
the agreement, the likely use Miss R had of the car and the costs she would likely have 
incurred to stay mobile if shed never entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a fair 
amount Miss R should pay is £225 for each month she had use of the vehicle, up to the point 
she sold it and settled the agreement in March 2023.
Miss R also part-exchanged her existing vehicle when taking out the finance with MotoNovo, 
and the invoice shows the part-exchange was £7,000, including a settlement amount of 
£2,234. For the reasons already explained Miss R should receive this amount back, less the 
settlement amount and the additional £737.26 she received from the sale.
To put things right MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
Refund £4,028.74 of the deposit, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
Refund all the payments Miss R made, less £225 a month for each month Miss R 
had use of the vehicle.
oIf Miss R has paid more than the fair usage figure, MotoNovo should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or:
oIf Miss R has paid less than the fair usage figure, MotoNovo should arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once MotoNovo has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Miss Rs credit file regarding this agreement.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires MotoNovo to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. MotoNovo must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to put things 
right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman