DRN-3715643
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him when he 
could not afford it. 
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a table with brief details of the approved loans.
Loan Amount 
borrowedStart Date End Date Repayment 
AmountLoan 
Term
WeeksLive 
weeks
1 £200.00 02/08/2019 05/03/2020 £10.00 33 31
2 £200.00 27/11/2019 26/02/2020 £10.00 34 13
Four month gap
3 £400.00 15/07/2020 14/12/2020 £20.00 34 22
4 £200.00 29/10/2020 04/02/2021 £10.00 34 14
After Mr W had complained, Morses issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it said it 
did not uphold his complaint. So, through his representative, Mr W referred his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She had noticed the four month gap 
between loans 2 and 3. That can make a difference as to how wed expect a lender to 
approach the customer applying for loans.  Our adjudicator thought that although she did 
think that additional details relating to Mr Ws financial situation ought to have been reviewed 
by Morses before lending for the later loans as Mr W did not send us any details of his 
finances for the years covering loans 3 and 4 then our adjudicator had no information on 
which to come to an opinion. So, she did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W responded to say that he does not give out his bank details to anyone and is not happy 
doing that. Mr W explained that he told the person/s giving me the loans that I was in debt 
and they did not verify my debt, the checks were also very basic. The unresolved complaint 
was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr 
Ws income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
Morses has sent to us details of the information it gathered from Mr W at the time he was 
applying for the loans. For loans early in the lending chain, then Id expect proportionate 
checks to mean that Morses could rely on information it gathered from Mr W. And at loan 1 it 
carried out a credit check the results of which I have reviewed. 
In that credit check I can see that Mr W did have other debt and had historic records of 
defaulted accounts but they were at least two years old, and one appears to have been five 
years before Mr W applied for loan 1. And so that sort of adverse payment record, on its 
own, would not be enough to lead me to think that Morses ought to have declined the loan 
applications. 
The credit check results showed me that Mr W had a debt value of about £2,000 across all 
his accounts. He had about nine active accounts which would have included regular credit 
like bank accounts, and credit cards. So thats not a particularly high number.
And this entry gives a useful insight into what Mr Ws commitments included   Total 
monthly payments on all accounts excluding mortgages - which are currently active £65So, even if Morses had added this monthly repay of £65 into Mr Ws weekly commitment list 
(which may already have been included) still I think that the disposable income left to Mr W 
each week would have shown that Mr W could afford loans 1 and 2. 
The significance of the four month gap after Mr W had repaid loan 2 is that it demonstrates 
that Mr W likely was using the cash from Morses to plug a temporary cash flow gap and less 
likely to indicate that Mr W was reliant on the credit. So I have factored that into my review of 
the complaint.
Here it seems that Mr W informed Morses what his income and expenditure was on a weekly 
basis and I have duplicated what Morses has sent to us:
LOAN INCOME EXPENDITURE DISPOSABLE 
INCOME
1 £276.47 £179.50 £96.97
2 £282.56 £192.75 £89.81
3 £313.83 £173.89 £139.94
4 £336.36 £209.40 £126.96
So, I do think that the loans looked to have been affordable. 
It may be that for loan 4, which was applied for when loan 3 was still open, then additional 
checks ought to have been made by Morses at that point. And I say this because loan 4 was 
going to overlap with loan 3 and it was the fourth loan hed applied for. But as we do not 
have any information from Mr W about his finances during that second part of the lending 
period then Im not able to see what it is that Morses may have found if it had made further 
enquiries. 
I understand that Mr W may have been reluctant to send us bank statements. Mr Ws 
income appeared to increase for loan 4 and as his disposable income was given as just 
under £127 a week then loan 4 looked affordable when the repayments were going to be 
£20 a week for a short time followed by £10 a week until loan 4 was paid off. 
Morses has sent to us a copy of Mr Ws repayment records for the loans and I do not 
consider that they showed that Mr W was struggling to repay. In fact, it seems that he repaid 
most of the loans early. And by the time loan 3 was repaid in July 2020 then he had only one 
loan left to repay at £10 a week. Loan 4 was repaid ten weeks earlier than scheduled. 
For all the above reasons I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman