DRN-2668041
The complaint
Mr H complains Santander UK Plc blocked access to his account and said they would close 
it if he didnt provide information needed to comply with anti-money laundering legislation. 
What happened
Mr H has a current account with Santander. In April 2020 Santander wrote to him saying that 
to meet UK legal and regulatory obligations, they needed to ensure the personal information 
they held for him was up to date. They asked him to either update it online, visit a branch, or 
alternatively, complete a form and scan it along with the required documents.
In May, having not received the information needed, Santander wrote to Mr H again, but this 
time explained that if it was not provided within 30 days, access to his account would be 
blocked. This would prevent him from withdrawing money or making payments. There was 
some further back and forth between Mr H and Santander over the following months, with 
new deadlines being set, and a number of extensions granted, and in June, his account was 
blocked. 
Mr H felt it was unreasonable for Santander to chase this information, so he complained. He 
said he suffered from a health condition, and was shielding based on government advice. He 
said hed tried to comply with Santanders requests by phone, but gave up after being kept 
on hold for over an hour on three occasions. And he said he couldnt upload the documents 
online, so he asked Santander to agree to an open-ended extension to the deadline. 
Santander wrote to Mr H on a number of occasions following his complaint, and said they 
would extend the deadline to mid-August before choosing to close his account. But they said 
they couldnt agree to an open-ended extension as it was unclear when Covid-19 restrictions 
would be lifted. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
While the complaint was with us, Santander wrote to Mr H again, and set a new deadline for 
closure of September 2020, and explained his account was blocked. 
The investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and thought the new September deadline 
Santander granted was reasonable, as announcements had now been made to lift 
restrictions for those shielding. But he didnt think Santander had handled the situation 
particularly well. So he recommended they pay Mr H £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr H accepted the investigators findings, but Santander disagreed. They felt Mr H could 
have done more to provide what was required earlier by either using his wifes smartphone 
to upload the documents, or having someone else provide them for him. So, as no 
agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 where I said the following:
The letters sent to Mr H explained that Santander required him to send in 
additional documents to meet its UK legal and regulatory obligations. The first 
letter sent in April 2020 requested Mr H upload or send in up to date information. 
And the second letter sent in May explained that he had 30 days to return the 
required information, or Santander would block access to his account.
Banks routinely check that the information they hold about their customers is up to 
date  and that might mean customers need to provide, for example, proof of 
address or updated identification documents. This is not unusual. The implications 
for not ensuring this information is up to date can be significant. So its not unusual 
for banks to explain that they may block access or, ultimately, close a customers 
account if they do not comply with these requests. Santanders terms and 
conditions also state:
We may also close your account at any time without notice where we are aware 
that keeping your account open would be unlawful or cause us to be in breach of 
any of our legal or regulatory requirements.
Im satisfied it was fair for Santander to request this information in April and May. 
And I think it was reasonable of them to explain to Mr H that his account could be 
blocked if their requests werent complied with.
Following Mr Hs complaint, Santander wrote to Mr H in June saying hed failed to 
meet the previous deadline, and theyd chosen to restrict his account; explaining 
that his account would be closed in July if the information wasnt received. But they 
then wrote to him again two days later (having reviewed his complaint) and agreed 
to extend the closure deadline to August due to his health concerns. They also said 
they would call him at the end of July to see how things were. I think this was a fair 
approach, and showed flexibility on Santanders part, having taken Mr Hs personal 
circumstances into account.
On 17 July Santander wrote to Mr H again, saying that as he had not provided the 
information it had requested, it had blocked access to his account, and said it would 
close on 17 September 2020 if he failed to provide the information needed. They 
also called him on 31 July 2020 as agreed, but he wasnt available to take the call.
Mr H upon realising his account had been blocked, worriedly contacted our service 
on 10 had gone against what it had agreed, and had now blocked his dont think this 
was accurate.
Having reviewed all of the correspondence sent by Santander, at no point 
throughout the June and July correspondence, did they agree to lift the block that 
was already in place. I appreciate there was some confusion with the deadline 
dates given, as Mr H wouldve received several letters by this point. But the mid-
August extension was in relation to the potential closing of Mr Hs account and not 
the blocks placed on it. So despite the confusion, I dont think Santander were 
wrong in having a block placed on Mr Hs account at this time.
Mr H has maintained throughout that a one-month extension didnt cater for the 
position he was in, given he was shielding and there was no clear deadline on 
when restrictions would be lifted. And I can see his point. I appreciate, given Mr 
Hs age and health, providing these documents to Santander was always going to 
be difficult in light of the restrictions in place during the pandemic.
But equally, Santander was required to obtain this information to meet its UK legal 
and regulatory obligations. They gave several extensions to the deadlines for Mr H, 
and agreed to keep his account open for up to five months after its initial request for 
information. I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect Santander to allow an indefinite extension. So I think the approach they took, of reviewing the 
position each month, and providing Mr H with further extensions, was fair.
I can also see that when he realised the blocks were placed on his account in 
August, he was able to make contact with Santander, receive a link via email to 
upload his documents, and have full access to his account restored within a matter 
of days. So based on this, I think its likely Mr H couldve provided the information 
Santander needed when it was initially requested in April, and in doing so, 
prevented much of the inconvenience that followed.
I appreciate that the Covid-19 restrictions in place at the time seem to have made 
things difficult for Mr H. But equally, I think Santander have been flexible in their 
approach to trying to obtain the information they needed, and allowed several 
extensions to deadlines in order to assist Mr H. And I think this was the m to take. 
So I wont be instructing them to do anything further.
Santander responded to my provisional decision to say they had no further comments to 
make. But Mr H did not respond before the deadline given. 
As the deadline for responses has now passed, Im ready to issue my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any further arguments in response to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from my earlier findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman