DRN-3214316
The complaint
Mrs S complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a payment she made using her Lloyds Bank 
debit card. She says the goods werent delivered to her. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs S bought goods costing her £179 through a retailer Ill refer to as J. She 
paid using her debit card.
Mrs S says the goods werent delivered. She followed this up with the seller, who rejected 
her claim of non-delivery of the item. Mrs S maintained that the items werent delivered. 
Mrs S took the matter up with Lloyds, which made a chargeback request. Chargeback is a 
means of resolving certain card payment disputes between cardholders and merchants and 
which is run by the card scheme concerned  in this case Visa. Lloyds told Mrs S it had 
refunded her account temporarily, pending the outcome of its investigation. 
In October 2020, Lloyds advised Mrs S the chargeback claim wasnt successful. It said the 
merchant (J) had provided proof of delivery of the goods in question, so it wouldnt be 
possible to re-claim the payment. Lloyds also said theyd be taking back the temporary 
refund it provided to Mrs S whilst the investigation was on-going. 
In November 2020 Mrs S complained to Lloyds about this because she didnt agree that the 
item had been delivered. 
Lloyds provided its final response to Mrs S on 27 January 2021. It acknowledged that it 
hadnt handled the chargeback request as well as it might have done and hadnt got back to 
Mrs S sooner. It offered £50 in recognition of that, but wouldnt refund the payment because 
it had no chance of re-claiming the payment given the evidence provided by J. 
Mrs S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
was satisfied however that, in attempting the chargeback, Lloyds had done what it could to 
try and resolve the issue between Mrs S and J, but had been unable to obtain a refund. 
Overall, she thought Lloyds offer was reasonable. Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs S has been left out of pocket through no fault of her own, I am deciding a 
complaint about Lloyds and therefore I need to consider whether it did something wrong. 
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
When a person makes a payment for goods and services using a debit card, their bank may 
be able to help them in limited circumstances if they havent received what theyve paid for. 
The bank can raise a dispute (usually known as a chargeback) with the bank which 
accepted the card payment.
A chargeback isnt something a consumer can demand their bank attempt but when faced 
with a person requesting assistance with a disputed card transaction I would expect the bank 
to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do so if there was a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding. 
As Ive suggested above, chargebacks are not always successful. There are rules which 
must be followed for chargebacks, and these are set by the card networks. Chargebacks can 
be opposed (defended) by the recipient bank or merchant. Banks have the option to take a 
claim to arbitration, but Id only expect them to do so if they felt the evidence presented by 
the merchant wasnt sufficient to reject the claim. 
In this case Lloyds were satisfied with the evidence provided by the merchants bank and 
didnt feel Mrs Ss case had a reasonable chance of succeeding. The merchants bank 
provided evidence from both J and the delivery company used to send the parcel. The 
merchants bank was able to show that the goods had been sent to Mrs Ss address. I 
acknowledge of course that Mrs S says she didnt receive them, and the implication is that 
they were delivered to the wrong address and signed for by someone who wasnt entitled to 
them. That isnt however enough to entitle Mrs S to a refund through Lloyds.
I make no comment on whether or not the goods were in fact delivered to Mrs S. I need to 
consider if Lloyds acted unreasonably in not pursuing the chargeback further. In the 
circumstances, I dont believe that I can fairly conclude Lloyds acted unreasonably on the 
basis of the evidence provided by the merchants bank, and so I cant fairly ask that Lloyds 
should refund the payment Mrs S made for the goods. 
I understand that Mrs S is unhappy that she hasnt been able to recover her money. But 
taking everything into account, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or made any error in 
the chargeback, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman