DRN-3625813
The complaint
Mr L complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) who declined to carry out any 
further work under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr L held a BG home emergency policy for over 30 years. In May 2021, Mr L booked to 
have an annual service. In preparation for the service Mr L decided to turn on the heating 
system and found that one of the radiators wasnt warming up as it should. The engineer 
who attended diagnosed a faulty valve and told Mr L that a replacement would be ordered. 
Mr L contacted BG when he hadnt heard anything, once it had been established that there 
had been no record of any replacement part being ordered. It sent another engineer, who 
diagnosed that the there was a blockage in the pipe that fed the radiator. The engineer told 
Mr L that blockages werent covered under the policy. And if he wished to, Mr L could pay 
privately for the blockage to be dealt with. A little later BG sent a quote to Mr L, which 
prompted him to look at the policy terms and conditions.
Mr L contacted BG as he believed that it had interpreted the policy wording incorrectly, as he 
felt that BG hadnt previously told him about any issue before, that required repairing, 
improvements or a power flush. So, Mr L raised a complaint. 
In its final response, BG said that it had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. In 
that, it asserted that Mr L had been advised previously, that there was chargeable work. 
Namely blockages/debris in the system that would need to be removed before BG was able 
to carry out any further work under the policy. It also said that there had been delays in 
corresponding to his complaint and for the inconvenience caused, it offered and paid £30 
compensation.
Mr L was given his referral rights and he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her view was 
that BG had correctly applied the terms and conditions of the policy. She said that from the 
evidence, there were previous occasions where BG had advised Mr L that his system would 
need a power flush and no evidence to show that Mr L had acted on this advice. She 
explained that on her review of the service that BG had provided to Mr L, this fell well below 
its usual standard and for this, she recommended BG pay Mr L a further £75 compensation 
for the delay, misinformation and inconvenience caused. 
BG accepted the view, Mr L did not. He maintained that BG had never advised him to carry 
out additional work to retain full cover. If it had, he would have done so as he has previously 
acted on other work that BG advised him to carry out. So, he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 28 June 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 26 
July 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr L has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
The basis of Mr Ls complaint, is that BG failed to inform him previously that he would need 
to carry out work on his system, in order to maintain cover. So, Ive taken this as the starting 
point in my assessment which is based on all the evidence that I have been provided with. 
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions to see what BG was required to do under 
the policy. The policy provides that: Where weve told you that an improvement is 
necessary, we may not continue to make repairs on that part of your boiler, appliance or 
system unless the work has been carried out. So, the first obligation is for BG to have told 
Mr L something about his system that was required to be fixed or treated before BG were 
able to continue to maintain the cover. 
Mr L said that at no time was he informed by BG that unless he carried out additional work 
on his system, the cover would be restricted. And he supports this with his previous actions, 
in that when BG told him to carry out work, he had done so. For example, installing a filter. 
Where there is a dispute, we look at the evidence to see what is persuasive on the balance 
of probabilities. In this complaint the best evidence that I have, is from the checklists and 
contact notes. The checklists are the forms that are left with the customer following a visit 
from an engineer. The engineer is tasked to take a contemporaneous note of what he did 
and what he saw and advised when he visited. 
Mr L was asked to provide copies of any checklists that he was given by any of the 
engineers who attended his home. Mr L provided three checklists. 
BG provided notes going back to 2016. It said these notes detailed what was done on the 
visit and what was advised. Having reviewed those notes and the checklists. I have read that 
in 2019, Mr L was advised that a power flush was needed for his system. But apart from that, 
there is no other information contained on the checklist or contact notes that confirms that Mr 
L was advised/told that cover would be restricted unless he carried out the power flush. 
In addition, BG said that Mr L system wasnt a system that a power flush could be carried out 
on. Its senior engineer said: So the system is microbore therefore we cannot get enough 
water through this small bore pipe to effectively flush it correctly so giving this advice would 
be poor, the engineer who recommended this in 2019 should not have done so was a mistake on his behalf. From this evidence, I think that BG would not have been able to carry 
out a power flush on a system that could never have a power flush completed on it. So, Ive 
looked to see if Mr L was advised by BG to undertake alternative work such as replacing 
pipework to remove the blockage. But I cant see that any alternative work advice, was given 
to Mr L either.
I also asked BG specifically, if it could provide any evidence to show that it had advised Mr L 
to carry out a different method of work to remove the blockage. BG did not respond to this 
request. 
Consequently, as the policy provides that BG has to have told Mr L to carry out remedial 
work on his system, so that cover is not restricted, I cant agree that BG had specifically told 
Mr L to carry out additional work (suitable for his system). And I cant agree that BG told Mr L 
that cover would be restricted it he didnt complete the work. 
Further, I dont think its fair or reasonable for BG to maintain that it had told  Mr L that 
remedial work such as a power flush had to be carried out, when the job was work that could 
never have been carried out on Mr Ls system, in the first place. But, if BG are able to 
provide evidence to show that it did tell Mr L that additional work was required, then I will 
consider it. 
I have next considered the entries on the contact notes that Mr L declined a system 
upgrade. These entries do not correspond with the job history provided. Nor has BG given 
me any further details about what the declined system upgrade relates to. So again, it is 
difficult to agree that the declining of a system upgrade amounts to BG having told Mr L that 
cover would be restricted, if he didnt carry out additional work. 
I accept that the policy doesnt provide cover for damage caused by debris in the system:
Whats not covered: Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris, if weve told you 
before that you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Power flush, or a 
similar process, but you havent done so.  However, the term is in two parts. The first 
confirms that blockages arent covered, but the second confirms that BG has to have told the 
customer that work would need to be conducted before cover is maintained. I have not seen 
any evidence to support that BG had told Mr L that his cover would be restricted. So, I dont 
think BG has complied with the second part of the term. 
Finally, I asked Mr L what he would have done had he been advised by BG that his cover 
would be restricted if work wasnt carried out as BG had specified. He said that he wouldve 
either moved his policy to a lower priced plan within BG, that covered his boiler rather than 
the entire system. Or that he would have discussed this fully with BG and decide if he ought 
to replace the entire system or repair the damaged part  either with BG or another provider. 
So, Im persuaded that had BG told Mr L that cover wouldve been restricted, then Mr L 
would have done something about it. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I don think BG told Mr L that his cover would be 
restricted, if he didnt follow its recommendation. I also think that BG had incorrectly advised 
Mr L of work that could never have been carried out by on his system. So, to put matters 
right, I intend to ask BG to reassess its decision, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy, such as replacing the blocked pipe. I also think that the decision wouldve provided 
Mr L with a level of inconvenience, which BG should recognise. I think its fair for BG to pay 
£100 compensation, for the trouble and upset caused. 
Responses to my provisional decisionMr L said that he was very pleased, grateful and relieved with the provisional decision. He 
felt that it correctly identified the main issue which was whether or not BG had clearly told 
him that a problem needed to be addressed, in order to maintain cover. 
BG said that it wasnt sure what other advice it could give. It accepted that Mr L had 
previously followed its advice to add a filter. It also said that in 2019 it advised a power flush. 
But accepted that the power flush was a procedure that could not have been carried out on 
Mr Ls system. It also said that sludge in the system would not be covered. 
Whilst I accept that sludge in a system would not be covered under the policy terms, the 
terms also said that BG has to have told the customer that work would need to be 
conducted, otherwise cover would not be maintained. BG havent provided evidence to show 
that it told Mr L that his cover would be restricted.  
In addition, the power flush that it recommended was a procedure that BG confirmed that Mr 
Ls system would never have been able to have been carried out. And I havent seen any 
evidence from BG that it told Mr L what could be carried out on his system to ensure cover 
was maintained. So, Im satisfied that BG hasnt complied with the policy terms.
Putting things right
Taking all of this into consideration and to put matters right, BG should reassess its decision, 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, such as replacing the blocked pipe. BG 
should contact Mr L to arrange for this work to be carried out. I also think that Mr L would 
have suffered with a level of inconvenience, which BG should recognise. I think its fair for 
BG to pay £100 compensation, for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited to reconsider its decision in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and to replace the blocked pipe and it should contact Mr L to arrange for this work 
to be carried out. 
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman