DRN-2320947
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wouldnt accept contributions to his 
pension plan from a new employer.
What happened
Mr F has a My Money pension plan, which is a work place pension scheme. The terms and 
conditions of the plan allowed for contributions from members and their employer. 
After Mr Fs employment with his employer ended, he undertook a number of temporary 
assignments through an agency. The agency set aside pension contributions for Mr F, and 
he wanted them paid to his Aviva pension plan.
But Aviva said it couldnt accept them. It said it could only accept contributions that 
originated from Mr Fs personal bank account, or from his original employer. 
Aviva later said there wasnt any legislation preventing it from accepting a third party 
employer contribution, but it was a business decision not to do so. The business accepted 
that its terms and conditions on this point werent as clear as they couldve been.
It then said it was willing to explore with Mr Fs new employer whether it was possible to 
accept the pension contribution. It also said it was updating its terms and conditions to clarify 
that employer contributions could only be accepted from a specific employer. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He considered Avivas 
decision not to accept the new employers contribution was a legitimate business decision 
that Aviva was entitled to make. He was also satisfied that Mr F couldve made the 
contributed to the scheme himself.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs pension plan allowed for contributions by him and his previous employer. 
When Mr Fs employment with his employer ended, he completed a number of temporary 
assignments through an agency. The agency put aside pension contributions that Mr F 
wanted paid to his Aviva pension plan.
But Aviva wasnt willing to accept the contributions because they werent coming from Mr F 
or his original employer. I dont consider that was unreasonable. The scheme was a work 
place scheme that Mr Fs original employer opted in to, in line with UK government 
requirements. 
Its likely that Mr Fs employer wouldve had to meet various legislative requirements to be 
able to opt in to the scheme. So even though, in theory, there may have been nothing to 
prevent Aviva from accepting contributions from a third party employer, in the context of a 
work place pension scheme I dont consider it wouldve been reasonable to expect it to do 
so.
Aviva accepted that the schemes terms and conditions werent specific on this point, and 
that it intended to clarify them. It seems any clarification would be to confirm that employer 
contributions could only be accepted from the original employer responsible for opting in to 
the scheme.
Aviva wrote to Mr F in April 2019, to say that it was exploring whether it could accept the 
contribution from his new employer. It seems this was an attempt to accommodate Mr Fs 
request as it refers to the non-standard nature of this work. From what Ive seen, I think 
Aviva was doing what it could to try to help Mr F.
But Mr F replied:
Too late. Ive already asked them [Mr Fs new employer] to remit the funds to my bank 
account.
So it seems Mr F was in receipt of the money his new employer had put aside for pension 
contributions. As far as I am aware, there was nothing to stop him using that money to make 
a contribution in his personal capacity.
Taking all of these points into account, Im not persuaded that Aviva has done anything 
wrong. As Ive already said, I dont consider it was unreasonable for it not to accept an 
employer contribution from a third party employer. But I think it nevertheless did what it could 
to see whether it could accommodate Mr Fs request.
It seems Mr F couldve made a direct contribution himself, so Im not persuaded that Aviva 
should cover any losses he considers hes suffered.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman