DRN-2284649
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Pi Financial Ltd (Pi) didnt conduct proper due diligence about his 
adviser when he was made Pis appointed representative. He feels had Pi done this he 
would have some recourse in relation to a pension transfer he agreed to which resulted in 
significant financial loss for him.
What happened
Mr R had been a long-standing client of the adviser, under a regulated business which I will 
refer to as Business A. Hes said that in September 2012 the adviser suggested Mr R 
transfer his pension into a different pension scheme. Mr R says the adviser told him he 
would soon be working as an appointed representative of Pi, so he waited until this move 
was completed before confirming his agreement of the transfer on 25 October 2012.
 
The transfer form that Mr R signed was headed with a different business name to that of 
Business A. I will refer to this business as Business B. Mr R has said he hadnt heard of this 
business but as the address and telephone number and the adviser was the same as 
Business A he assumed Business B was the pension arm of Business A.
The transfer was completed in February 2013 at which point Business A was the 
responsibility of Pi. This meant that any works carried about by the adviser under Business 
A, Pi would take responsibility for a certain length of time agreed between the two parties. 
In April 2013 trustees were appointed to the pension scheme into which Mr R had 
transferred his pension. This was because The Pensions Regulator had concerns the 
scheme was being used as a vehicle for pension liberation scams.
Mr R approached Pi, as the principal of the adviser, and raised a complaint about the advice 
hed received to transfer his pension. In response Pi stated that as the information about the 
pension transfer came from a business which wasnt taken over by Pi, and which also wasnt 
an appointed representative of Pi, it wasnt responsible to look into his complaint.
Unhappy with the response Mr R brought his complaint to this service where it was 
assessed by one of our investigators. She concluded that the complaint couldnt be upheld 
for largely the same reasons as Pi.
Mr R didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view Pi should take 
responsibility for the actions of the adviser it had brought into its network regardless of the 
information having come from Business B. He stated that the adviser had blurred the lines 
between Business A and B and had told him Business B was regulated. He also felt that 
Pi should have discovered the other businesses the adviser was involved in when it took on 
the liability for Business A and all those entities should also come under the liability 
agreement between Pi and the adviser.
Mr R also contacted the previous administrators of his pension before he had transferred it 
and found out that it thought it was dealing with a regulated adviser throughout the process 
of the pension transfer. And it confirmed that it was never aware of Business Bs 
involvement. 
The investigator took account of Mr Rs comments but didnt feel it changed her initial 
outcome.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding the complaint.
I can understand why Mr R feels disappointed and frustrated with what has happened and to 
lose any money from his pension must be very worrying for him. We know the new pension 
scheme was confirmed as being a scam so it would seem this transfer wasnt made with Mr 
Rs best interest in mind. 
However, despite this, in making this decision I need to remain impartial and ensure that the 
right entity is held responsible for this.
I appreciate what Mr R has said about thinking Business A and B were one and the same 
and how he trusted the adviser. But I need to consider whether this was a reasonable 
assumption for Mr R to make. I also need to decide whether Pi should take responsibility for 
actions of Business B.
Mr R was given information about transferring his pension in September 2012 which was 
before the adviser had become an appointed representative of Pi  this started on 4 October 
2012. And while the transfer wasnt confirmed until 25 October 2012, I havent seen anything 
that indicates Mr R was given further information about the transfer or any advice in October 
2012 which replaced that given to him in September.
So, I am satisfied the wheels were set in motion for this transfer to take place before the 
adviser joined Pi and therefore even if Business A was involved it isnt a foregone conclusion 
that Pi would take responsibility for this unless it had agreed to take retrospective 
responsibility.
I have next considered whether Mr R knew or whether it was made clear that Business B 
was giving him the information about the transfer rather than Business A.
The transfer suitability letter dated 25 October 2012 which confirms Mr Rs agreement to 
transfer is headed quite clearly with Business Bs details. It also contains a disclaimer at the 
end of the letter which states, amongst other things: 
[Business B] does not provide tax, financial or pension advice and we are not authorised to 
advise you in these areas.
This confirms that only Business B was involved in the pension transfer and that it wasnt 
regulated. This was clearly highlighted on the documents Mr R received and signed so its 
reasonable he would have been aware of this at the time.
I have also seen a form signed by Mr R in November 2012 which states Business A was 
introducing Mr R to Business B because it provided service that better suited his needs. This form states Business B doesnt provide financial or investment advice and confirms that only 
Business A came under the Pi umbrella. 
So again I think it was made clear to Mr R that Business B was not Business A. I know Mr R 
assumed both businesses were linked for the purpose of this transaction, but it cannot be 
assumed that businesses that share the same contact details and/or directors are 
intrinsically linked especially when FCA regulation and permissions to carry out certain types 
of businesses are involved.
Furthermore, while Mr R feels that Pi should be accepting any liabilities for Business B by 
virtue of the fact it was also run by his adviser, its important to make clear that the transfer 
of liabilities from one business to another is a very specific arrangement and always details 
which businesses pass over. Authorisation and liability follow the entity rather than an 
individual. And if the arrangement with Pi was that it only take the liabilities for Business A 
that isnt something I can change.
I know Mr R has said that his previous pension provider had rules that it would only accept 
transfer request from a regulated firm and appears to have had Business A noted in its 
systems as the adviser involved. However, this isnt enough for me to safely conclude that 
Business A was directly involved in the transfer. It may be that the previous provider had the 
adviser recorded because he was Mr Rs long-standing adviser. Also, the transfer paperwork 
only contained details of Mr R and the new pension scheme with no mention of any other 
firm. I agree it isnt clear what the adviser had told the provider but, in any event, it isnt 
enough for me to be satisfied that Business A and B were or indeed should be linked for the 
purposes of their liabilities transferred to Pi.
In my view, from everything I have seen in this complaint, Pi is correct in stating that it 
doesnt have responsibility for anything carried out under Business B. The paperwork Mr R 
signed to authorise the transfer clearly stated the information was given to him by Business 
B and there is no documented involvement of Business A. Furthermore, Pi is entitled to only 
accept liabilities for Business A and I dont think it was incumbent upon Pi to check all 
businesses the adviser was involved in at the time it took over liabilities. Even if Pi had 
checked this it may have decided for its own reasons not to take on responsibilities for all the 
businesses the adviser was involved in, as it had no obligation to do so.
I appreciate that the actions of the adviser in this situation were questionable and Mr R 
appears to have been the subject of a pension scam, but this doesnt negate that nothing in 
the paperwork from the time of the transfer leads me to safely conclude that Business B 
should be the responsibility of Pi.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman