DRN-3883830
The complaint
Mr A and X complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold their mortgage. They 
said they wanted to make overpayments to reduce the term of the mortgage. But they later 
discovered that the overpayments had not reduced the term of the mortgage as theyd been 
led to believe.
What happened
In 2021, Mr A and X found out that YBS had not been using the overpayments to reduce the 
tem of the mortgage. YBS said the overpayments reduced the balance, but the monthly 
payments were reduced each year in an annual review.
Mr A and X complain that YBS did not use the overpayments to reduce the term of the 
mortgage when theyd made it clear that was a priority for them. 
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional decision was to uphold the complaint. My 
provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
The ability to make overpayments to reduce the term of the mortgage was clearly one of Mr 
A and Xs stated needs when they took out the mortgage. YBS recommended a mortgage 
that had a facility that allowed overpayments and to reduce the mortgage term by what it 
calls a static payment arrangement or by obtaining mortgage advice and formally 
amending the term of the mortgage. 
My understanding  and YBS should correct me if I am wrong  is that the static payment 
arrangement would not formally reduce the term of the mortgage. Rather, the monthly 
payments would not reduce. The impact of this along with the overpayments is that the 
mortgage would be repaid sooner than it would have a) without the overpayments and b) if 
the monthly payments were recalculated because of the overpayments.
YBS has not shown, however, that it explained in a clear, fair and not misleading way what 
Mr A and X needed to do to set up an overpayment where the term, rather than the 
payments, reduced. I am satisfied that Mr A and X wanted to use the static payment 
arrangement. But the email from YBS on 11 July 2016 did not just lack clarity  it contains 
incorrect information. 
I say that as the email told Mr A and X that they would need to contact YBSs head office to 
set up the overpayment and they could do so by direct debit or standing order. YBS has now 
told us that it is unable to arrange a static payment arrangement where a standing order, 
rather than a direct debit is in place. That meant when Mr A and X phoned YBS in 2016 to 
set up the overpayments, they asked for a standing order to be set up. It followed that the 
overpayments were not working in the way that Mr A and X wanted.
The starting point for me is to put Mr A and X back in the position they would have been in 
had the mistake not occurred. So what would the mortgage look like now had the static 
payment arrangement been put in place? For the avoidance of any doubt, I think it would 
have been put in place had YBS communicated clearly.
I accept that Mr A and X will still have received the benefit of the overpayments. They were 
paying £600 a month in addition to the contractual monthly payment. They would still pay 
their mortgage off sooner than they otherwise would have had they not been making 
overpayments. Theyve also had the benefit of a reduction in the interest theyve had to pay.
The other feature of the static payment arrangement was that monthly payments would not 
be recalculated because of the overpayments. To put it the other way, because Mr A and X 
were not benefitting from the static payment arrangement, each year YBS reviewed their 
monthly payments and recalculated them, taking into account the overpayment balance.
Effectively, this meant that Mr A and X were not reducing the term of the mortgage as much 
as they expected. As I said, they still had some benefit of the overpayments. But the 
recalculation meant that YBS was calculating the payments so that the reduced balance was 
paid off over the longer term. If the static payment arrangement was in place, Mr A and X 
would be overpaying as a result of the monthly payment too  the payments they would have 
made towards the capital each month would have been based on the original balance.
Of course, by reducing the monthly payment Mr A and X have made saving by paying less 
each month than they would have had the static payment arrangement been in place. But 
we have a longstanding approach to cases such as this where a mortgage has been 
underfunded due to an error by a mortgage lender. The starting point is for the lender to 
rework the account as if the mistake had not occurred. But I also need to consider when Mr 
A and X knew  or should have known  that the account wasnt operating as theyd 
expected.
I understand that the mortgage was Mr A and Xs biggest financial commitment. Theyve 
also explained that overpaying to reduce the term was important because otherwise the 
mortgage would run past Mr As intended retirement age. They were both reasons why it 
would have been reasonable for Mr A and X to check their annual mortgage statements. 
Even without those factors, I still consider there is a reasonable expectation that a borrower 
will check their annual mortgage statements.
If Mr A and X had done so, I cant see that the remaining mortgage term is included on the 
statements. And if my understanding is correct and the static payment arrangement had 
been explained to Mr A and X, they would not have been expecting the formal term of the 
mortgage to reduce in any event. 
But the 2017 statement, issued in January 2018 says that they have a new mortgage 
payment and that payment was lower than they had been paying. So Mr A and X should 
have known that the arrangement they thought had been agreed was not in fact in place. 
Similar information is provided in later statements.
In March 2018, Mr A and X switched products. I note that the sales documents say that YBS 
did not give them advice for that transaction. The offer is for a term of 21 years and 2 
months. But again, if the static payment arrangement was in place, that would not indicate a 
problem.
I accept that there were opportunities for Mr A and X to know that something wasnt right. 
They should have noticed their payments were going down and that could not be consistent 
with their understanding of the arrangement they thought they had.On the other hand, YBS was the cause of the problem  and it has regulatory requirements 
to communicate clearly and fairly. I dont agree that there is no financial loss to Mr A and X 
because of what happened. I am satisfied they have paid less in capital than they otherwise 
would have had YBS treated them fairly. While they have made savings by paying less, 
there is no evidence that those savings are realisable. So Mr A and X are behind where they 
would have been had YBS acted fairly and reasonably. 
I consider it would be fair for YBS to make up half the shortfall that has arisen as a result of 
its mistake. That takes into account that Mr A and X could have realised earlier there was a 
problem. I consider the redress should be calculated up to the point Mr A and X received 
new advice in 2021 and formally reduced the term of the mortgage. So YBS should:
Calculate what Mr A and Xs mortgage balance would have been had a static payment 
arrangement been in place since the mortgages inception and they made the full 
payments due on time  up until the new advice in 2021.
Calculate the shortfall  that is the difference between the above amount and the 
mortgage balance as it was at the time of the 2021 advice.
Apply half of the above amount to Mr A and Xs mortgage as an overpayment. It should 
ask Mr A and X whether they wish to have this applied as a static payment arrangement.
It is clear that Mr A and X have been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of this 
matter. They would have had the shock and upset of finding out their mortgage term had not 
reduced as theyd expected  along with the inconvenience of sorting this matter out. But I 
consider YBSs offer of £300 is fair for that. But the savings they have made are going to be 
more than £300. So I dont consider it fair to say that YBS should pay an additional amount 
to reflect any distress and inconvenience.
Mr A and X responded to make a number of points, including:
YBS did not reduce the term of the mortgage in 2021. The shorter term is solely due to 
them taking out a new mortgage product. They made it clear that the 2021 application 
was not connected to their complaint and did not imply any acceptance of YBSs 
position. The term was not shortened by YBS.
They were told by YBS that their payments would fluctuate over time  so they would not 
have thought that anything was amiss when there was a small variation in the monthly 
payment.
YBS responded to say, in summary:
Neither a direct debit or standing order would formally reduce the term of the mortgage. 
That can only be achieved by receiving mortgage advice.
If a direct debit was set up to collect overpayments then it would remain unchanged. 
Customers can also pay the contractual monthly payment by direct debit and have the 
overpayments collected by standing order. That meant when the contractual monthly 
payment went down, the standing order continued to pay the same amount of 
overpayment. So when the payment was reviewed annually the overpayments were 
slightly less. It was for the customers to review their overpayments after each annual 
review and ensure the monthly payment and overpayment remains suitable for their 
needs and to make sure the 10% annual overpayment amount is not exceeded. Mr A and X failed to contact YBS upon each annual review to make the most of the 
overpayment allowance.
It agreed that its email of 11 July 2016 could have been clear that is why it upheld the 
complaint and offered £300 compensation. The term would not formally reduce whether 
the was a direct debit or standing order set up.
Mr A and X were under the impression that the term would formally reduce following 
overpayments. That was never the case and YBS never told them that. 
There was no mistake made. The information in the 2016 email could have been 
explained in more detail. At no point did YBS tell Mr A and X that the overpayments 
would be reflected as contractual change. By using the overpayments customers can 
reduce their balance more quickly, which will result in the mortgage being repaid before 
the contractual term. The confusion is with the term reducing term, which Mr A and X 
interpreted as contractually shortening the mortgage rather than informally ending their 
mortgage early.
It was incorrect for me to say that it was a feature of the static payment arrangements 
that the monthly payment would not be recalculated because of the overpayments. All 
mortgages are subject to an annual review an neither the standing order or direct debit 
can change that. They are just different ways of managing the overpayments.
YBS is satisfied that Mr A and X have benefitted by making overpayments in the way 
they did and the overpayments were fully considered while calculating the lower possible 
term reduction in 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything again  and having done so Ive reached largely the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I note the points that YBS has made in 
response  and I will deal with that in more detail below  but I dont think that changes the 
outcome of this complaint.
The ability to make overpayments to reduce the term of the mortgage was clearly one of Mr 
A and Xs stated needs when they took out the mortgage. YBS recommended a mortgage 
that had a facility that allowed overpayments and to reduce the mortgage term (albeit 
informally) by what it calls a static payment arrangement or by obtaining mortgage advice 
and formally amending the term of the mortgage. So the mortgage was suitable for Mr A and 
X. 
YBS also had a duty to communicate with them in a way that was clear fair and not 
misleading. While the mortgage did have the static payment feature that was in line with Mr 
A and Xs needs  that was no good if YBS did not explain properly how they could use that 
feature. 
The 2016 email didnt explain YBSs policy in respect of overpayments correctly. YBS has 
confirmed that if a standing order was set up to make overpayments it would need to be 
adjusted annually. There is no evidence to show that Mr A and X were ever told this. I 
consider it more likely that they believed that by setting up a standing order theyd arranged 
the overpayments in line with their stated needs and circumstances  and had set up a static 
overpayment. YBS knew what Mr A and Xs objectives were, so it never should have suggested that they set up a standing order. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I accept that under a static payment arrangement the 
term of the mortgage would not formally reduce. But clearly, if consistent overpayments were 
made each month, the mortgage would be repaid sooner than otherwise. YBS has 
highlighted that Mr A and X were under the impression the term would formally reduce. It 
said it never told Mr A and X this was the case. But I dont think this helps YBS. If it had 
explained the mortgage and the overpayment feature in a clear, fair and not misleading way 
then it is less likely that Mr A and X would have been confused about how it operated. 
YBS said it was for Mr A and X to adjust the overpayment amount following the annual 
review of payments. Ive already found there was no evidence that Mr A and X were ever 
told this by YBS. It was clearly an important feature of the mortgage for Mr A and X  it was 
one of their stated needs. Bearing in mind YBSs duty in giving advice to Mr A and X it would 
have been reasonable for it to show that it had brought this feature to Mr A and Xs attention.
I am satisfied that making overpayments to reduce the term of the mortgage was an 
important objective for Mr A and X. I consider it likely that if YBS had explained how the 
overpayments worked in a clear, fair and not misleading way then Mr A and X would have 
either adjusted the standing order annually or set up a static direct debit instead. So they 
have lost out as they have made less overpayments than they would have had they received 
the correct information from YBS.
The starting point is to put Mr A and X in the position they would have been in had YBS 
acted fairly and had given them clear and accurate information about how the mortgage 
operated and what they needed to do to set up a static payment arrangement. If it had done 
so, I consider it is more likely than not that Mr A and X would have continued to make static 
overpayments at the level of the initial monthly mortgage payment. This was clearly an 
important objective for them. So they have lost out, as they have overpaid less than they 
otherwise would have.
In saying that, while I accept that Mr A and X might have expected some fluctuations in the 
payments, I think the changes went further than that  and the ought reasonably to have 
known that the mortgage was not operating as they expected at an earlier point. That is not 
to take away from the mistakes that YBS made in explaining how the mortgage worked and 
not making sure that Mr A and X had set up overpayments in line with their objectives. But 
YBS did send statements every year  and there was a reasonable expectation that Mr A 
and X would check them. If they had it would have been reasonable for them to see there 
was a problem. 
I dont agree that there is no financial loss to Mr A and X because of what happened. I am 
satisfied they have paid less in capital than they otherwise would have had YBS treated 
them fairly. While they have made savings by paying less, there is no evidence that those 
savings are realisable. So Mr A and X are behind where they would have been had YBS 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
I consider it would be fair for YBS to make up half the shortfall that has arisen as a result of 
its mistake. That takes into account that Mr A and X could have realised earlier there was a 
problem. I consider the redress should be calculated up to the point Mr A and X received 
new advice in 2021 and formally reduced the term of the mortgage. So YBS should:
Calculate what Mr A and Xs mortgage balance would have been had a static payment 
arrangement been in place since the mortgages inception, in line with the original 
contractual monthly payments and they made the payments due in full and on time  up 
until the new advice in 2021.Calculate the shortfall  that is the difference between the above amount and the 
mortgage balance as it was at the time of the 2021 advice.
Apply half of the above amount to Mr A and Xs mortgage as an overpayment. 
I accept Mr A and Xs position that the advice in 2021 was unconnected to this complaint. 
But they knew the correct position at that point and it was for them to tell YBS what their 
needs and objectives were and to prevent any further loss. I cant see that they have 
complained about that advice or that it did not meet their needs and objectives. I dont see 
how I could reasonably say that the compensation should extend past the date of advice in 
2021.
It is clear that Mr A and X have been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of this 
matter. They would have had the shock and upset of finding out their mortgage term had not 
reduced as theyd expected  along with the inconvenience of sorting this matter out. But I 
consider YBSs offer of £300 is fair for that. But the savings they have made are going to be 
more than £300. So I dont consider it fair to say that YBS should pay an additional amount 
to reflect any distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that Yorkshire Building Society should:
Calculate what Mr A and Xs mortgage balance would have been had a static payment 
arrangement been in place since the mortgages inception, in line with the original 
contractual monthly payments and they made the payments due in full and on time  up 
until the new advice in 2021.
Calculate the shortfall  that is the difference between the above amount and the 
mortgage balance as it was at the time of the 2021 advice.
Apply half of the above amount to Mr A and Xs mortgage as an overpayment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman