DRN-1804271
The complaint
Mrs R says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1999.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs R took out in 1999. She first told us she 
didnt know the PPI had been added to her policy. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs R disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mrs R added that PPI was sold to her as if she did not have any option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA says the policy was sold to Mrs R during a phone call. Mrs R says she was 
unaware the policy had been added and didnt know she was paying for it. Although I cant 
be sure how the policy was sold to Mrs R, I am persuaded when looking at this information 
that the sale was conducted through a telephone call. So I will proceed that this was the 
case.
AXA have said the sale took place during a phone call but havent been able to provide 
a recording of the phone call or any notes taken at the time  this isnt surprising 
considering the sale took place many years ago. So I dont know how PPI was presented to 
Mrs R or what was said during the phone call.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs R has told us  that she did not know she 
was paying for the policy or that it had been added to her account and that she said more 
recently that it was sold to her as if she had no option. But I also have to consider that 
because the sale took place so long ago, memories can fade over time. Ive also taken in to 
account what we know about how AXA sold these policies around this time and everything 
weve seen in the past.
I think, on balance, its likely the AXA representative would have followed a sale script and 
made it clear that the PPI was optional, and Mrs R would have been asked for her consent 
to the cover. Ive not seen enough to conclude otherwise.I think its likely that PPI would have appeared on Mrs Rs store card statements and I 
think Mrs R wouldve questioned why she was paying for PPI if it was something she 
hadnt agreed to take out. But it seems Mrs R continued to pay PPI for some years after the 
PPI was added to her account.
So based on what Ive seen, I think AXA made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs 
R chose to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mrs R. So it didnt have to take steps to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it had to give Mrs R enough information about the 
policy to decide if she wanted it or not.
Its likely the information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I know about Mrs 
Rs circumstances it looks like it could still have been useful to her. And I dont think 
better information would have stopped her buying it.
I say this because Mrs R says she had some savings and would have received sick pay if 
she was off work. But the PPI policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding monthly 
balance for up to 12 months for unemployment, accident or sickness. So it wouldve paid out 
in addition to any provisions she had and for longer. She also said she could have relied on 
her family for support. But there was no guarantee that she could rely on this support at an 
unknown time in the future. So I think Mrs R couldve found this policy useful should she 
have become unable to work or unemployed. 
Theres nothing to show me Mrs R couldnt afford the policy. And if she no longer wanted it 
she couldve cancelled it at any time. Ive taken into account all Mrs Rs comments, but these 
points dont change my conclusion.
I also dont think shed have been affected by any of the main things that might have made 
it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as any medical condition of 
which she was already aware. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mrs R 
from buying the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman