DRN-1627259
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund £4,970 disputed cash withdrawals 
made from her account.
What happened
Mrs H says that fraudulent cash withdrawals  totalling £4,790 were made from her Santander 
account between the 10 August 2019 and the 26 August 2019. 
Mrs H says that she last used her debit card on the 7 August 2019, when it was swallowed 
by an ATM cash machine. Mrs H says soon after this transaction she attempted to contact 
Santander on a number of occasions to cancel her card and order a new one, but after being 
unsuccessful visited her local branch. Mrs N ordered a new card and was told this would 
likely take 5-7 days to arrive.
Mrs H says on the 27 August 2019 she contacted Santander to ask where her card was and 
confirm her balance.  After being told her card had arrived on the 10 August 2019 and had 
been used every day since Mrs H said shed never received the card and disputed the 
transactions made. 
Santander investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. They thought 
Mrs H had authorised the disputed withdrawals because the transactions were carried out 
via chip and PIN. Mrs H advised that she was the only person who knew her PIN and hadnt 
written it down anywhere
Mrs H didnt agree so asked us to investigate.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint and didnt uphold her complaint. In 
summary she felt unable to conclude that the withdrawals had been made fraudulently and 
thought they were most likely authorised by Mrs H. 
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators outcome. Her and her representatives said:
Why wasnt CCTV obtained? This would show Mrs N didnt carry out the 
transactions. 
How was the card activated?
Cash machines can have a device fraudulently fitted to them to get the PIN
Mrs N had alerts set up on her account if her balance went below £10 or £50 or more 
was withdrawn 
13 of the transactions were made in an area Mrs H hadnt been too and in the early 
hours of the morning
It was a coincidence Mrs N made contact with the bank the day after the last 
disputed transactions
She waited 20 days before contacting the bank because it wasnt her main account, 
so it wasnt a significant inconvenience 
As Mrs H didn't agree it's been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Santander can hold Mrs H liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs Hs genuine card and PIN were 
used to carry out the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that 
is not, on its own, enough to enable Santander to hold her liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mrs H consented to 
the withdrawals being made
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to conclude that Mrs H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed transactions were made using Mrs Hs genuine card and PIN but 
theres no convincing explanation for how a fraudster obtained her PIN. Mrs N has 
explained that she hasnt told anyone her PIN and didnt write it down anywhere. 
Instead Mrs H suggested that on the 7 August 2019, when her original debit card was 
swallowed by the ATM, a fraudster could have installed a camera and seen her enter 
her PIN. But, for this to be the case a fraudster would also have needed access to 
her property to obtain the new card  which seems implausible. 
Mrs H explained that on reporting her card swallowed on the 7 August 2019 she was 
advised a new card would arrive between 5 and 7 working days. Mrs H didnt make 
contact with Santander until the 27 August 2019, 22 days later. Although I 
understand Mrs H says this isnt her main account, I still find it surprising that Mrs H 
waited this long before raising the fact she hadnt received her debit card. 
The last disputed withdrawal took place just after 9pm on the 26 August 2019 for 
£170  and left Mrs Hs account with a balance of 74 pence. It seems surprising that 
the day after the last disputed transaction was made Mrs H contacted the bank to 
report she hadnt received her card. 
Although the available limit was withdrawn every day between the 10 August 2019 
and the 26 August 2019, I find it surprising that the fraudster didnt attempt any other 
transactions to maximise the opportunity for fraud. 
Although Mrs H says shes never been to one of the areas where the withdrawals 
have taken place, all of the ATM withdrawals were carried within a 10 mile radius of 
her home address.  
 
In response to our investigators view Mrs H asked why CCTV wasnt obtained by the bank 
or the police. Its possible that CCTV might have identified that someone other than Mrs H 
made the withdrawals. But Mrs H didnt have to make the withdrawals personally in order to 
be liable for them under the relevant rules. She can still be held responsible for them if she 
authorised the use of her card. So even if CCTV had been available, looking at all of the 
evidence in this particular case, I dont think I could be as sure as I would need to be to say 
that Mrs H wasnt involved.Mrs H also said she had alerts set up on her account if her balance went below £10 or over 
£50 was withdrawn in one go. Our investigator contacted Santander, and the bank advised 
theres no evidence of these being set up on the account. Mrs H has also raised a point 
regarding how the card was activated. But, Santander have advised their debit cards can be 
activated at any ATM by entering the PIN. So I think its likely Mrs Hs card was activated at 
the time of the first withdrawal. 
Taking everything into account, I find on balance that Mrs H authorised the disputed 
withdrawals. It follows that Santander can hold her liable for them. 
My Final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold Mrs H's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman