DRN-2902320
The complaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement (the 
agreement) with Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Kia Finance (Hyundai) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Mr G wants to reject the car.
What happened
Mr G entered an agreement with Hyundai in March 2020 to acquire a new car. On 16 March 
he contacted the dealer with a list of issues. Mr G says all the issues were resolved apart for 
a fault with the paintwork. The car was inspected on 21 March and Mr G says he was given 
the option of either living with the paint issue or having the wing repainted. Mr G says that he 
contacted the dealer about the issue and said he wished to reject the car. This wasnt 
accepted by the dealer and Mr G contacted Hyundai and asked to reject the car, but this 
wasnt accepted. Instead repair was offered.
Hyundai says that Mr G raised a complaint about the cars paintwork and while the dealer 
had offered to carry out a repair Mr G wanted to reject the car. Hyundai says that rejection 
was not proportionate as the issue was cosmetic and didnt affect the performance of the 
car.
Our investigator said that the issue with the paintwork had been confirmed as a defect and 
he thought this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at acquisition. However, he didnt 
think that rejection was a proportionate remedy and instead recommended that repairs be 
undertaken. He noted that the issue didnt affect Mr Gs ability to use the car but did think it 
had caused Mr G distress and inconvenience and recommended that he be paid £200 
because of this.
Hyundai agreed with our investigators view. Mr G didnt. He reiterated that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and that he had raised the issue and asked to reject the car within the 
first 30 days.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
There was an issue with the cars paintwork that was identified within 30 days of 
Mr G entering into the agreement. An independent inspection confirmed the 
paintwork defect and said it was present from the point of manufacture. Paintwork is 
a cosmetic issue and doesnt affect Mr Gs ability to use the car. However, under the 
regulations, the car supplied needed to be of satisfactory quality and this includes 
consideration of the cars appearance and finish. I thought it reasonable to accept 
that a new car would be provided without a paintwork defect and I noted Hyundais 
notes recording that Mr G had paid extra for the paint colour which showed the 
appearance of the car was important to him. Given this I found the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr G made his wish to reject the car known within the first 30 days. As the fault was 
confirmed and Mr G didnt accept repairs as a remedy I thought rejection should have 
been allowed. I also noted that there was an attempt to polish out the paintwork issue 
before it was realised to be a more significant fault and so it could be said that Mr G 
allowed a repair attempt that failed. Therefore, I thought that Mr G should now be 
allowed to reject the car.
When a car is rejected, we would expect the agreement to be cancelled with nothing 
further owing and any deposit contribution made by the consumer to be refunded 
along with interest. In this case the sales invoice showed Mr G part exchanged a 
previous car which resulted in £3,884.30 which was contributed towards the 
agreement along with a cash deposit of £250. This left a shortfall of £5,000 which 
Mr G explained was split with him paying a further £2,000 and the £3,000 being a 
contribution from the dealer.
I noted Mr Gs comments that at the start he didnt use the car but then needed to 
make use of it as the complaint was ongoing. But as the issue with the car didnt 
affect Mr Gs ability to use the car and I thought Mr G remained liable for the 
payments for the time he had the car. 
Mr G was caused distress and inconvenience having to deal with issues on a new 
car and I thought our investigators recommendation of £200 compensation was 
reasonable.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision. He said that because his request to reject the 
car wasnt accepted he needed to pay many more monthly payments and he thought that as 
Hyundai had caused the delay he should now be refunded the monthly payments. 
Alternatively, he said he could keep the car and not have the repairs carried out due to 
concerns about further issues and be compensated £3,000 for the reduction in the value of 
the car.
Hyundai didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G acquired a new car through a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) Hyundai can be held 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The CRA 2015 includes 
consideration of the appearance and finish as part of satisfactory quality. As the car was new 
at acquisition, it is reasonable that Mr G would expect the car to be free from faults (both 
mechanically and in the cars appearance) and for this to remain the situation for a 
reasonable period of time.
As I set out in my provisional decision, the issue with the paintwork was confirmed and noted 
to have been present from the point of supply. Therefore, I do not think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr G asked to reject the car. Given when the issue arose and that it had been confirmed as 
a defect present from supply, I think that he should have been allowed to do this. Therefore, 
I think that rejection is now the fair resolution.I note Mr Gs comments in response to my provisional decision and I understand the upset 
caused by his initial rejection request not being accepted. But as the issue was with the 
paintwork and didnt affect his ability to use the car, I do not require Hyundai to refund him 
the monthly payments made while he had use of the car. I also note his alternative offer for 
resolution. However, in this case I think the redress I set out in my provisional decision 
provides a fair resolution.
Mr G was caused distress and inconvenience by the issues and as I have previously said, I 
think compensation of £200 is reasonable to reflect this.
Putting things right
Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Kia Finance should allow Mr G to reject the car. It 
should:
cancel Mr Gs finance agreement with nothing further owing;
collect the car at no cost to Mr G;
refund the deposit contribution he made (including both the amount from the part 
exchange of his previous car and also the cash contribution) along with 8% simple a 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information that maybe recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding 
this agreement; and
pay Mr G £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused.
*If Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Kia Finance considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Kia 
Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman