DRN-3136590
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance 
treated him unfairly after hed taken out a payment deferral. 
What happened
Mr W acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers in 
November 2019. The car cost around £7,000 and was to be paid back over four years with 
payments of around £160 per month. 
In 2020, Mr W contacted Close Brothers to ask for support because his finances were 
adversely impacted by Covid-19. Over the next few months, Close Brothers and Mr W 
contacted each other on and off, and Close Brothers allowed him to take a payment deferral 
for a few months. 
It looks like Mr W told Close Brothers in August 2020 that hed be going back to work the 
following month. So, they came to an agreement for Mr W to recommence making his 
payments again. And Close Brothers agreed Mr W could pay his original payment amount, 
but it wanted to set up an arrangement to clear the payments that had been deferred. Mr W 
wasnt happy with this and said he couldnt afford to increase his payments. And this is 
where the dispute has arisen. 
Over the next few months, Close Brothers sought an income and expenditure form from 
Mr W, so that it could establish what he could afford to pay, and whether he could contribute 
more than his normal monthly payment. While the conversations were ongoing Close 
Brothers allowed Mr W to continue his normal payment. Mr W wanted the option to extend 
his agreement. 
The notes arent totally clear, but Close Brothers has explained the income and expenditure 
form Mr W completed in February 2021 said he had a surplus of £545. But Mr W explained 
he had two young children and was left with very little at the end of each month. It looks like 
Mr W called back to say the expenses hadnt been completed properly because not all his 
wifes bills were included. 
Close Brothers allowed Mr W to continue his normal payment for a few months. But another 
income and expenditure form was completed in June 2021 that indicated he had a surplus of 
around £120. 
I think Close Brothers thought this was important because it indicated Mr W could pay more 
than his normal monthly payment. And Close Brothers also seems to have told Mr W that 
payments he was making to a loan and a credit card were non-priority debts. Again, 
indicating there could be means for Mr W to increase his payment. 
Mr W on the other hand said the figures on the income and expenditure form didnt cover all 
his household expenses. He said his wifes income and expenditure wasnt properly 
considered. And he was unhappy with the support he was given. He said other creditors had 
allowed him to extend his agreements. 
Unhappy with how things were going, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and thought the initial support Close Brothers offered was 
fair, but he thought it didnt handle the payment plan requests reasonably. He thought this 
had caused unnecessary upset. To resolve the complaint, he recommended Close Brothers 
pay Mr W £100 compensation, and he thought Mr W should speak to it to come up with a 
sustainable plan.  
Mr W agreed with the assessment. But Close Brothers didnt. Close Brothers said it had 
acted with forbearance and that it determined, from looking at Mr Ws income and 
expenditure, that there were non-priority debts which he would be able to pay a lower 
amount towards. Close Brothers said its agreement was a priority debt. It didnt think it would 
be fair to simply go by what Mr W said about not being able to pay extra towards the debt. It 
ultimately didnt think it had caused distress. But it did offer to discuss with its operations 
manager to see if Mr Ws payments could be spread over longer than 12 months, but that 
this would be as a courtesy. 
As things couldnt be resolved the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Covid-19 has negatively impacted Mr W. It cant have 
been easy, and I thank him for taking the time and effort to bring the complaint to our 
service. 
Mr W acquired the car under a regulated conditional sale agreement, and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to those sorts of agreements. 
Like our investigator pointed out, I think Close Brothers did initially provide the support that 
was required when Mr W asked for help when he fell into financial difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19. I think it broadly gave the sort of forbearance the regulator had set out in its 
guidance that car finance firms should offer customers impacted by Covid-19. So, I dont 
think I need to go over that again here. 
I think the key question I need to decide is whether Close Brothers acted fairly in its dealings 
with Mr W when discussing repayment of the deferred payments. And if it didnt, what does it 
need to do to put things right. 
Close Brothers has been clear that it wanted Mr W to clear the deferred payments within 12 
months. And it indicated it wanted the debt cleared before the end of the agreement in 2023. 
It looks like theres a concern from Close Brothers that theres a depreciating asset involved 
and extending the agreement for Mr W to clear the deferred payments may not be the right 
thing to do. And indeed, it looks like Mr W mightve been told that was not an option. 
Mr W however has been clear that his finances have been negatively impacted by Covid-19. 
He felt he was rushed into completing the income and expenditure forms. Hes unhappy 
because other financial service providers have given him the breathing space he thinks he 
needs. He highlighted his wifes income had dropped. And that he has two children and is 
left with very little at the end of the month. 
So, Ive thought about whats happened. On the one hand, after the payment deferral period, 
despite Close Brothers wanting Mr W to increase his payment, it did give him space to 
continue paying the original amount. It put in arrangements for three-month periods before seeking to review the matter. I think this was fair. But on the other hand, there was still a 
great deal of the unknown for many people, like Mr W, during that period. And it looks like 
his familys finances were to some extent rather uncertain. So, I can I understand why Mr W 
was hesitant to commit to paying extra.  
Where the dispute has arisen is after Close Brothers went through income and expenditure 
forms with Mr W. In February 2021, it looked like Mr W had around £500 disposable income. 
So, I can understand why Close Brothers thought he should increase his payment. But from 
Mr Ws point of view, he thought hed been rushed into completing the form, his familys 
finances hadnt been considered properly, and he felt like he was left with little money at the 
end of the month. But, again, Close Brothers allowed Mr W a further three months at his 
normal payment, which seems fair. 
Close Brothers completed another income and expenditure in June 2021, which indicated 
Mr W had around £120 of disposable income. Close Brothers again wanted Mr W to 
increase his payment. And it highlighted Mr W could reduce payments to other debts so he 
could clear the deferred payments towards its priority debt. By this point the relationship had 
deteriorated, which is why Mr W brought his complaint to our service. 
Completing an income and expenditure form is a useful tool to determine broadly what 
committed expenditure a customer has. But its not an exact science. And it doesnt always 
account for unexpected expenses. Which is often the case for customers with children. The 
income and expenditure that was completed, amongst other things, said Mr W required £40 
for childcare; £300 for groceries; and £10 for hairdressing. But theres nothing else inputted 
for living and family costs. I accept it looks like Mr W agreed with this. And I dont think it was 
wrong for Close Brothers to take things at face value. But what about when a new pair of 
shoes is required, or a school trip to pay for? Mr W said he had very little at the end of each 
month. When he spoke to the advisor, he was indicating the £120 disposable figure was 
what he had left to live on. So, would it have been fairer to have scrutinised the income and 
expenditure form a bit more to help understand if it was a fair reflection of his finances, after 
listening to what he was saying? To my mind, I think that wouldve been the right thing to do. 
It seems more likely than not the form wasnt completed properly in the first place. 
Im also mindful of what the regulator set out in its Covid-19 guidance for car finance firms. It 
said: 
4.10 Where a customer can resume full repayments after a payment deferral, but is unable 
to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow them to repay the 
deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer period for 
repayment. The firm should consider what is most in the customers interests. 
4.11 For example, where appropriate, the firm could lengthen the time during which the 
customer is allowed to make repayments by: 
 the length of the payment deferrals given to the customer; or 
 a period of time that enables the customer to keep the same contractual payments 
they had prior to the payment deferrals. 
So, while I appreciate Close Brothers didnt want to give a payment arrangement for longer 
than 12 months, or extend Mr Ws agreement, I think it should have been something that 
was, at least, a possibility for him. 
I can understand Close Brothers point that Mr W could look to reduce outgoings to non-
priority debts. And under certain circumstances that might be fair. Mr W on the other hand 
was worried the debts would be passed to debt collectors if they werent paid. Which I can also understand. Im mindful Mr W deferred payments to Close Brothers as a result of Covid-
19. Had it not been for Covid-19, in all likelihood, Mr W would have carried on paying his 
agreement as normal. But the situation was unprecedented. For many customers, I think 
clearing the deferred payments during the term of the agreement would work well and be a 
sensible thing to do. But I dont find the regulator said this is what would work for everyone. I 
think its important to note that Mr W continued to agree, and be able to make his original 
contractual repayment after the deferral. This isnt a situation where hes paying less than 
what he agreed he could afford at the outset. 
In Mr Ws particular circumstances, I think Close Brothers has done lots of things I would 
have expected. But I also think its made it seem to Mr W his only option was to increase his 
payments, unless it were to get a special arrangement from its operations manager. 
Ultimately, I think it was putting a bit too much pressure on him to agree to something that it 
looks like he would have struggled to afford. Which I dont think would have been 
sustainable. 
Putting things right
I think Close Brothers and Mr W should continue to communicate with each other to see if 
Mr W is able to afford to increase his payments. Im not going to set out how often that 
needs to happen. But if Mr Ws financial situation doesnt improve and hes unable to 
increase his payments, Close Brothers should consider allowing him to clear the deferred 
payments after the agreement has ended. For the avoidance of doubt, Im not saying Close 
Brothers shouldnt take steps to complete an income and expenditure form with Mr W. But I 
think it should look carefully at what is provided and make sure it considers his situation 
fairly. 
And while I agree with a lot of what Close Brothers has done, and that it cant be held 
responsible for Mr Ws financial difficulties, I also think it has contributed to some of his 
distress, at what was already a difficult time. So, I agree with our investigator, a payment of 
£100 in recognition of that is fair. Mr W may wish to consider asking Close Brothers to put 
this towards the deferred amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman