DRN-3736153
The complaint
Ms D complains about how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Finance (VWFS) treated her when she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
In January 2017 Ms D acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. The 
agreement was for 42 months, requiring Ms D to make monthly payments, and an optional 
balloon payment at the end of the agreement if she wanted to keep the vehicle. 
Ms D said she was made redundant in December 2019. She was due to start a new job in 
January 2020, and so she contacted VWFS to let them know shed miss the January 
payment, but thought shed be able to maintain her monthly payments after that. 
In February 2020 Ms D contacted VWFS as shed been unable to secure new employment 
and had missed the payments for January and February 2020. She told VWFS that she 
hoped to secure employment soon and resume payments, but she was concerned about the 
arrears on the account. 
VWFS told Ms D that they were unable to set up a payment arrangement whilst she had no 
income, as it wouldnt be affordable. They explained that missed payments would be 
recorded on her credit file, and this might lead to a default notice and termination of the 
agreement if payments werent made. 
VWFS added 30 days breathing space to Ms Ds account. They explained that the monthly 
rentals were still due, but this would mean they wouldnt contact her about the arrears. 
VWFS asked Ms D to contact them before the breathing space ended to give them an 
update, or sooner if she secured employment and would be able to resume making 
payments. 
In July 2020 VWFS sent Ms D a default notice, which set out that Ms D needed to pay the 
arrears of £1,092.06 by 25 July 2020. 
Ms D said she tried to speak to VWFS a number of times before 25 July 2020, and asked for 
a payment holiday, but said she didnt receive a response to this request.   
Ms D spoke to VWFS in August 2020. She told them shed like her payments deferred and 
wanted to keep the vehicle when the agreement came to an end. 
VWFS told Ms D that because shed called them after submitting online forms or sending 
emails, the emails were marked as not needing any action when they were picked up, as it 
was assumed her queries had been answered when she called. 
VWFS said Ms D was in arrears on the account for January to July 2020, and the optional 
balloon payment would be due when the agreement ended in August 2020. They said Ms D 
had a number of options, which were; to hand back the vehicle, pay the balloon payment in 
full and keep the vehicle, part exchange the vehicle in order to clear the outstanding finance, 
or to refinance the balloon payment, either with VWFS subject to a credit check, or by other 
external means. 
VWFS told Ms D that they were unable to agree to an arrangement to pay on the balloon 
payment, but they could give her 30 days after it was due to make a decision, and if the car 
was handed back theyd be able to agree an arrangement to pay the arrears balance. 
Ms D was unable to refinance either the arrears or the balloon payment through VWFS as 
she didnt pass their credit check. 
VWFS sent Ms D a message about the arrears on the account in January 2021, which 
included the seven missed monthly payments and the final balloon payment. Ms D told 
VWFS that she still wasnt in employment because of Covid-19. VWFS said as Ms D had 
been unable to refinance the outstanding amount, she needed to decide if she would pay the 
full amount, hand the vehicle back or part exchange it in order to clear the balance. VWFS 
gave Ms D 60 days breathing space, which meant they wouldnt contact her about the 
arrears. They asked her to contact them before this expired. 
Ms D spoke to VWFS again in February 2021 and explained she was due to start a new job 
soon so hoped to be able to make a payment. VWFS told Ms D she needed to decide how to 
settle the account by 10 March 2021, and the options available to her were: 
Keep the vehicle and pay the outstanding balance of £6,811.88 in full
Hand the vehicle back, whereby it would be subject to an inspection and end of 
contract charges
Seek to obtain finance elsewhere to clear the balance in full
Sell the vehicle and use the proceeds to clear the balance in full. 
Ms D complained to VWFS in February 2021, unhappy that due to her credit file and the 
arrears she was unable to refinance the balance, and that VWFS wouldnt come to an 
arrangement to pay on the balance. 
Ms D told VWFS that she had looked at selling the vehicle, but it was worth less than the 
balance, so this wasnt an option. She said she was trying to borrow some money to make a 
payment but wouldnt be able to pay the full amount. She said there had been a delay in 
starting her new job, and she didnt expect to be in employment until April 2021. 
VWFS sent Ms D their final response to her complaint in March 2021. They said the 
agreement ended in August 2020 and there were currently seven monthly payments and the 
balloon payment to be paid. They explained they couldnt enter an arrangement to pay on 
the balloon payment, it would need to be paid in full. As Ms D had been rejected for 
refinance with VWFS, they said shed need to sell the vehicle privately to clear the finance 
balance, pay the arrears and the balloon payment in full, or hand the vehicle back which 
would remove the balloon payment, and an arrangement to pay could then be set up for the 
arrears. They gave Ms D until 12 March 2021 to decide, at which point they said theyd 
terminate the agreement and arrange to repossess the vehicle. 
Unhappy with the response from VWFS, Ms D brought her complaint to our service for 
investigation. She said shed been proactive in trying to resolve the situation but had been 
unsupported by VWFS. Ms D said shed like an apology for the way the case was handled, 
compensation for the severe effect on her health and help to be able to keep the vehicle.  
Our investigator gave her view that there was no evidence that a payment holiday had been 
agreed, and that Ms D was unlikely to have been eligible for one under the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our investigator thought that VWFS had treated 
Ms D fairly during her financial difficulties and so she didnt ask them to do anything more.  
Ms D didnt agree. She said she wasnt told at any point before the balloon payment became 
due that an arrangement couldnt be set up, so she remained hopeful the situation could be 
resolved. Ms D said she made attempts to make payments but VWFS werent available or 
didnt return her calls. Ms D said she was told that a payment holiday was in place, and her 
credit rating wouldnt be affected, but it was, and this meant she was unable to refinance the 
amount owed. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. I made the following 
provisional findings: 
First, I would like to express my considerable sympathy for the position Ms D is in and for the 
health issues she has encountered. I know this has been a very difficult time for her. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Ms D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
When dealing with a customer in financial difficulty or facing default, lenders are required to 
follow rules which are set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) issued by the 
FCA. CONC 7.3.4 requires a firm to treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. 
When Ms D first contacted VWFS shed been made redundant but expected to be able to 
keep up with her payments. Ms D was then unable to find another job as quickly as shed 
hoped and discussed her situation with VWFS. 
VWFS said they couldnt set up an arrangement to repay the arrears because Ms D didnt 
have any income, so an arrangement wouldnt be affordable for her. They explained the 
effect of missed payments on Ms Ds credit file, and what might happen if payments 
continued to go unpaid. VWFS also applied breathing space to Ms Ds account, which meant 
they wouldnt contact her about the arrears. 
Ms D remained hopeful that shed be back in work soon, and Im satisfied that VWFS 
showed forbearance and due consideration in applying the breathing space to Ms Ds 
account. 
I can see that Ms D had some difficulty in contacting VWFS, particularly after they sent her a 
default notice, saying the arrears needed to be paid by 25 July 2020. I appreciate that VWFS 
were transitioning to a different way of working in the early stages of the Coronavirus 
pandemic (Covid-19) and that this might have made it difficult for Ms D to get in touch with 
them. 
Ms D was able to discuss the situation with VWFS on 13 August 2020, and Ive listened to 
this call. VWFS explained to Miss D that they were unable to come to an arrangement to pay 
on the balloon payment but would be able to agree an arrangement to repay the arrears if 
the car was handed back. They told Ms D that a covid-19 marker had been added to her 
account, which meant that the missed payments for March to July 2020 wouldnt be 
recorded on Ms Ds credit file. They also said this marker would last until October 2020, so 
Ms D would have more time to decide what to do about the balloon payment. VWFS explained that Ms D might be able to refinance the balloon payment, either with them 
or through a loan with someone else. They said they didnt think it was likely that Ms D would 
be able to refinance both the balloon payment and the arrears, the arrears might need to be 
paid for any refinance application to be successful. They suggested that clearing the arrears 
not related to covid-19, so those from January and February 2020 might assist with a 
refinance application. They said they could apply 30 days breathing space once the balloon 
payment became due, which would give Ms D more time to make a decision about what she 
wanted to do. 
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied that VWFS made it clear to Ms D that they 
wouldnt be able to come to an arrangement to pay the balloon payment, and that her 
options for keeping the vehicle were limited to being able to pay the balloon payment, either 
in full, through refinancing this with them, or through finance from elsewhere.  
Ms D has said that the missed payments from March 2020 onwards remained on her credit 
file, and this prevented her from being able to refinance the balloon payment. Im satisfied 
that VWFS did tell Ms D that they would place a covid-19 marker on her file, and this would 
prevent these payments being recorded as missed on her credit file. 
The FCA released specific guidance relating to motor finance agreements and Covid-19 in 
April 2020. That guidance said:
This guidance sets out our expectation that firms provide, for a temporary period only, 
exceptional and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus. It is intended to provide help to those who might be 
having temporary difficulty in making their finance or leasing payments due to a loss of or 
reduction in their income (or income of other members of their household) or to those who 
expect to experience such difficulties.
This guidance applies where customers are already experiencing or reasonably expect to 
experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus. Where a customer was 
in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC 
would continue to apply.
Having regard to the FCA guidance, Im not persuaded that Ms D was eligible for a covid-19 
payment holiday, because she was in financial difficulty prior to and unrelated to covid-19. 
So, although VWFS told Ms D that the payments shed missed from March 2020 onwards 
wouldnt be recorded on her credit file, Im satisfied that it was correct that they were 
recorded, and so Im not asking them to now remove them. 
VWFS have an obligation to lend responsibly, which includes undertaking checks to ensure 
that consumers can repay debt in a sustainable way. Ms D had been in financial difficulty 
since January 2020 and made no payments toward the agreement since that date. She was 
not receiving an income at the time of the refinance application and had mentioned 
borrowing money and being unable to pay her other creditors. So, even if VWFS had 
removed these missed payments from Ms Ds credit file, Im not persuaded that it wouldve 
changed the outcome of the refinance application. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that VWFS treated Ms D with forbearance and due 
consideration whilst she was in financial difficulty, and that they treated her fairly whilst trying 
to find a way for her to keep the vehicle. 
Ms D made no payments between January and July 2020, and no payment toward the 
balloon payment when the agreement ended in August 2020. VWFS gave Ms D a number of 
periods of breathing space and time to decide what she wanted to do about the balloon payment. They invited a refinance application, offered an arrangement to pay on the arrears 
if the car was returned and discussed Ms Ds affordability with her. Im satisfied this was fair 
and reasonable, and in line with the requirements set out in CONC. 
Im satisfied that VWFS gave Ms D a number of options to repay her arrears, and to stay in 
the vehicle if it was possible. Whilst I appreciate that Ms D required use of the vehicle for 
specific reasons, Im satisfied that the agreement required her to pay the balloon payment at 
its conclusion if she wished to keep the vehicle. 
VWFS responded to my provisional decision to accept it. 
Ms D responded to my provisional decision. She disagreed that she wasnt entitled to a 
payment holiday for Covid-19, and said that she wanted to make a payment between March 
and July 2022, but wasnt able to because she couldnt get in touch with VWFS, and was 
then told it was too late. Ms D said she did make a payment in January 2022, and shes not 
convinced that VWFS did all they could to help her.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D said she disagrees that she wasnt entitled to a payment holiday as a result of Covid-
19, and to be excluded in uncertain times doesnt make sense. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that Ms D was eligible 
for a Covid-19 payment holiday, as she didnt meet the criteria outlined by the FCA 
guidance. Ive also set out that regardless of whether the missed payments were or were not 
recorded on Ms Ds credit file, Im not persuaded that it wouldve changed the outcome of 
her refinance application. 
Ms D said she made a number of attempts to contact VWFS before July 2020 and she 
wanted to make a payment, and discuss her options going forward. But because she 
couldnt get in touch with VWFS she was unable to do this. 
Ms D has told us that she tried to call VWFS on 13 and 28 July 2020 but couldnt get 
through. She then sent a message online on 5 August 2020 before being able to speak to 
VWFS on 13 August 2020. 
During the call on 13 August 2020 VWFS told Ms D that theyd picked up her online request 
for a payment holiday made on 21 July on the 10 August 2020. And because theyd spoken 
to her before 10 August 2020 the online request was marked as complete. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Ms D found it difficult to contact 
VWFS around July 2020. But I havent seen any evidence that she tried to contact them 
between March 2020 and July 2020. I appreciate that not getting a fast response to her 
online queries and not being able to get through when calling VWFS mustve been 
frustrating for Ms D, particularly when a default notice had been issued for her account. 
Ms D said she wanted to make a payment during this time, but when she got in touch with 
VWFS she was told it was too late. Ms Ds agreement ended in August 2020, and the 
arrears balance and balloon payment were due. So, Im satisfied that Ms D couldve made a 
payment to clear the arrears and it wasnt too late to take this action. As I set out in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that the agreement required Ms D to pay the balloon 
payment at its conclusion if she wished to keep the vehicle, and VWFS gave Ms D a number of periods of breathing space and time to decide what she wanted to do about the balloon 
payment.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments afresh, and the comments submitted 
by Ms D, I am sorry for the impact the situation has had on Ms D. But Im satisfied that 
VWFS treated Ms D with forbearance and due consideration whilst she was in financial 
difficulty, and that they treated her fairly whilst trying to find a way for her to keep her vehicle. 
VWFS have provided Ms D with a number of options to settle the agreement, and she might 
wish to discuss with them which of these remain available to her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman