DRN-4253166
The complaint
Mrs E complains about Covea Insurance plcs (Covea) handling of her home insurance 
claim. Any reference to Mrs E or Covea in this final decision includes respective 
representatives and agents unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved. So Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Mrs E made a claim on her Covea home insurance policy for significant damage to 
her building and contents. She appointed loss assessors and surveyors to establish a 
detailed breakdown of the reinstatement work required. Several tenders for this work 
were obtained by Mrs Es loss assessors and presented to Covea. 
Covea accepted the claim, but it wasnt satisfied with the scope and costings of the 
tenders provided, so it appointed its own loss adjuster and surveyor to review the 
claim and made a cash settlement offer to Mrs E on the back of this. Mrs E didnt 
accept the cash settlement as it was notably less than the reinstatement costs 
calculated by her appointed surveyor.
Mrs E complained to Covea about this as well as its lack of response to enquiries 
and poor communication. She says this resulted in delays leaving her (and her child) 
without heating in parts of their home during the cold winter period which was 
distressing and exacerbated a health condition she suffered from. 
Covea didnt uphold the complaint. It said the delays to Mrs Es claim were the result 
of her insistence on a cash settlement and the fact her loss assessors obtained 
tenders for the work without prior agreement from Covea, producing an inaccurate 
scope and costing. It therefore had to carry out this work again with its own appointed 
parties and was in ongoing negotiations with Mrs Es loss assessor to reach a fair 
settlement based on these findings. Mrs E brought a complaint to this service. 
On allocation to our investigator the only matters left in dispute were the delays and 
poor communication. He found thered been avoidable delays on Coveas part, and 
that Mrs E often had to chase it for responses  including when it was made aware of 
the issue with the heating. He said this wasnt reasonable given Mrs Es health 
condition and recommended £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs E accepted the investigators findings, but Covea disagreed. It maintained that 
Mrs Es insistence on a cash settlement was the main cause of the delay and that as 
the scope of works was still under review at the point Mrs E was without heating in 
parts of her home, it couldnt help with additional heating measures until it was clear 
the loss of heating was the result of the insured peril. 
Covea asked for an Ombudsman to review the case, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above the only matter left in dispute in this case is Mrs Es complaint 
regarding Coveas delays and poor communication in relation to her claim. So thats 
whats being considered in this final decision.
Covea must handle claims promptly and fairly. But from what Ive seen, Im 
persuaded this claim took longer to resolve than it should have. Much of this was 
because the parties couldnt agree on a fair settlement, but I think Covea couldve 
communicated better at points of the claim to resolve this sooner.
Covea argues the delays were caused mainly by Mrs Es insistence on a cash 
settlement, meaning it had to re-cost and scope the work after she provided 
inaccurate tenders, adding on more time to the claim. 
But Mrs E says she was always open to Covea carrying out the repair works and that 
she only had the work surveyed and scoped by her own parties to help expedite 
matters as she and her child were living in a property with significant damage. 
This is further supported by her loss assessor confirming this in writing to Covea 
during the claim process and the fact that from what Ive seen, she subsequently 
went on to have Covea carry out the repairs instead of receiving the cash settlement.
On balance Im persuaded my Mrs Es testimony regarding the claim settlement and 
so I dont think shes entirely responsible for the delays caused by Covea having to 
re-cost and scope the work. And had Covea been more prompt in clarifying the most 
suitable method of settlement with Mrs E, I think its likely the claim couldve 
progressed sooner than it did  if Mrs E accepted Covea carrying out the works, 
there likely wouldve been no need for further time taken to explore the cash 
settlement which is what Covea essentially say caused the delay.
From what Ive seen, Mrs Es loss assessors had to chase Covea for responses and 
updates on several occasions during the claim, including the period she was without 
heating in parts of her home.
While I acknowledge Coveas comments that the scope and costings were still under 
review at that stage, it shouldve still provided a reasonable response in a timely 
manner  especially given the time of year and Mrs Es health condition. 
It was already a stressful time for Mrs E given the significant damage to her family 
home and the impact this had on her living areas, so I can understand why Coveas 
lack of prompt response was upsetting to her. 
It follows on balance of everything Ive seen, Im persuaded that there were avoidable 
delays on Coveas part in this case and at points it communicated poorly with Mrs E.
Our investigator recommended £300 compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs E. I dont think this is unreasonable and is broadly in 
line with what Id expect. Covea should therefore pay this amount to Mrs E.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and 
Covea Insurance plc should pay Mrs E £300* compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
*Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mrs E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest** on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
** If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs E how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs E a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman