DRN-1396354
 
The complaint
Ms T complains that China Taiping Insurance Co (UK) Limited has turned down a storm 
damage claim she made on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2018, Ms T noticed water damage in two bedrooms in her home. She made a 
storm damage claim on her buildings insurance policy. China Taiping appointed a loss 
adjuster to inspect her roof and the bedrooms. The loss adjuster didnt think the damage to 
Ms Ts roof was down to storm, but had been caused by wear and tear over time.
So China Taiping turned down Ms Ts roof claim. She asked us to look into her complaint 
about its decision. An investigator looked into Ms Ts complaint about her roof damage claim 
and didnt think it should be upheld. She agreed the roof damage was likely to be caused by 
wear and tear. Ms T accepted the investigators findings.
But the investigator noticed that China Taiping hadnt considered Ms Ts internal damage 
claim. So she set up a new complaint to look into this issue.
China Taiping didnt think Ms Ts internal damage claim should be paid. It said that as storm 
conditions werent the proximate cause of the roof damage, they also werent the proximate 
cause of the internal damage.
Our investigator thought Ms Ts internal damage claim should be partly upheld. She didnt 
think the damage to Ms Ts rear bedroom was covered by the policy. She thought the 
damage had been caused over time by the wear and tear to the roof, rather than being down 
to storm. 
But the investigator thought the internal damage to the front bedroom should be covered. 
She noted there were storm conditions around the date of the claim. She thought water 
ingress was consistent with storm damage. The loss adjuster said in their report that the 
front guttering may have not been able to cope with the rainfall; may have backed up and 
caused the damage to the front bedroom. So she recommended that China Taiping should 
pay for the cost of repairs to the front bedroom.
China Taiping disagreed with the investigator. It said the poor condition of the roof had been 
the reason why rainwater had entered the property and caused internal damage. It said as 
the roof damage hadnt been caused by storm and there was no accidental damage cover, 
the claim had been correctly turned down.
Ms Ts representative said she still felt she had a valid claim for the damage to the roof and 
for the internal repairs. But she was willing to accept the investigators findings and would 
settle for the costs of internal redecoration to the front and back bedrooms. He told us the 
situation has had a detrimental impact on Ms Ts mental health and has caused her anxiety.In this decision, I am only considering whether the internal damage to Ms Ts property 
should be covered. The roof damage claim was a separate complaint and the records 
suggest Ms T accepted the investigators findings on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint should be upheld in part. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Ive looked carefully at the local weather records for Ms Ts area. I can see that there were 
storm winds and heavy rainfall about two weeks before she made the claim. There were also 
storm winds and intense rain on the day of the claim. So I think the answer to the first 
question is yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
I think internal damage to a property due to water getting in through a damaged roof can 
often be consistent with storm damage. So I also think the answer to the second question is 
yes.
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The back bedroom
Ive carefully considered the loss adjusters report, because this is the only piece of expert 
evidence I have to show me whats most likely to have caused the internal damage. The 
report says: There is an evident slipped and cracked tile to the back of the house. This is 
next to the Velux window, consistent to where water is pouring in to the side of it. The 
photos show deep cracks in the space where the tile is missing, along with reasonable moss 
growth. The loss adjuster didnt think this roof damage was consistent with storm. 
They suggested that this damage had been ongoing over a period of time. 
This area of internal damage was right by the Velux window where the deep crack was 
noted. And from the photos Ive seen, it doesnt look like the damage was fresh. It looks like 
it had been ongoing for a while. So I think its most likely that the storm conditions had simply 
highlighted the existing damage to the underfelt in this part of the roof and allowed water to 
ingress.
 
This means I think it was fair for China Taiping to turn down this part of the internal damage claim.
The front bedroom
Ive noted that the quotations for Ms Ts roof replacement include replacing the lead 
guttering. But it doesnt seem to me that the loss adjuster made any firm finding on these 
being worn or damaged. Instead the report says: 
The guttering to the front elevation may have been unable to cope with recent rain fall and 
backed up having caused damage to the front bedroom plaster and dcor. 
The weather records the loss adjuster relied on noted rainfall of 27.3mm over 24 hours on 
the date of the loss and 40.2mm about two weeks before. The records Ive looked at, which 
were taken at a weather station two miles from Ms Ts home, show rainfall of 58.4mm over 
24 hours on the day of the loss. And rainfall of 45.8mm a couple of weeks before. In either 
case, accompanied by the high winds, it seems that the intensity of the rainfall simply 
overwhelmed the gutters and caused internal damage.
So on balance, based on what Ive seen, I think the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage to the front bedroom. This means I think it would be fair for China Taiping to 
deal with this part of the claim. If Ms T hasnt yet got a quote for redecoration of this room, 
she should now do so and send it to China Taiping so it can calculate settlement.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
I direct China Taiping Insurance Co (UK) Limited to deal with Ms Ts claim for the internal 
damage to her front bedroom, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman