DRN-4365183
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked his account and didnt allow him 
access to funds paid into his account. Hes also unhappy that his address details were 
incorrect and with the service he recevied. 
What happened
Mr F had an account with NatWest, which he used to receive his benefit payments. The 
account had an overdraft facility.
 
In early April 2021, NatWest reviewed Mr Fs account. Following its review the bank decided 
to close Mr Fs account and on 21 April 2021, it wrote to him giving him 60 days notice that 
he needed to make alternative banking arrangments. The letter stated that Mr F would have 
to repay any money owed to the bank and wouldnt be able to use his bank card. After the 
notcie period lapsed Mr F wasnt able to use his account. NatWest closed the account on 16 
September 2021.
Mr F says he never received the closure letter NatWest sent to him as the bank had an 
incorrect address recorded for him on its systems so he wasnt aware his account was going 
to be closed.  He says he only found out there was a problem with his account when his 
bank card stopped working.
Mr F has said that hes lived on and off overseas since 2017 and relied on his benefit funds 
to pay for accomodation and general living expenses whilst abroad. Mr F was living 
overseas when NatWest decided to close his account. He says when his bank card stopped 
working he was unable to access his benefit payments which he received from the UK 
Department of Work And Pensions (DWP) every month.
Mr F says he called NatWest but the bank refused to allow him access to his benefit 
payments which had been paid into his account. Mr F says beause of NatWest actions he 
was left homeless and unable to pay for food. As a result he says he had to sleep rough and 
steal food which led to him being arrested and eventually deported back to the UK. Mr F 
says NatWest have kept his benefit money so he has lost out financially. He wants NatWest 
to refund him his benefit payments and pay him compensation for the trouble and upset he 
suffered.
Mr F is also unhappy with the service he received from NatWest. Hes said he tried to gain 
access to his funds but when he called the bank staff hung up on him and were rude to him. 
He says when he went into branch staff called the police. And he wasnt able to access his 
account when he visited a branch, depsite NatWest telling him this would be possible. So he 
says he wasted time travelling to a branch. Mr F says NatWest also told him that he would 
receive his closing balance within three to five days but he had to wait much longer. He also 
says NatWest told him that his balance would be paid into his other bank account. But he 
wasnt told hed need to complete a form for this to happen. So he had to wait longer to get 
his money.
Mr F complained to NatWest. In response the bank said it hadnt done anything wrong when 
it decided to close Mr Fs account and the address details it had for him was based on 
information Mr F had provided. NatWest also explained that at the time Mr Fs June 2021 
and July 2021 benefit payments credited his account he was overdrawn by over £800, which 
had then left a balance of just over £18, which was returned to Mr F. So it hadnt denied Mr F 
access to his benefits. 
NatWest accepted that it had given Mr F incorrect information when it told him it could pay 
his remaining balance into an external account instead of him having to complete a funds 
release form. And when it told Mr F he would be able to withdraw his funds at a branch. The 
bank also said a call it had had with Mr F had been wrongly disconnected. NatWest 
apologised and paid Mr F £50 compensation for any trouble and uspet this had caused him.
Mr F wasnt happy with the banks response. So he brought his complaint to our service. He 
says NatWest are still witholding around £800 of his benefit money, which he thinks is illegal. 
And that NatWest actions left him homeless. So he wants more compensation and his 
benefit money refunded to him.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint. She issued a view which said that 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Fs account. But she thought 
NatWest should have allowed Mr F access to his benefit payments, even though his account 
was overdrawn at the time. To put things right she said NatWest should pay Mr F £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by the bank denying him access to his benefit 
funds. And she said it should refund Mr F the benefit payments hed received in June 2021 
and July 2021. NatWest disagreed and pointed out that Mr Fs account had been overdrawn 
when both benefit payments had credited his account. And if it refunded Mr F hed now owe 
the bank money. 
Mr F responded to the view and said that he wasnt really concerned about the bank closing 
his account. He just wanted his benefit money returned to him. He said he was also unhappy 
about the bank not having correct address details for him. And said it had changed his 
details without his consent.
Following the responses, the investigator reviewed things again and issued a further view. 
She said Mr F owed NatWest money at the time his benefit payments credited his account 
because his account was overdrawn, and Mr F would end up owing NatWest money if it 
refunded him his benefit payments. So she was no longer recommending NatWest refund 
the benefit payments to Mr F. She also said she didnt have enough evidence to conclude 
NatWest had changed Mr Fs address details without his consent. The investigator remained 
of the view that NatWest should pay Mr F £150 compensation for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused by not having access to his benefit funds.
NatWest agreed. Mr F didnt. He said he is now being pursued by DWP to repay in excess of 
£6,000 in benefit payments hed claimed. And that he now has to repay the money because 
he was living outside of the UK. He maintains that NatWest have witheld his benefit 
payments since 2021 which its not allowed to do. And wants the funds returned to him as he 
needs the money to repay the DWP debt. He also explained that he is struggling financially 
on a reduced income since returning to the UK.
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. After looking at all the 
available evidence I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following;
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr F and 
NatWest have said before reaching my provisional decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information NatWest 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr F, but Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered everything.
NatWest are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
it appears Mr Fs account flagged for review. 
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr F decided to stop banking with NatWest, it wouldnt 
have to explain why. Based on what NatWest has shared with me, Im satisfied their actions 
were wholly appropriate in the circumstances.
NatWest can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. NatWest have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Fs account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account with notice. Ive 
considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I agree NatWest were entitled to 
close the account and Im pleased to see they gave Mr F the full 60 day notice period to 
allow him to arrange other banking facilities  albeit Mr F has said he isnt concerned about 
the closure of his account. 
NatWest said it wrote to Mr F to let him know it had decided to close his account on 21 April 
2021, and sent the letter to the address it had registered for him on their systems. Mr F says 
he never received the closure letter and he only discovered there was a problem with his 
account when his bank card stopped working.  NatWest hasnt been able to provide a copy 
of the closure letter it says it sent to Mr F. Instead it has provided a copy of notes relating to 
Mr Fs account that show a closure letter was sent on 21 April 2021 to Mr F about its 
decision to close his account. 
The bank has said that it sent the letter to the address it had on record for Mr F at the time, 
which is in line with the terms and condtions of the account - albeit Mr F wouldnt have 
received the letter as he was overseas and appears to have been since at least early 2020. 
NatWest has also confirmed that a customer can change their contact details in person, 
online, via telephone banking or in writing.
Mr F says he has fulfilled his responsibilities as a customer and kept the bank updated about 
his addresses. I dont agree. I say this because it appears Mr F was living overseas. And 
from looking at the banks notes he didnt inform NatWest about this until June 2021. Mr F 
says he gave his address to a branch manager when changing it. But NatWest registered 
both the first line of the address and postcode incorrectly. He says it was then changed to an 
address related to his father without his knowledge or consent. And that the address change 
is reflected in the final response letters NatWest sent to Mr F.Ive looked at the address history NatWest held for Mr F and the final response letters sent 
to Mr F in June 2021 and November 2021. Ive also looked at the notes relating to the 
contact Mr F had with NatWest, and actions it took regarding his account between June 
2021 and September 2021. I havent seen any evidence that NatWest has changed Mr Fs 
address without his consent. But it does appear that the bank had the wrong address for 
Mr F. 
I say this because the final response letter NatWest sent to Mr F via email on 29 June 2021 
had a different post code, which Mr F says relates to an incorrect address.  I can also see 
from the contact notes that NatWest had a different address recorded for Mr F in June 2021 
and that his address details were incomplete. So Im not convinced NatWest had the right 
address information recorded for Mr F or how the bank informed Mr F that his account was 
going to be closed. Based on this Im not currently satsified that NatWest closed Mr Fs 
account in line with terms and conditions. However, Mr F should have kept the bank updated 
of his address abroad - but even taking that into consideration the bank had the wrong 
address so the notice to close letter probably wouldnt have been received by Mr F. Normally 
that would mean Mr F would be entitled to compensation because of the banks error but in 
this case, there is no impact on Mr F because he wouldnt have got the letter anyway. 
Ive next considered Mr Fs complaint about NatWest not allowing him access to his benefit 
payments. From looking at his account statement I can see that Mr F was making 
transactions up to to the time the account was closed  throughout the 60 day notice period.  
I can also see that Mr F received and spent benefit payments he received on 23 April 2021 
and 25 May 2021. So I cant say NatWest stopped Mr F accessing the funds in his account 
during the notice period. 
At the end of the notice period, Mr Fs account was overdrawn by just over £800. From 
looking at the account statements two benefit payments totalling just over £820 credited his 
account on 25 June 2021 and 26 July 2021. Because Mr Fs account was overdrawn these 
payments paid off his overdraft leaving him with a balance of just over £18 in credit. I know 
Mr F has said that NatWest denied him access to his benefit payments but at the time the 
account was overdrawn and the credits cleared the debt. So I cant see how Mr F has lost 
out financially. He owed the bank around £800  which was money hed had the benefit of in 
the months prior to when his account was closed. Ive also kept in mind what Mr F has told 
us about DWP pursuing him to repay the benefit money he received whilst living overseas. 
With this mind, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct NatWest to refund Mr F 
money he doesnt appear to be entitled to in the first place. 
Turning next to the service Mr F received from the bank. I think there were a number of 
customer service issues which have had an impact on Mr F. Individually, these werent 
significant. But when Mr F had to face multiple problems, I think the distress, frustration, 
annoyance, and inconvenience he experienced was compounded  particularly given his 
circumstances. 
Having looked at all the circumstances and the evidence, I think that the level of customer 
service fell below what Mr F could rightly expect to receive from NatWest. Although NatWest 
have apologised and paid Mr F £50 compensation, I dont think this goes far enough to fairly 
recognise the impact on Mr F.  NatWest told Mr F that it could pay his remaining balance into 
an bank account. However, this wasnt quite right. Before this could happen Mr F had to 
complete a funds release form. This wasnt explained to Mr F so he had to wait longer to 
access his balance. NatWest also incorrectly told Mr F he would be able to withdraw his 
funds at a branch. So Mr F wasted time visiting a branch. The bank also said a call it had 
had with Mr F had been wrongly disconnected.Taking everything into account, I think NatWest Bank should pay Mr F a further £100 
compensation to fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr F was caused  taking 
the total amount of compensation to £150.
NatWest accepted my provisional decision. Mr F didnt. In summary he said:
He is entitled to the £840 benefit money that was paid into his account and the bank 
should return this to him.
It is unfair that benefit money was used to repay his overdraft and he had a right of 
first appropriation of these funds 
The bank changed his address without his consent
He isnt concerned about the closure of his account
He wants compensation for the trouble and upset the banks actions caused him
Prior to issuing my decision I asked the investigator to get some more information from 
NatWest and Mr F about what had happened. In particular I asked Mr F for more information 
about his entitlement to the DWP payments he received, where he was living and the 
comments, he made in an email to our service on 5 April 2023 in which he said: also Im 
being asked to repay over £6,000 in benefit money over 18 months (including the £840) as I 
was out of the country.
Mr F responded on 18 June 2023 and said:
The email he sent to us on 5 April 2023 was sent very early in the morning and 
contained many grammatical mistakes, and should have read that the £840 wasnt 
included
He wasnt living overseas at the time and was in the UK when he received the 
payments so was entitled to the benefit money.
He provided paperwork showing he was able to claim DWP benefits since returning 
to the UK
He had complied with all requirements to be able to claim benefits
Mr F sent us a further response on 20 June 2023. He provided another letter hed received 
from DWP dated 16 June 2023 which stated DWP planned to refund excess money it had 
recovered from him. Mr F also said:
What the letter doesnt tell you is they asked me to repay the sanctions over 11 and 
half years (£6000, + repaid at £50 a month), INCLUDING THE £840 or whatever it 
was. The DWP isnt that unreasonable
He was living in the UK and there is a valid personal reason to explain the spending 
from his account overseas. So, I shouldnt rely on his bank statements as evidence 
he was living overseas
He wants the £840 that was paid into his account from DWP returned to him
 NatWest responded and said:
It suspected Mr F wasnt entitled to the DWP payments  
It didnt have a process to return the money to DWP
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr F has raised a number of concerns, which Ill now 
address below.
The crux of off Mr Fs complaint is that he wants the benefit money paid into his NatWest 
account refunded to him. In response to my provisional decision Mr F has made a number of 
representations about why he should be refunded. Hes also provided letters hes received 
from DWP he says supports why the money should be returned to him. 
Ive read all of Mr Fs submissions and looked at the paperwork hes submitted. Having done 
so, Im not convinced by Mr Fs explanation that the information in his email on 5 April 2023 
was incorrect due to grammatical errors. I say this because he repeated and expanded on 
the information in his email dated 20 April 2023, going into detail about the repayment 
arrangements hed made with DWP about repaying the payments hed received. So, Im not 
satisfied that this information shows Mr F is entitled to the benefit payments that were paid 
into his NatWest account. 
Mr F has also submitted that he was in the UK, so he was able to claim DWP payments. 
Hes said that I shouldnt rely on his bank statements which shows activity on his account 
taking place overseas. Hes said he has personal reasons to explain the overseas spend. 
But he hasnt elaborated any further. Ive thought about what Mr F has said about his 
whereabouts and entitlement to the funds.  But Im not persuaded by what hes said. I say 
this because Mr F hasnt disputed any of the transactions that were made outside of the UK. 
So, I think it is reasonable to conclude that it was Mr F making the transactions overseas. 
Given the length of time and frequency of the transactions I also think it reasonable to 
conclude that Mr F was living outside of the UK, and therefore, according to DWP 
regulations, he was not entitled to claim DWP benefits for as long as he did.
Mr F has argued that he has the first right of appropriation to the benefit funds paid into his 
account. And that it was unfair for NatWest to withhold the funds from him and use them to 
clear his overdraft. At the time Mr Fs account was overdrawn and the benefit credits cleared 
the debt. So I cant see how Mr F has lost out financially. He owed the bank around £800  
which was money hed had the benefit of in the months prior to when his account was 
closed. Ive also kept in mind that if NatWest had returned the money to DWP hed still owe 
this money to the bank. And whilst I appreciate Mr Fs responses to my provisonal decision, 
Ive still not seen any evidence that persuades me Mr F was entitled to the DWP money in 
the first place  despite the fact that NatWest used the money to clear Mr Fs overdraft. With 
this mind, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct NatWest to refund Mr F money he 
doesnt appear to be entitled to in the first place. 
Mr F has also said that NatWest changed his address without his consent. Ive looked at the 
address history NatWest held for Mr F and the final response letters the bank sent to him in 
June 2021 and November 2021. Ive also looked at the notes relating to the contact Mr F 
had with NatWest, and actions it took regarding his account between June 2021 and 
September 2021. Having done so, I havent seen any evidence that NatWest changed 
Mr Fs address without his consent. But based on what Mr F has told us and from looking at 
the information available to me, including the banks cusomer notes dated 20 April 2021, and 
final response letters NatWest sent to Mr F, it does appear that the bank had the wrong 
address recorded for Mr F. Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr F. NatWest said it sent the notice to close letter 
to the addresss it had on file for him, but this was incorrect. So I think its unlikely Mr F would 
have received the letter. As a result he wouldnt have been aware the bank was closing his 
account. Normally that would mean Mr F would be entitled to compensation because of the 
banks error but in this case, there is no impact on Mr F because he wouldnt have got the 
letter anyway due to him being overseas. I also havent seen any other evidence that this 
had a detrimental impact on Mr F. So, I wont be awarding Mr F any compensation for the 
bank having the wrong address recorded for him.
Turning next to the service Mr F received from the bank. As I said in my provisional decision, 
I think there were a number of customer service issues which have had an impact on Mr F. 
NatWest have accepted the service it provided Mr F fell short. It has apologised and paid 
Mr F £50 compensation, but I dont think this goes far enough to fairly recognise the impact 
on Mr F.  
NatWest told Mr F that it could pay his remaining balance into an bank account. However, 
this wasnt quite right. Before this could happen Mr F had to complete a funds release form. 
But this wasnt explained to Mr F so he had to wait longer to access his balance  10 days 
instead of the usual 3 -5 days.  NatWest also incorrectly told Mr F he would be able to 
withdraw his funds at a branch  The bank also told Mr F thay he would be able to access his 
account balance if he visited a branch, again this wasnt right. So Mr F wasted time visiting a 
branch. I note too that when Mr F tried to call NatWest to find out how he could access his 
funds staff wrongly disconnected the call. So, Im satisifed Mr F was caused trouuble and 
upset by NatWests actions.
Individually, these werent significant. But when Mr F had to face multiple problems, I think 
the distress, frustration, annoyance, and inconvenience he experienced was compounded  
particularly given his circumstances. Having looked at all the circumstances and the 
evidence, I think that the level of customer service fell below what Mr F could rightly expect 
to receive from NatWest. Taking everything into account, I think NatWest Bank should pay 
Mr F a further £100 compensation to fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr F 
was caused by its poor service  taking the total amount of compensation to £150.
In conclusion, whilst I take on board Mr Fs comments, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. My final decision therefore remains that I partly uphold the complaint 
and direct NatWest to settle the complaint as detailed below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partly uphold M Fs complaint 
against National Westminster Bank Plc. 
To put things right, National Westminster Bank Plc should do the following:
Pay Mr F a further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its poor 
service
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman