DRN-1048494
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc charged him interest on his credit card after it 
had agreed not to.
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card with Bank of Scotland, which had a promotional offer of a nine-
month interest free period. Mr M was given conflicting information about when the offer 
would end and he said that it ended earlier than he had expected, in August 2017. He 
complained to the bank about this.
The bank upheld Mr Ms complaint, based on conflicting information that he had been given, 
and arranged a payment of £136 compensation to his credit card account. It also offered to 
waive interest for three months, which included his March 2019 credit card statement.
But Mr M was charged interest on his March 2019 statement. He complained to the bank 
about this again and it upheld his complaint. The bank confirmed that it was a mistake that 
interest had been charged in March 2019. It refunded the interest it had charged and made a 
further payment of £50 to cover the trouble and upset caused. The bank also agreed to 
waive interest for the next two months. 
Mr M contacted the bank in June 2019 to complain that he had been charged interest on his 
June 2019 statement. The bank investigated and said that he had been correctly charged.  
Mr M complained to this service. He didnt think he should have been charged interest in 
June 2019 for May 2019. He wanted the interest charges refunded and to be paid 
compensation. Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that the bank had 
correctly applied the charge in June 2019 because this was in line with what the bank said it 
would do in its letter of March 2019.
As Mr M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has clearly had a number of issues with his credit card and the application of interest, 
which I am sure has been very frustrating. The bank has considered each of his complaints 
and has given him compensation payments, waived the interest and extended the interest 
free period on a couple of occasions. The issue I need to decide is whether the bank has 
charged him correctly and in line with what it said it would do when it wrote to him in March 
2019.
Bank of Scotlands terms and conditions say:
We provide you with a statement each month there has been activity on your account, a 
payment is required or if you owe us anything at your statement date. The statement shows the balance from your previous statement, all activity (payments, transactions, fees and 
charges) on your account since that statement, and the balance owed at your statement 
date.
In its letter of March 2019, the bank accepted it had made a mistake when it added interest 
to the March 2019 statement and said I have now added another waiver for the next two 
statements which means there will be no interest added to your account until your statement 
is produced early June 2019.  
The letter was dated March 2019, which meant that the next two statements were those 
issued in April 2019 and May 2019. Looking at the terms and conditions, these explain that 
[t]he statement shows the balance from your previous statement [and], all activity 
(payments, transactions, fees and charges) on your account since that statement. In Mr Ms 
case, the April 2019 statement was for the activity in March 2019 to the start of April 2019 
and the May 2019 statement was for the activity in April 2019 to the start of May 2019. This 
meant that any charges for activity after the May statement was issued were outside of the 
period for which Bank of Scotland had offered to waive the charges. On that basis, I think 
that what the bank said was clear and that it correctly applied the interest for May on the 
June 2019 statement. 
I understand that Mr M wanted to ensure that interest was only applied to his credit card 
account from the correct date. I hope this reassures him that it was and that the bank didnt 
do anything wrong.  
On that basis, Im satisfied that there is no reason for the bank to refund the interest charged 
or for it to pay Mr M compensation. However, Im aware that the bank refunded the interest 
charges as a gesture of goodwill as part of another complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman