DRN-3969792
The complaint
Mr A complains that St James's Place UK plc (SJP) has failed to administer his pension 
savings in an effective manner. Specifically he has complained about three aspects of the 
administration of his pension savings. He complains that;
SJP failed to pay a drawdown from his pension savings in a reasonable time.
SJP failed to complete the transfer of his pension investments into a money market 
fund before trading in one of those investments was suspended.
SJP failed to transfer his pension savings to a new provider in a reasonable period of 
time.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought some of the complaint should be upheld and what SJP needed to do in order 
to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
One of our investigators has explained to Mr A that his complaint about the 
drawdown payment has been made too late. Mr A hasnt disagreed with that 
assessment, so I wont be considering that part of his complaint any further. In this 
decision I will only be looking at the other two aspects of Mr As complaint.
Mr A held pension savings with SJP. He received advice and support on those 
pension savings from an appointed representative of SJP Wealth (a separate 
regulated firm). This complaint does not deal with any aspects of the advice Mr A 
received from his financial advisor. It only deals with the administration of his pension 
savings by SJP.
In March 2020 Mr A says he became concerned about a potential downturn in the 
value of his pension investments in response to the start of the coronavirus 
pandemic. He instructed SJP, via his financial advisor, to transfer all his pension 
investments into SJPs money market fund.
SJP says it received that request on 17 March, before its processing cut off. But it 
failed to confirm the instruction for a couple of days. Part of Mr As pension savings 
were held in SJPs Property Fund. Trading in that fund was suspended on 18 March. 
So, although SJP received Mr As instruction before the relevant trading cut off, it 
was unable to sell his investments in the property fund for some time.
 
SJP accepted that it had been in error in not processing Mr As instruction on receipt. 
So, once the suspension of the property fund had been lifted, it agreed to backdate 
the sale of Mr As holdings in that fund to 18 March. And it gave him a £100 gift 
voucher as an apology for its error.
In October 2020 Mr A decided to transfer his pension savings to another provider. 
SJP received a request for information on Mr As pension savings from the new 
provider. But its response failed to provide all the information that had been 
requested. It didnt send all the required information until 19 November. At that point 
the new provider sent SJP a request for the transfer of the pension savings via the 
automated Origo Options system.
SJP failed to identify that the transfer included both crystallised and uncrystallised 
funds. It wasnt able to process the transfer of the crystallised funds using the 
automated system. So a couple of weeks later it asked the new provider for further 
paperwork to support the transfer request. So ultimately, SJP accepts that both the 
transfers of the crystallised and uncrystallised funds were delayed by its error  the 
crystallised funds delay being around a month longer than the uncrystallised funds.
When Mr A complained about the delay SJP paid him £250 for the inconvenience 
hed been caused. And it said that it would pay further compensation to reflect any 
investment returns that had been lost due to the delay.
It seems to me that both parties are now generally in agreement with what happened, 
and more importantly what should have happened, in the administration of Mr As 
pension savings during 2020. So in this decision I only need to decide what SJP 
needs to do in order to put things right. But it is possible that, when correcting the 
error relating to the property fund, any compensation paid will increase the value of 
Mr As pension savings that were transferred to the new provider. So the correct 
sequencing of the compensation calculations is something that SJP should take into 
account when calculating the overall compensation due to Mr A.
Error relating to property fund
SJP accepts that it should have transferred Mr As pension savings from the property 
fund before it was suspended in March 2020. So I think it is right that, when dealing 
in the fund restarted, the sale of Mr As holdings was backdated to the relevant price 
before the suspension. So I dont think Mr A has lost out as a result of any changes 
in the price of the property fund during the period of the suspension.
But Mr A was unable to access that part of his pension savings during the period of 
the suspension. I am satisfied that, if nothing had gone wrong, the part of Mr As 
pension savings that was held in the property fund would have remained invested 
along with his remaining pension savings in SJPs money market fund. So SJP 
should account to Mr A for any investment returns he might have received from the 
money market fund during the period of the suspension of the property fund. Should 
there have been any positive returns during that period, Mr A has lost out, and SJP 
should increase that part of Mr As pension savings to what they would have been 
worth had they been invested in the money market fund from the time the transfer 
should have happened.
There is no doubt that, during a period of market instability, Mr A would have been 
concerned to see a part of his pension savings held in a suspended property fund 
rather than the relatively less risky money market fund that he had instructed. So I do 
think a further payment should be made to reflect that distress. SJP has already paid 
Mr A £100 in this regard, but I think an additional payment of £100 is warranted.
Delays to the transfer of Mr As pensions savings to the new provider.SJP has agreed that, considering its normal processing timelines, it would have been 
reasonable for Mr As pension savings to be transferred to the new provider and 
reinvested by 16 November 2020. The actual transfers, of the uncrystallised and 
crystallised funds, didnt complete until 1 December 2020 and 13 January 2021 
respectively.
 
So I think it is right that SJP should compensate Mr A for any investment returns he 
missed out on due to the delays to the transfers. Mr A has explained that his 
agreement with his new financial advisor was that his pension savings would be 
reinvested as soon as they were transferred. And I can see that is exactly what 
happened. I have no reason to doubt that Mr A would have taken the same 
investment approach had his pension savings been transferred sooner.
The investment approach that Mr A took was based on the use of a model portfolio. 
So it is relatively straightforward to estimate the performance that Mr As pension 
investments would have achieved by looking at the performance of the model 
portfolio. There is no need to consider the individual investments that Mr A actually 
made since they would mirror those in the model portfolio. And taking that approach 
also ensures that any changes Mr A made to his pension investments over the 
following years are fairly represented in the calculation of the loss he made.
SJP accepted our investigators findings, based on the redress methodology that Ive 
set out above, on 21 March 2022. At that point Mr As new advisor provided details of 
the growth that would have been seen on Mr As pension savings if they had been 
transferred on time, compared with their actual value. Those calculations, that have 
been shared with SJP, showed that Mr As total investment loss, on both the 
crystallised and uncrystallised amounts, equalled £26,400.62.
But I think it reasonable that loss estimate should be recalculated as at the date of 
any final decision along these lines. And due to market conditions since the original 
calculation was performed, I think it is possible that a revised calculation might show 
that the loss has been reduced.
SJP accepted our investigators findings in March 2022. At that time it could have 
paid the compensation that was due to Mr A. And as I explained earlier that 
compensation would have needed to be paid directly to Mr A since making the 
payment into his pension would have affected the protection that he held against 
changes to the lifetime allowance. But Im not persuaded that, although the funds 
would have been held outside his pension savings, I have any reasonable grounds to 
conclude they would have been invested differently. So Im currently persuaded that 
it would be fair to assume that the compensation that was calculated in March, would 
have experienced a similar change in value to that seen by Mr As other pension 
investments.
So I am currently minded that the compensation due to Mr A should reasonably be 
recalculated as at the date of any final decision that I issue. So that means it should 
be based on the investment returns to that date, and so a further assessment will be 
required from Mr As investment manager.
Although the resolution of this compensation has been protracted, I am not currently 
persuaded that I should add any further compensatory interest for the period that 
Mr A has been without the payment. I dont consider that SJP had any legal 
obligation to pay that money to him at that time  that obligation only arises once 
Mr A accepts any final decision that I issue.But I do consider that a further payment should be made in respect of the distress 
and inconvenience that Mr A has been caused by the delay to his pension transfer 
and the resolution of his complaint. As I said earlier SJP has already paid Mr A £250 
in that regard. I think a further payment of £100 would be fair here.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr A has said that he accepts my provisional decision, but asked for 
some further clarification on how the redress will be calculated - I will deal with those queries 
later in this decision. SJP also accepted my findings, but said that it didnt agree with how Id 
asked it to compensate Mr A. For ease, Im reproducing below a part of what SJP has said. 
But I want to reassure SJP that I have read, and carefully considered, the entirety of its 
response. SJP said;
We have to try and put a client into as closely as possible to the financial position 
they would have been in had things turned out differently. In circumstances like this 
one, we would typically compare the latest overall valuation of the units added by the 
actual transfer against latest overall valuation of the units that would have been 
added by an assumed earlier transfer if this was invested on the same basis. This 
confirms the investment performance achieved by each transfer and we provide 
redress for the difference if the assumed value is higher.
 
We obtain the detail needed to allow for the assessment by either asking the 
receiving scheme confirm the investment details or for the client for the contract note 
they received when the investment was confirmed to them. It either are not available, 
we will look at alterative measurements such as the model portfolio investment 
performance data you have used or benchmarking. 
This approach allows us to capture the ongoing impact of an investment delay is one 
that is aligned with the approach we have been asked to use by FOS when 
assessing potential losses. This is different from the one used in the proposed 
resolution as the main element essentially only captures the investment performance 
achieved while the transfer was held out of investment. 
This element captures the investment growth achieved from assumed investment 
date to the actual investment date. Had this growth been held in in the pension, the 
potential for this to be realised is only available if it was withdrawn to access this as a 
pension benefits. 25% of this would be taken as a tax-free cash sum from the 
uncrystallised transfer growth and the remaining balance from this and the full 
crystallised transfer growth would be taken as a taxable income. The tax deduction 
from the taxable income is calculated using the clients marginal rate of income tax at 
retirement and it is normally reasonable to assume they would be basic rate tax 
payer at this time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully 
considered the submissions that have been made by Mr A and by SJP. Where the evidence 
is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
Ive thought carefully about what SJP has said about the form that the redress payable to 
Mr A should take  the basis of which I have set out above. Having done so I cannot agree 
that SJPs proposals form a fair method of compensating Mr A as I will now go on to explain.
Mr As pension transfer was delayed by SJP. During that time his pension savings were 
effectively held in cash so didnt benefit from the investment returns that his proposed 
investments would have generated. It is clear that the missed investment returns Mr A 
experienced during the delay are the responsibility of SJP.
But Mr As losses didnt end at that point. His pension savings would have continued to have 
been invested after that time, so any growth that had been achieved would have gained 
further compounded returns from future investment performance. So it is right that the 
assessment of Mr As lost investment returns continues to the date of this final decision.
The approach that SJP has suggested would imply that, once the transfer had been 
completed, Mr A withdrew the additional growth from his pension. That is unlikely in my 
opinion, and not supported by his actual actions. So leaving his funds invested would mean 
they wouldnt be subject to any income tax on withdrawal (nor would they benefit from the 
tax-free status of a pension commencement lump sum).
I also dont think it appropriate to simply take a snapshot of Mr As investments at the time of 
transfer. Mr A has appointed an investment manager to look after his pension savings. One 
of the obvious potential advantages of that approach is that his pension investments can be 
altered from time to time to reflect changing sentiment in the markets and ensure his 
investments are spread across different asset classes to match his attitude to risk at any 
time. That has been achieved through the use of a model portfolio. It is the performance of 
that model portfolio that best represents the investment performance of Mr As pension 
savings from the date the transfer should have happened, to the date of this final decision.
The calculation of the performance of Mr As pension investments will need to be undertaken 
as at the date of this final decision. I understand that Mr A has already liaised with his 
investment manager, and it stands ready to provide the necessary information to SJP. 
However, taking account of Mr As concerns about the time it has taken so far for his 
complaint to be resolved I think it reasonable to set a four-week deadline for the payment of 
any compensation to him. If that time is exceeded then I will direct SJP to pay additional 
compensatory interest to Mr A.Putting things right
Error relating to property fund
SJP should assess whether the part of Mr As pension savings that remained suspended 
within the property fund would have received any investment returns had it been immediately 
placed into the money market fund.
If any investment returns would have arisen, Mr A has lost out. SJP should calculate the 
amount of that loss up to the date that the pension funds should have been transferred to the 
new provider. SJP should also take account of any higher amount when assessing the loss 
suffered by Mr A due to the delayed transfer (see below).
Delays to the transfer of Mr As pensions savings to the new provider.
SJP should determine, using the information to be provided by Mr As investment manager, 
the notional value of Mr As current pension, as at the date of this final decision, had his 
pension funds been transferred and reinvested in that new plan on 16 November 2020 
(including any returns in the money market fund as set out above). If the calculated amount 
is higher than the actual value of Mr As current pension plan, as at the date of this final 
decision, then Mr A has suffered a loss
Overall treatment of compensation
Normally I would have proposed the compensation to be paid into Mr A's pension plan. 
However doing so would conflict with his existing protection.
So SJP should pay the total compensation direct to Mr A. But had it been possible to pay 
into his pension plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's expected marginal rate of tax 
during retirement. Given how Mr A expects to utilise those pension savings its reasonable to 
assume that he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at that time, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, as Mr A would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
I should be clear however that the above deduction is only notional. It will not result in SJP 
making any payment of deducted tax to HMRC. And so it will not be possible for Mr A to 
reclaim any of the tax that has been notionally deducted.
Should SJP fail to pay the compensation to Mr A within four weeks of receipt of Mr As 
acceptance of this final decision, and the performance data from his financial advisor, it 
should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to the compensation from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires SJP to take off 
tax from this interest. SJP must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one
In addition SJP should pay a further £200 to Mr A in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by both errors.My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, is that I uphold 
Mr As complaint and direct St James's Place UK plc to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman