DRN-3696291
The complaint
Mr P complains that St James's Place UK plc (SJP) issued an incorrect valuation statement 
of his pension. He further complains that despite his best efforts and numerous attempts to 
query the error, it took 128 days for SJP to correct its error. He asks to be compensated for 
the worry, upset and the amount of time it took SJP to realise its error.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Mr P holds a pension plan with SJP.
He received a quarterly statement in September 2019 and was concerned that the unit 
holding looked odd. On calculating his holding, he became aware there were units missing 
from his plan which equated to his pension being undervalued by over £8,000.
Mr P queried this statement as the figures didnt add up and he felt certain an error had 
occurred. He raised a complaint and was told there had been an administrative error. 
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr P asked for further explanation as to what had happened.
Ultimately, Mr P became embroiled in protracted correspondence with SJP, writing some 15 
letters and emails, too which he either received no response or limited further clarification, 
prompting further correspondence.
SJP issued three final response letters, in December 2019, Feb 2020 and finally
December 2020. It was only after this third response that all the complaint points had been
answered to Mr Ps satisfaction. 
SJP acknowledged there had been an error which it had fully corrected but accepted there 
had been a number of delays, it apologised and offered Mr P £600 compensation but Mr P 
felt this did not reflect the worry and upset this matter had caused him and so he brought his 
complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr P, he reviewed all the correspondence. He 
acknowledged the delays Mr P had experienced and as a result the worry and upset this 
matter had caused. He was of the view as the matter had now been corrected, he felt SJP 
had offered fair and reasonable compensation, so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr P disagreed. He is of the view that had he not put hours of work into calculating his units 
and being able to point out the error, SJP may never had corrected it. He felt as it lost his 
units for 128 days and undervalued his plan by over £8,000, it should suffer a similar cost for 
failing to correct its error until Mr Ps persistent correspondence resulted in appropriate 
action. Mr P says he spent hours working out the calculations to determine an error had in 
fact occurred and when he brought that to SJPs attention it failed to treat him fairly or act 
with the appropriate duty of care he expected. As a result, it took repeated correspondence 
to get any action and this caused Mr P undue worry and upset. 
He asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings I explained I had summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties and that Id done so using my own words. I explained I wasnt going to respond to 
every single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, I focussed on what I find to be the key issues here. 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I said in this case, there is no dispute that an error was made, which has since been 
corrected. The issue here, is the length of time it took SJP to acknowledge its mistake and to 
correct, the delays in responding to Mr Ps correspondence and then failing to provide 
satisfactory answers as to the reasons for the error in the first place and the impact all this 
had on Mr P.
The dispute lies in what is an appropriate, fair, and reasonable compensatory amount for the 
trouble and upset this matter has caused. I went on to explain:
Why I cant award upwards of £8,000 compensation in this case
I understand why Mr P may find it entirely reasonable to suggest SJP suffer a similar cost to 
that of his missing units and consequential undervaluing of his plan. But as our investigator 
has said it isnt role of this service to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In this case, SJP has, eventually acknowledged its mistake and corrected it and so Mr P 
hasnt suffered a financial loss to his pension plan. What I am deciding is what impact this 
matter has had on Mr P in terms of the worry and upset and looking to reach a fair and 
reasonable compensation for that.
Its also fair to say the awards for trouble and upset are relatively modest, again reflecting 
the fact this is a free service and alternative to the courts.
That said, I explained I do not wish to underplay the impact this has had on Mr P. In this 
case I said I was persuaded that SJP hasnt gone far enough to put things right for Mr P.
Why I said I dont think SJP has done enough to put things right
Mr P is in his eighties and had a serious health condition, both of these factors should have 
meant, as a consumer, SJP acted with a greater duty of care, due to his vulnerability. Now I 
should make it clear that despite his age and his health condition, Mr P should be applauded 
for the sheer effort he undertook in an attempt to get this matter resolved satisfactorily. 
It is entirely reasonable given his age and health condition that he would wish to ensure that 
his significant investment was being correctly managed and that if, as in this case, an error 
had occurred, it would be swiftly acknowledge and rectified, so as to give Mr P the  
confidence he clearly needs in his pension administrator.But it took Mr P, 15 letters either making complaints, chasing up complaints, chasing up 
responses alongside his calculations to have this matter fully addressed. 
It took, SJP three attempts at final responses and as Mr P points out 128 days of 
undervalued funds. I appreciate Mr P feels very strongly that had he drawn down his funds 
or transferred them he feels the missing units would have been lost forever. Again, I 
understand his strength of feeling but I cant compensate him for something that hasnt 
occurred or judge what may have happened.
Im persuaded this matter has had a much greater impact on Mr P than SJP has understood 
and as such Im of the view that it should increase the compensation offered in recognition of 
that.
SJP has pointed to Mr Ps previous occupation, but it should also be noted that he has been 
retired for some time and is gentleman in his eighties. I have also noted that SJP issued a 
covering letter suggesting the compensation should be £750 but enclosing a cheque of 
£250.
There has been a need here to issue three final response letters following the original error 
at the time of transfer, causing the initial incorrect values to be displayed on the quarterly 
statement issued in September 2019.  SJP was meant to apply a fix and this wasnt done, 
and it also didnt make Mr P aware that the figures would need adjusting and shouldnt be 
relied on. So, I dont think SJP has treated Mr P fairly, nor did it take steps to minimise the 
impact this matter has had on him. It seems there has been a catalogue of errors in this case 
that has taken its toll on Mr P, at a time when he should have the confidence that his 
investment is secure and well managed, and for these reasons I said I was persuaded the 
compensatory offer should be increased.
I said in my view for the reasons I have set out, that a fair and reasonable compensation for 
the errors and delays in resolving this matter and the impact that has had on Mr P should be 
increased to £1000.
Mr P accepted my provisional findings.
SJP also accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have agreed with my provisional findings and not made any 
additional submissions for my consideration, it follows that I have reached the same 
conclusion as that set out in provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct St James's Place UK plc to:
Pay Mr P £1000 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman