DRN-3731246
The complaint
S, a limited Company, says Oddie Dalton & Co. Ltd, a broker, sold it a commercial risks 
insurance policy that was not fit for purpose. As such it feels the policy was mis-sold. 
S wants Oddie Dalton to provide retrospective cover for any claims that arise out of the 
insurance it sold as well as compensation for the time its taken S to deal with the issues in 
dispute and putting them right.
S is represented by a new broker, but I shall refer to S as making its own submissions for 
ease of reference.  
What happened
S took out a commercial risks insurance policy through Oddie Dalton in 2015 and continued 
to renew its cover with them until 2021. A month after renewing the 2021 policy, S 
transferred its business away to another broker and cancelled the existing policy, taking out 
a new one in its place.
The dispute thats the subject of this complaint concerns the 2020 and 2021 policy S took 
out with Oddie Dalton. Those policies covered several things including employers and public 
liability. 
S says it didnt become aware that the policies it took out with Oddie Dalton were unsuitable 
until it went to a new broker. In doing so S says it was advised that the work it was 
undertaking in a different country during the 2020 policy period and beyond might not have 
been covered. S feels the cover Oddie Dalton sold it was not fit for purpose because the 
policies werent intended to cover extended works abroad and that is the sort of work that S 
was engaged in between 2020 and 2021.
Oddie Dalton say that the cover they arranged was based on the information S gave them 
before both policies were taken out and that they checked and confirmed the position on 
cover with the relevant insurer every time S made new notifications of work it was 
conducting abroad during the 2020 policy period. They feel the cover they sold S was 
suitable.
S doesnt agree. Our investigator considered S complaint and concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that Oddie Dalton did arrange suitable cover for S in accordance with the 
information they had been provided with before selling the insurance and that they checked 
that cover was available during the life of the policy on each occasion that S contacted them 
to make a new disclosure about conducting work abroad. S doesnt agree, so the matter has 
been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
When a policyholder complains that a policy sold to it is not fit for purpose, we look at 
whether the insurance was mis-sold. In this case the policy was sold on an advised basis. 
That means that Oddie Dalton needed to both provide S with enough information to decide 
whether to take out the insurance and ensure it was suitable for its demands and needs. Id 
like to point out that when making that determination, there is no requirement for a demands 
and needs statement to appear in a specific format to be valid. 
In this case, Ive carried out a detailed review of the information both parties provided, 
having regard to the information Oddie Dalton had available to them before the 2020 policy 
was put in place and the further information S gave them during the policy period and 
beyond. I considered whether Oddie Dalton ever disclosed that it would be undertaking 
extended works abroad beyond a few weeks or months at a time. Having done so, Im not 
satisfied this was disclosed whilst they kept their business with Oddie Dalton. Rather it 
seems that Oddie Dalton first became aware of a new extended contract of works that S was 
undertaking abroad for a period of 2-3 years in June 2021- some time after the 2021 policy 
renewed and after S had already appointed new brokers.
S says that the extended works it carried out wouldnt have been covered by the insurer and 
cites the disclosures it made to Oddie Dalton as evidence that it was engaged in ongoing 
works abroad. I dont agree. Firstly, I havent seen anything to suggest S disclosed any 
extended works abroad before the 2020 or 2021 policy was put in place- so Oddie Dalton 
arranged and supplied insurance that covered S based on this. And the disclosures S did 
make during the life of the 2020 policy didnt suggest the work was extended in nature. For 
example, in May 2020 S told Oddie Dalton it was quoting for work abroad. When Oddie 
Dalton asked for details of this, S said it planned to be on site abroad for two months. And I 
can see that each time S made a disclosure of working abroad, Oddie Dalton checked this 
with the current insurer who confirmed cover for what it considered to be incidental works. 
So as far as the 2020 policy is concerned, I think Oddie Dalton did supply cover that was 
suitable for Ss needs and circumstances based on the information they had and checked 
that the product was still suitable based on disclosures S made along the way. 
In March 2021 S said they would continue to work abroad for the next financial year and that 
they were still working on a project in another country. Oddie Dalton sourced a policy on 
similar terms to the old one with a different insurer because the old insurer was no longer 
offering cover on those terms.  S feels the policy Oddie Dalton offered it at the 2021 renewal 
was unsuitable for the same reasons its cited in relation to the previous policy. 
As I understand it, S cancelled this policy and took out new cover because its new broker 
advised it there wasnt cover for the extended works S was doing abroad. So, the period Im 
looking at when considering any wrongdoing by Oddie Dalton is whether they sold S a 
suitable policy at renewal and if not whether that caused S any detriment. Arguably Oddie 
Dalton could have asked for more information about the length of time S intended to work 
abroad for before it offered it a new policy, but I also appreciate that S didnt disclose that the 
length of the contract could amount to anything more than a few months at a time like the 
previous disclosures it had made. Simply saying it would continue working abroad for the 
next financial year and that they were still working abroad doesnt make clear that a lengthy 
project was likely for which specific cover was needed. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest it was ever disclosed to Oddie Dalton that the contract abroad would last for 
2/3years. Even on the evidence of Ss new broker, it appears that they werent aware of this 
issue until they discussed another that contract S had abroad in June 2021 with it. So, this 
wasnt information S was openly disclosing as a requirement for cover, rather it was subject 
to a fact find by S new broker. S is a commercial entity so Id expect it to be aware of its needs when purchasing cover, 
such that it would disclose them. And given S queried cover with Oddie Dalton for short 
durations of work abroad on a few occasions and Oddie Dalton asked for details of that to 
check if this was available, I dont think it was unreasonable for Oddie Dalton to expect S to 
disclose any material change in its cover requirements before it offered a renewal of 
insurance on the same terms. In addition, there was an onus on S to ensure they read the 
policy information provided to it to satisfy itself that the cover was suitable for its needs and 
circumstances. Because of this I dont think I can say that Oddie Dalton did anything wrong, 
based on the information it had available to it. And given the background, I dont think S 
reference to works abroad continuing into the next financial year gave Oddie Dalton enough 
of an indication that such works would be anything other than incidental in the same way the 
previous works were considered by the previous insurer.
I understand that S feels the work it undertook abroad during the 2020 and 2021 policy 
period might not cover it for the extended works it undertook. From what Ive seen, the 2020 
insurer provided confirmation of incidental cover being available based on the disclosures 
that S made. If the work S undertook went beyond those disclosures and the insurer later 
declines cover for retrospective claims based on this, thats not something I can hold Oddie 
Dalton responsible for because I think they arranged a suitable policy based on the 
information S supplied them with and made the relevant disclosures to the insurer when S 
confirmed this to them. And because I think Oddie Dalton arranged suitable cover based on 
the information available to it in 2021, I cant say that they should be responsible for any 
claims the insurer for that policy period might retrospectively reject in relation to periods of 
extended work abroad. 
Oddie Dalton has said that if theyd been made aware of a 2/3 year contract abroad coming 
into play in June 2021, they too would have had to cancel the insurance they put in place 
with the 2021 insurer because it wouldnt have covered extended works. So, the outcome of 
S's disclosure wouldve been the same, whoever it was made to. The fact that S chose to 
make this disclosure to a different broker, rather than Oddie Dalton in my view makes little 
difference. The outcome of that disclosure wouldve ultimately led S to the same place.
Finally, I know S is unhappy about the way in which its complaint was investigated by Oddie 
Dalton. As the investigator explained, thats not something I can comment on as it doesnt 
fall within our remit because it relates to complaint handling as a stand-alone activity. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ss complaint against Oddie Dalton & Co. Ltd 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-VennOmbudsman