DRN-3363716
The complaint
Mr K complains that Interestme Financial Planning Limited (Interestme) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his Personal Pension (PP) from his existing provider  provider A  to a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider - provider B. 
In 2019, I understand that the SIPP with provider B was moved to another provider  
provider C, at Interestmes suggestion. 
Mr K is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr K had a PP with provider A which had started in 1991. I understand that Mr K was initially 
contacted by a third party in 2017. They put him in touch with Interestme - who at the time 
traded under a different name  in order to have a pension review.
At that time, Mr Ks PP with provider A was valued at £33,025.86. And he wasnt contributing 
to it. It was invested in two funds that were rated as medium to high and high risk.  And had 
an Annual Management Charge (AMC) of 1.1%. 
Mr K also had an occupational pension. But he didnt discuss this with Interestme. And I 
have very little information about it. 
Interestme carried out a fact find in March 2017. They also produced a Suitability Report 
dated 2 June 2017. This recorded the following information about Mr K:
- he was 45 at the time, divorced and had two dependent children. 
- he was employed. And earned a regular monthly income of around £2,900. 
- He wanted to retire by age 65 and to be mortgage-free. 
- No specific savings or investments were recorded. But the report stated that Mr K 
had other sources of income in retirement. 
- His Attitude To Risk (ATR) was recorded as Lower to medium risk.
The adviser recommended that Mr K transferred his existing PP to a SIPP with provider B. 
He recommended he invested in the Defensive Portfolio managed by another provider. 
The adviser acknowledged in the Suitability Report that Mr Ks existing pension plans had 
produced positive returns, but said that these had been attained under favourable economic 
conditions. He felt Mr K would benefit from an investment manager who would manage his 
pension in a way that would avoid it losing value. And who had the ability to react to market 
events and de-risk his pension when appropriate. 
The Suitability Report gave the following reasons that the adviser had recommended that Mr 
K switched his PP to a SIPP with provider B and chose a new investment strategy: 
Mr K wouldnt incur any penalties on switching from his existing provider
He wouldnt lose any guarantees from his existing provider
He would have a wider fund choice and greater flexibility when he eventually took his 
retirement benefits. 
The report stated that the recommended solution was move expensive than Mr Ks existing 
PP. But felt that the potential returns and investment strategy recommended justified the 
increased costs. 
The Suitability Report listed the charges for the advisers recommendation as follows:
Initial advice and implementation charge of 3% of the transfer
Pension wrapper charge of £114 each year 
0.66% Investment management charge
0.15% dealing charge
Additionally, there would be an ongoing service charge of 1.00% each year. 
The fact find listed the drivers for Mr Ks objectives as: Advice, Performance and Lower 
Cost.
The Suitability Report gave more detail on those objectives: 
You have never had a review and would like to speak with an adviser.
You believe positive long-term investment returns play the most important role in growing 
your pension.
You would be happy to look into the possibility of switching your pension to a contract with 
lower costs.
Mr K completed an application form to open the recommended SIPP on 30 June 2017. The 
funds were transferred from his existing provider and invested in line with the investment 
managers Total Return Defensive portfolio. 
I understand that in February 2019, Interestme reviewed the SIPP and recommended it be 
moved to provider C. They said that the annual pension wrapper charge would increase from 
£114 to £150. Mr K followed this recommendation and his SIPP moved to provider C in late 
March 2019.
Mr K complained to Interestme through his CMC in March 2021. They made the following 
complaint points:
- Interestme had been negligent in the advice theyd given Mr K. And this had led to a 
financial loss of approximately £4,287.38. Mr K wanted to be put back to the position 
he wouldve been in if hed not received the advice to transfer
- Interestme had told Mr K that he would make more money by making the transfer than his current pension would provide.
- They said Interestme had failed to demonstrate that theyd undertaken an adequate 
assessment of Mr Ks expertise, experience and knowledge.
- They said Interestme had failed to demonstrate that theyd undertaken an adequate 
assessment of Mr Ks financial situation or his ATR. 
- They said Interestme had failed to properly assess Mr Ks needs and objectives. 
- They said Interestme had failed to advise on the overall costs of their 
recommendation. 
The CMC also felt that Interestme hadnt complied with the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
("COBS") rules.
Interestme issued their final response to the complaint on 3 June 2021. They didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. 
Interestme said theyd also written to the CMC on 23 March 2021 to detail the incorrect 
information they felt a number of complaints theyd recently received through them had 
contained. Interestme felt that the CMC had been cold calling potential complainants and 
telling them theyd been mis-sold without any evidence. 
Interestme said there were a number of errors in the complaint letter from the CMC, as 
follows:
They felt the CMC had incorrectly stated that Mr Ks salary at the time of the advice 
was too low for him to be suitable for the SIPP. Interestme felt that a SIPP could be 
suitable for any individual regardless of their level of income. 
They felt it was incorrect to state that Mr K had no previous investment experience, 
as he had held pension monies for many years.
They also felt that the CMC had incorrectly stated that Mr K had a low ATR. They felt 
the risk profile theyd agreed with him was Lower to Medium.
Interestme felt each of the points the CMC had made were generic, with little evidence to 
suggest that theyd even assessed the client file.
Interestme didnt agree that their recommendation had been unsuitable for Mr K. Or that 
theyd failed to assess his financial situation. They said that Mr K had been taken through a 
thorough fact-finding process before theyd made their recommendation. 
Interestme said that their adviser had held detailed conversations with Mr K about his risk 
profile. They said that theyd also considered Mr Ks capacity for loss as part of their 
recommendation. They also denied that their adviser had promised Mr K greater growth if he 
transferred. Interestme also felt that theyd complied with the COBS rules.
Mr K didnt agree with Interestme. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the advice to switch 
Mr Ks pension into a SIPP with low risk funds which had limited scope for long term growth 
was suitable. He considered that Interestme should put Mr K back as close as possible to 
the position hed be in now if hed not been given the unsuitable advice in 2017. And that they should pay him £150 for the distress the unsuitable advice had caused. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
The three drivers Interestme recorded for Mr K in the fact find were Advice, Performance 
and Lower Cost. I need to decide whether Interestme gave Mr K suitable advice which 
fairly considered these drivers.
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (now the FCA) published a report and checklist for 
pension switching that is still applicable. That checklist identified four main areas where 
consumers had lost out:
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could include 
the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate or the 
right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age
They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded ATR and 
personal circumstances
They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Ive considered Mr Ks drivers, and these areas, where relevant, in my decision below. 
I first considered whether Mr K actually wanted a pension review. Based on what Ive seen, I 
consider that he did want to review his existing arrangements. And as there were no 
penalties, and no guarantees would be lost if he moved away from his existing PP, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable to consider moving to another provider. 
I next considered Mr Ks ATR and his capacity for loss.
ATR and capacity for loss
The regulator also said that if a consumer had switched into a pension that didnt match their 
recorded ATR and personal circumstances, this would likely indicate that the advice was 
unsuitable. 
Interestme said that their adviser had held detailed conversations with Mr K about his risk 
profile. But they havent provided any documentary evidence that theyd undertaken a full 
assessment of Mr Ks ATR.
However, during the initial fact find with Mr K, I can see that Interestme recorded that he 
was: prepared to take more risk with [his] pension savings to achieve greater reward.
And they also recorded that he had stated that he was:
somewhat cautious and not comfortable taking on a great deal of investment risk with [his] 
pension funds. When asked [for his] risk profile, from a choice of five answers, [he] stated 
lower to medium risk as this best described [his] underlying appetite for risk.
Based on the information Interestme gathered during the fact find, they assessed his risk 
profile as lower to medium. They defined this as an investor who:
would generally be relatively cautious with their investments. They want to try to achieve a 
reasonable return, and are prepared to accept some risk in doing so.
The Suitability Report also recorded that Mr K was in an occupational pension scheme. 
Although the fact find states: we are not aware of any current workplace pension 
arrangement that you are a member of. This inconsistency shows that Interestmes fact find 
wasnt as detailed as it couldve been.  
However, Mr K has confirmed to this service that he did also have a pension with his 
employer. So his PP wasnt his only means of providing income in retirement, and he was 
able to expose it to some level of capital risk. The Suitability Report didnt record other 
savings or investments, but Mr K was employed and his only debt was his mortgage. 
Therefore, as he had twenty years until he reached his desired retirement age of 65, I 
consider that he had the capacity to ride out any short-term fluctuations to his fund. 
Therefore Im satisfied that Mr K could reasonably accept investments up to a medium level 
of risk.
Although Ive not seen any detail on how the adviser assessed Mr Ks ATR, on the face of it, 
the recommended investment appears to meet Mr Ks recorded ATR to some degree. I say 
this because the investment the adviser recommended in the new SIPP was rated as a risk 
level of 2 out of 5, with 5 being the highest risk. This is consistent with a lower to medium 
level of risk.
Mr Ks existing SIPP was invested in two funds that were rated as medium to high and high 
risk. On the face of it, this seems to be out of line with his recorded ATR. 
I next considered the performance aspect of Mr Ks objectives.
Did Interestme fairly consider Mr Ks performance objective?
As noted earlier, Mr Ks performance objective was recorded in the Suitability Report as:
You believe positive long-term investment returns play the most important role in growing 
your pension.
As I noted earlier, Mr K wasnt invested in line with his recorded ATR in his existing PP. So I 
went on to consider whether the adviser should have recommended a change in 
investments within his existing pension arrangements instead of recommending the switch. I 
would expect to see reasonable potential for Mr K to be better off to make the advice to 
move his pension suitable, especially given the cost of such a switch.
Interestme compared, on a like-for-like basis, the projected values at age 65 for the existing 
PP with their recommended SIPP. Page 9 of the Suitability Report stated that the projected 
value at age 65 for the existing PP was £43,700. And that the projected value of the recommended SIPP based on the recommended investment was £43,200. The report noted 
that as the projections assumed the same growth rate, the only reason for the recommended 
SIPP having a lower projected value was because it was more expensive than the existing 
PP.  
The Suitability Report explored the projected values further, stating: 
During our conversation we also discussed what could happen in the real world, looking at 
the impact of actual fund performance and advice costs. The purpose of this was to give you 
a more realistic expectation of what your pension could grow to, using a medium risk fund 
(Balanced).
The report went on to state that the recommended portfolio had a five-year annualised 
performance of 7.06%. But then stated that as the investment provider had only been 
running the portfolio for one year, the five-year performance had been based produced by 
being: back-tested on a simulated basis. The total projected value on this basis was 
£93,435. 
Interestme have denied that their adviser promised Mr K greater growth if he transferred. I 
agree that he didnt promise Mr K anything. But Im of the view that the wording in the 
Suitability Report suggests that Mr K could expect to achieve a much better outcome at age 
65 if he transferred, despite the costs of the recommended SIPP being higher than that of 
his existing PP. I say this because I consider that when the Suitability Report stated that the 
£93,435 projection was a real world,  more realistic expectation of what his pension could 
grow to, he could reasonably have expected that the transfer would lead to a greater value 
at age 65.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the adviser demonstrated that there was reasonable 
potential for Mr K to be better off. I say this because the like-for-like projections showed that 
it was likely that Mr K would be slightly worse off at age 65, due to the increased costs of the 
recommended SIPP. 
I acknowledge that the report gave much higher projected values based on the annualised 
performance of the recommended portfolio. But I dont think the report was completely clear 
that there was only one year of actual performance history to base the projections on. And I 
dont consider that it was fair or reasonable to base a long-term projection on a single year of 
actual fund performance. 
Overall, I dont consider that the projections fairly demonstrated that Mr K would be better 
off. Therefore, in this regard, I dont consider that the advice was suitable. 
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr K needed access to the additional funds the 
recommended investment gave him. Im also not persuaded that Mr K needed access to a 
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). His existing PP offered access to a further funds 
already. Mr K wasnt an experienced or knowledgeable investor, so he had no reason to look 
for specialist or sophisticated investments, which wouldve been more costly. Im also not 
persuaded that the existing fund selection was fully explored before the adviser 
recommended the transfer. 
While I acknowledge that the adviser assessed Mr Ks ATR as lower than was evident from 
his investments in provider A, Im not persuaded that the adviser made Mr K aware that 
moving his pension funds from higher risk investments to lower risk investments was likely to 
result in lower returns over the long term. Ive seen no evidence that the adviser tried to 
explain that if Mr K followed his investment recommendations he would be likely to see 
worsened performance over time. As one of Mr Ks main objectives was to improve long-term investment returns, Im satisfied that the advisers recommendation was very unlikely to 
achieve this.
Part of Mr Ks complaint is that Interestme didnt meet the COBS rules. Section 4.2 of the 
COBS rules states that any communication with a client must be clear, fair and not 
misleading. I dont consider that the Suitability Report even attempted to explain to Mr K 
that moving to a defensive portfolio was very likely to result in reduced performance in the 
long run. And the projections that were included in the Suitability Report which showed how 
his pension might perform at age 65 dont appear to have been placed into any sort of 
context for him. Im of the view that the adviser shouldve explained that the lower risk fund 
being recommended was more likely to achieve the returns at the lower rate over the long 
term. If this had been done, I consider that Mr K wouldnt have taken up the 
recommendation. 
Im satisfied that Interestme shouldve told Mr K that his investment objective wouldnt be 
met if he moved to a lower risk fund. And they shouldve told him that, as he had other 
sources of pension, he could still invest in medium risk funds, rather than lower to medium 
risk ones. This wouldve led to a recommendation which met both Mr Ks performance 
objective and his ATR.
I next considered the costs aspect of Mr Ks objectives.
Did Interestme fairly consider Mr Ks costs objective?
As noted earlier, Mr Ks costs objective was recorded in the Suitability Report as:
You would be happy to look into the possibility of switching your pension to a contract with 
lower costs.
The report noted the recommended solution was: more expensive than your existing 
pension and alternatives such as stakeholder pensions. The like-for-like projections at age 
65 showed this to be the case.
The advisers recommendation also had an initial charge of 3% and an ongoing service 
charge of 1% each year. So Mr Ks costs objective was clearly not being met with this 
recommendation. 
The real world projections that were included in the Suitability Report stated that Mr K 
could expect to achieve a fund of £93,435 at age 65 if he followed the advisers 
recommendations, despite the increased costs. The report noted: 
This [the projection] is higher than the previous amounts and supports our view that using a 
financial planner should grow your pension beyond the expected levels set by the FCA over 
the longer-term despite the higher associated costs. 
At no point in the report did the adviser make Mr K aware that the recommended 
investments, which were lower risk then his existing investments, coupled with the higher 
charges, would mean that Mr Ks investments would have to perform much better than 
expected to simply keep up with his existing investments.
From what Ive seen, there was no obvious benefit for Mr K to invest in a SIPP in a more 
complicated investment type. Nor was there any benefit for him of paying for regular reviews. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr K was in need of regular ongoing advice. And Ive not 
seen any evidence that he asked for any ongoing advice over the years, despite the fact that hed been paying for them. Therefore Im not persuaded that the additional ongoing charges 
wouldve provided him with a better outcome.
As our investigator noted, its hard to see why a SIPP would be more appropriate than if the 
adviser had simply recommended Mr K moved his investments to an appropriate medium 
risk fund.
I also considered the other reasons that were given in the Suitability Report for the 
recommendation. 
Other reasons Interestme said the recommendation was made
I listed the reasons Interestme gave to support their recommendation earlier in my decision. 
Although these reasons might all be correct, it was the advisers responsibility to give Mr K 
suitable advice. And even though the recommended SIPP would provide him with the 
opportunity to drawdown his retirement benefits, which his existing PP didnt, Mr K was 
around 20 years away from his retirement age, and around ten years away from being 
allowed to withdraw money from his pension, at the time of the advice. Therefore Im 
satisfied that there was no need to make the switch at the time of the advice in order to have 
a drawdown option many years later. Mr K couldve waited until he was approaching 
retirement age. And he couldve switched when he was much closer to his retirement so that 
he wouldve known exactly what he wanted.
As noted above, the regulator outlined what should be considered when advising on a 
pension switch. They said that if additional costs were involved with the advice to switch, or if 
the client ended up paying for services they were unlikely to use, this is likely to indicate that 
the advice was unsuitable.
From what Ive seen, only one of Mr Ks three main objectives was met  he was given 
advice. But his performance objective was clearly not met when the adviser recommended 
he moved to funds with limited potential for growth. And as the costs were higher in the 
recommended SIPP, Mr Ks third main objective was also not met. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice to transfer Mr Ks existing PP to provider B was 
unsuitable. I also consider that the investment advice Mr K received was inappropriate. And 
that the advice required him to pay unnecessary fees throughout the switching and 
investment process. Therefore I intend to uphold the complaint. I also consider that the 
unsuitable advice, and the impact it has had on Mr Ks retirement planning, has caused him 
distress. Therefore I consider that Interestme should also pay Mr K £150 compensation for 
the distress the unsuitable advice caused. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr K should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr K wouldve remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be 
certain that values will be obtainable for what the previous plan wouldve been worth. 
Mr Ks pension was moved to a new SIPP platform with provider C in 2019. This was an in-
specie transfer, instigated by Interestme, which only resulted in a change of wrapper and 
slight increase in annual charge. As such, Im satisfied that it should be included as a 
continuation of the original advice. 
What must Interestme do?To compensate Mr K fairly, Interestme must:
Compare the performance of Mr K's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the provider A. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable.
Interestme should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Interestme should pay into Mr K's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Interestme is unable to pay the total amount into Mr K's pension plan, they should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr K wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, as Mr K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr K would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
If the advisers fees were paid independently of the pension transfers, and not taken 
from the transferred funds, Interestme must also repay those fees, together with 
simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of 
settlement. If the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the 
difference between the actual value and the notional value can be offset against the 
fees with interest.
In addition, Interestme should pay Mr K £150 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice and the impact on his retirement planning.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Interestme deduct income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. Interestme should give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
SIPP with 
provider CStill exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from provider ADate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from my final decision 
to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr K's investment had it remained with the provider A until the end date. 
Interestme should request that provider A calculates this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
the total of those payments being deducted at the end to determine the notional value 
instead of deducting periodically.
If provider A is unable to calculate a notional value, Interestme will need to determine a fair 
value for Mr K's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr K wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If provider A is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the measure 
below is appropriate:
oThe FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of 
a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
oAlthough it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within 
the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr K's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require INTERESTME FINANCIAL 
PLANNING LIMITED to pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman