DRN-4277686
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited has handled a claim he made 
on a personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had private medical insurance with BUPA under his employers group scheme. Once 
Mr L left that employment, he took out personal continuation cover with BUPA.
In September 2022, Mr L contacted BUPA to make a claim on the policy. He wanted to 
obtain pre-authorisation for a cardiology referral, after hed spoken to a private GP about 
symptoms hed been experiencing. The private GP had told Mr L he had angina. BUPA 
wrongly told Mr L on 26 September 2022 that as his symptoms pre-dated the start of his 
personal policy, his claim wouldnt be covered. Mr L made a complaint about BUPAs 
decision to turn down his claim.
Mr L saw an NHS GP, who told him to continue taking medication. The GP also told him that 
if he continued to experience persistent chest pain, he should go to A&E.
On 18 October 2022, Mr Ls chest pain worsened and he was taken to A&E. Unfortunately, 
Mr L had suffered a non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and he was admitted 
to an NHS hospital. Around 10 days later, he was transferred to another NHS hospital, 
where he eventually underwent quadruple bypass surgery. In total, he was in hospital for 27 
days.
In the meantime, on the 19 October 2022, the day after Mr L had been admitted to hospital, 
BUPA tried to get in touch with him by phone. It had reviewed Mr Ls claim and it concluded 
that as Mr Ls policy was a continuation contract, his request for a cardiology referral ought 
to have been authorised. So BUPA tried to call Mr L to provide him with an update. As, 
understandably, Mr L didnt answer the call, BUPA wrote to him to let him know that it would 
authorise a cardiology appointment. And it said it would pay him £100 compensation.
Once Mr L had been discharged from hospital, he got in touch with BUPA again to follow-up 
on his complaint. He felt that had BUPA authorised a cardiology referral at the outset, he 
wouldve been able to undergo treatment privately. Instead, he felt its actions had led to the 
NHS unnecessarily bearing the costs of his treatment. He therefore thought that BUPA 
should pay the NHS hospital the costs of the treatment hed received. And he considered 
BUPA should compensate him for the anxiety and upset hed suffered.
BUPA told Mr L that it wasnt able to pay the hospital the costs of his NHS treatment. But it 
said that it had given feedback to its staff around handling claims on continuation policies. It 
let Mr L know that he could make an NHS cash benefit claim on the policy if he wished to do 
so. It didnt agree that it was likely that Mr L would have been able to undergo bypass 
treatment privately had it pre-authorised his initial referral claim. But it did say it would pay 
Mr L a further £500 compensation for the trouble and upset hed experienced.
Mr L remained unhappy with BUPAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
referred to the significant premiums hed paid over the years for the cover and he felt that he 
should get these back.
Our investigator didnt think BUPA needed to do anything more. She accepted that BUPA 
had wrongly turned down Mr Ls initial claim. But she felt that BUPA had taken fair and 
reasonable steps to put things right. And she concluded that a total of £600 compensation 
was a fair award to reflect the error BUPA had made. 
The investigator didnt think that we could ask BUPA to reimburse the NHS for the costs of 
Mr Ls treatment  as Mr L hadnt incurred a direct loss for these costs and because the NHS 
wasnt a policy beneficiary. And she didnt think it was likely that Mr L could have arranged a 
cardiology appointment and undergone the necessary testing before his cardiac condition 
worsened. Additionally, she felt that Mr L had had the benefit of private medical cover over 
many years and that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask BUPA to refund the premiums 
he'd paid.
Mr L disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to the investigator. He questioned what 
BUPA would have done had it managed to speak with him on 19 October 2022, when he 
was already in hospital. He said hed attended A&E because this had been the only option to 
him given the decline of his claim  hed followed his GPs advice. He felt the investigator 
had disregarded his comments relating to what he considered to be fair compensation. 
BUPA had relied on a policy exclusion for admission via A&E to refuse to pay his treatment 
costs. He felt that any reimbursement of his treatment costs from BUPA to the NHS was a 
more complex situation than this service is used to resolving. He also queried how many 
other customers had had treatment on the NHS which should have been covered privately 
by BUPA. He told us hed spoken to members of government and other officials about this 
matter. BUPA has now applied an exclusion to the terms of Mr Ls policy for claims related to 
chest pain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L, I think BUPA has already settled 
this complaint fairly and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure both parties that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and the parties submissions, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent to us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been raised and nor 
do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Its important I make the parameters of this decision clear. First, Mr L has referred to the fact 
that BUPA appears to have applied an exclusion to his policy for chest pain. He told us he 
wanted us to look into this issue. It isnt clear that Mr L has complained to BUPA directly 
about this issue though and therefore, as the investigator explained, we cannot look into it as 
a part of this complaint. Thats because the regulators rules say that a financial business 
must be given eight weeks to investigate a complaint and issue a final response, before we 
can potentially look into that issue. 
Secondly, this complaint concerns BUPAs handling of Mr Ls claim  as he was one of those 
insured under the terms of his particular contract. Accordingly, this decision will only 
consider whether BUPA handled Mr Ls claim fairly, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of his complaint. I wont be looking at any concerns Mr L may have about the 
way BUPA has handled other policyholders claims or administered their policies.The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. In this case, BUPA acknowledges that it 
shouldnt have turned down Mr Ls claim in September 2022. And its final response letters 
indicate that it paid him compensation of £600, together with offering him an apology and 
providing feedback to its staff. So Ive gone on to consider whether I think this was a fair and 
reasonable way to put things right.
At the outset, Mr L sought pre-authorisation for a referral to cardiology for angina. After the 
claim was wrongly turned down on 26 September 2022, Mr L went on to see his NHS GP.  
By Mr Ls account, the NHS GP didnt refer Mr L to cardiology. They suggested that Mr L 
carry on taking medication and that he should go to A&E if his chest pain worsened.
Mr L says that he suffered an NSTEMI sometime between 15 and 18 October 2022. He 
accordingly visited A&E, in line with his GPs advice and was admitted for treatment on 18 
October 2022. So it appears he suffered an NSTEMI around three weeks after his claim had 
been erroneously turned down. Mr L thinks that had BUPA authorised a referral to 
cardiology, the cause of his chest pain would have been discovered and treatment would 
have taken place privately.
Ive thought about this very carefully. But on balance, even if BUPA had authorised the claim 
in September 2022, I dont think its likely that Mr L could have arranged an appointment with 
a cardiologist; undergone any necessary testing; received a diagnosis; and have arranged 
and undergone surgery within a three week period. Ive seen no persuasive medical 
evidence which shows that Mr L would have been able to undergo private surgery more 
quickly than he did. On balance, I find its more likely than not that even if BUPA had 
authorised the referral, Mr L would still have needed to visit A&E when his chest pain 
worsened. And I think its more likely than not that he would still have needed to be admitted 
via A&E for treatment in an NHS hospital.
As such, while I cant say with certainty what would have happened had BUPA been able to 
speak with Mr L on 19 October 2022, I think its likely that his emergency treatment would 
still have been provided by the NHS and he would have remained under the care of the NHS 
while he underwent surgery.  Its simply the case that sometimes, the NHS is best placed to 
provide medical treatment  particularly in emergency situations. And given the exclusion for 
treatment following an A&E admission, I dont think its likely BUPA wouldve gone on to 
cover Mr Ls emergency treatment in any event.
Its clear how strongly Mr L believes that BUPA should reimburse the NHS for the costs of 
his treatment. Im afraid I dont agree. An insurance contract is generally a contract of 
indemnity  it covers policyholders for their own insured losses. Mr L didnt incur any direct 
costs for his NHS treatment  these were met by the NHS. Mr L was the policy beneficiary 
and he was the risk BUPA was insuring. As he didnt incur any direct financial costs, BUPA 
isnt required to pay any private medical bills under the terms of the insurance contract. So 
Im not directing BUPA to make any payment to the NHS hospitals which treated Mr L. Id 
add too that were competent to resolve -  and experienced in resolving - complex disputes 
and Im satisfied that were able to make a fair and reasonable finding on this particular 
complaint point (and indeed, that we have done so here). 
I can understand why Mr L wants a refund of the policy premiums hes paid. However, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to make such an award. Mr L has had the benefit of the cover 
BUPA was providing over the years, even if he hasnt previously needed to make claims. I 
dont think it would be reasonable or appropriate for me to award a refund of premiums 
simply because BUPA made a mistake when it assessed Mr Ls claim. It remains open too to 
Mr L to make an NHS cash benefit claim for the period he was an in-patient in hospital. 
Should he now wish to do so, he should send BUPA the evidence its requested, so that it can consider an NHS cash benefit claim. 
BUPA did make a clear error when it wrongly turned down Mr Ls claim. This undoubtedly 
did cause Mr L some trouble and upset and I dont doubt how frustrating the situation has 
been for him, particularly when he experienced serious illness. Its fair that BUPA should pay 
compensation for its error. It has provided feedback to its staff, which Id expect it to do, and 
its apologised to Mr L. Again, this is in line with what Id expect it to do. In total, BUPAs 
letters indicate it has paid Mr L £600 compensation to reflect his distress and inconvenience. 
I appreciate Mr L believes BUPA should pay him substantially more. But I find the 
compensation it appears BUPA has already paid Mr L is fair to reflect the nature of its 
mistake and the likely impact I think it had on him. So while I know my decision will come as 
a disappointment to Mr L, Im not telling BUPA to do anything more. If Mr L didnt receive the 
compensation payments by BACS, he should let BUPA know.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman