DRN-2570396
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Leeds Building Society (LBS) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs C in 1998, in connection with a 
mortgage theyd arranged in 1997. The policy provided Mr C with cover if he couldnt work 
because of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If LBS gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs?
- Did LBS give Mr and Mrs C the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs C are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale? 
I have decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr and Mrs C say LBS didnt tell them anything about the PPI when their mortgage was 
arranged, and they didnt know it had been added to their account. Theyre unhappy that 
LBS cant provide any evidence of how the policy was sold, or that it started in 1998 which 
was some time after their mortgage was put in place.  
Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs C have said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure 
what was discussed between Mr and Mrs C and LBS when the policy was sold. 
LBS hasnt been able to provide much information from the time of the sale, which isnt 
surprising given the amount of time thats passed. I can understand why Mr and Mrs C might 
consider the society should be able to provide proof of the sale. But we wouldnt expect a 
business to retain records indefinitely, particularly for accounts that have been closed for 
some time. 
The society has provided screen shots that show Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage started in 1997, 
and the policy started in 1998. It wasnt unusual for PPI policies to start some time after the 
borrowing commenced, particularly for long term commitments such as a mortgage. Lenders 
sometimes promoted the products as an additional benefit during the life of the mortgage. 
So the gap between the start date of the mortgage and the PPI doesnt persuade me that the 
policy was mis-sold.
I realise Mr and Mrs C consider the PPI was added to their account without their knowledge 
or consent. But I note that the cover was for unemployment benefit only. Given the very 
good employer sick pay Mr C says he was entitled to, this might explain why he wasnt also 
covered for accident and sickness benefit. This suggests to me that there was some sort of 
choice in the benefits that were selected. So I dont think I can safely say that the policy was 
added to Mr and Mrs Cs account without their knowledge.
Im also mindful that details of the PPI wouldve been included in Mr and Mrs Cs annual 
mortgage statements. 
Overall, from what Ive seen, on balance I think its likely that LBS made Mr and Mrs C aware 
of the PPI and they chose to take it. 
LBS has accepted that it probably advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy and it doesnt 
look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. I say this because: 
- there is nothing to suggest that Mr C wasnt eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
- Mr and Mrs C say they had savings they couldve used if Mr C was out of work, and 
that Mrs C wouldve worked full time in those circumstances. Theyve also mentioned 
other forms of life cover they had, and Mr Cs pension.
But having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr and Mrs C couldve used their 
savings to cover other expenses if things went wrong. And there wouldve been no 
guarantee that Mrs C could secure full time employment at the point that Mr C was 
out of work.
The other cover theyve referred to wouldve paid out on retirement or death, 
whereas the PPI wouldve provided cover during periods of unemployment. 
So I think Mr and Mrs C would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.
- Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs C needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations. 
- I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mr and Mrs C before they agreed to buy it. But they bought the policy knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the 
benefit wasnt enough to cover their monthly mortgage repayments. So I dont think 
better information about the policy cost wouldve changed their decision to buy it. 
- Its possible the information LBS gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
Which means LBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. 
But LBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
 LBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because LBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, LBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. 
But Leeds Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman