DRN-2656389
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
whole of life critical illness policy to protect an interest only mortgage. And that Halifax told 
them the policy was compulsory when taking out the mortgage.  
What happened
Mr B and Mrs W applied for an interest only mortgage in 1998. The intention was to repay 
the mortgage using an existing low-cost endowment policy sold by a company I will call S, 
and a new plan with an ISA and life cover combined. The policy sold by company S had a 
sum assured payable on death of £25,176 over the remaining term of 19 years. The new 
plan recommended by Halifax had life and critical illness cover to the value of £12,824 
payable for the term of the new mortgage. Together, these two policies would pay out the 
balance of the interest only mortgage on death, but only £12,824 in the event of a critical 
illness. 
Halifax recommended the full mortgage balance be protected in the event of Mr B or Mrs W 
suffering a critical illness. They recommended a whole of life policy with a sum assured of 
£25,176, which was intended to top-up the critical illness cover not included on the policy 
with company S.
When Mr B and Mrs W divorced the mortgage ended and the premiums on the whole of life 
plan stopped in 2013. The policy was made paid-up shortly after. Halifax dealt with the sale 
of the ISA and combined plan in 2016.
In 2016, Mr B complained to Halifax that the whole of life policy wasnt suitable for their 
needs, and it was mis-sold. Halifax provided a final response to Mr B and Mrs W in 2020 
upholding the complaint. They agreed the policy wasnt suitable for an interest only 
mortgage with a fixed term but felt it did provide for the need of stand-alone critical illness for 
the uncovered part of the mortgage. Halifax said they didnt have a stand-alone critical 
illness term cover policy at the time. To resolve the complaint, Halifax calculated what the 
premiums wouldve been on a joint life critical illness level term plan over 19 years taken at 
the time the new mortgage started. They then deducted the premiums Mr B and Mrs W 
wouldve paid on this policy from the premiums theyd paid on the whole of life plan up until 
the premiums stopped in 2013. After adding interest, Halifax deducted the fund value in June 
2020, and then added the difference in fund value from when Mr B first complained in June 
2016. 
Halifax also offered to pay an amount of compensation to Mr B for their delay in dealing with 
the complaint he raised in 2016.
Mr B and Mrs W didnt agree with Halifax and brought their complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things for them and thought it was reasonable for Halifax to 
recommend critical illness to protect the mortgage in full, but a level term plan wouldve been 
more suitable than a whole of life plan. So, although the whole of life aspect and the 
reviewable nature of the policy wasnt entirely suitable, the critical illness cover it provided 
was. Taking this into consideration, the investigator thought the offer from Halifax was fair 
and it wouldnt be reasonable to ask them to repay all the premiums on the policy as Mr and 
Mrs W had requested. 
Our investigator responded to further comments from Mr B and Mrs W that they were told by 
Halifax the policy was compulsory. He explained that he understood Mr B and Mrs W may 
have felt pressured to take out the policy, but he couldnt be sure what had been said in the 
initial meeting in 1998. And that the evidence from the point of sale documents they and 
Halifax provided didnt suggest Halifax told them the policy was compulsory.
Mr B and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides 
their complaint. Mr B provided further documents for an ombudsman to consider in support 
of his view that Halifax told them the policy was compulsory, and Mrs W provided further 
comments to be considered. Halifax provided no further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my final decision I will address some of the comments made by Mr B 
relating to differences in the documents he has provided, and those Halifax sent to our 
office.
Mr B has sent me a copy of a document from 1998 which appears to be a printed version of 
a financial planning questionnaire. He has made a valid point that the address on this 
document is the address where he and Mrs W lived at the time, but the address on a similar 
document Halifax provided shows the address they were planning to move to. Hes also 
pointed out that his date of birth is incorrect on the document Halifax have provided. Mr B 
says this supports his view Halifax have amended the information on the form after the 
event.
Ive looked at both documents very carefully and I can see that the document Halifax 
provided indicates that a further review was due a year later. This may explain why the 
address has been amended, so that the up to date address is recorded ready for future 
reviews or correspondence. However, regardless of this discrepancy, both documents 
record that one of Mr Bs and Mrs Ws highest priorities was House Purchase. And this is 
the key area that Halifax provided a recommendation on at the time. Ive noted that all other 
documents have Mr Bs correct date of birth, including the illustrations Mr B has provided, so 
I dont think this has had any impact on the advice Halifax provided to Mr B and Mrs W at the 
time. It seems to me the difference in the date of birth is the result of a keying error when the 
details were entered by Halifax.
Mr B says he didnt receive the acceptance terms Halifax sent to them in a letter dated 26 
March 1998. He says that if he had read the exclusion for permanent total disability, or loss 
of limbs on any claim he made, he wouldnt have accepted the policy. I have some empathy 
with Mr Bs and Mrs Ws view that the illustration they received for the critical illness plan 
didnt show any exclusions, but the exclusions were added by the underwriters after the 
application was made and were added after consideration of Mr Bs employment. 
Ive therefore moved on to consider whether it is likely this letter was sent. The new 
mortgage completed on 20 March and the address on the letter Halifax sent was the new 
address for Mr B and Mrs W. I appreciate Mr B says the letter Halifax have now provided 
appears to be a pre-letter, but Im persuaded that its a print out of the letter from Halifaxs 
computer system, with the layout options still marked. Its unreasonable for them to have 
kept a paper copy of the actual letter from more than 20 years ago. Because of this, Im satisfied its likely the letter was sent, although I cant say it was received or read by Mr B or 
Mrs W. I note that a month later a cancellation letter for the policy was also sent to the same 
address. So, although Mr B says he wouldnt have accepted the policy terms if he had read 
them, Im not persuaded Halifax did anything wrong here.
Ive also noted Mr Bs comments that Halifax should refund the commission they paid on the 
whole of life policy, but the illustration provided explains The cost of advice has been 
allowed for in your plan payments and is included in the deductions So, this is not a 
commission payment but is part of the costs Halifax incurred in providing the advice, and I 
dont consider Halifax should refund this as they are putting Mr B and Mrs W in the position 
they wouldve been had the advice been a level term assurance plan.
I know that Mr B and Mrs W will be disappointed, but Ive decided that the remedy Halifax 
put forward was a reasonable one, and in my opinion, does all that we would normally ask of 
a business to put matters right. I will now explain why I consider this to be the case.
Compulsory policy
Mr B and Mrs W are adamant the adviser working for Halifax told them they wouldnt get 
their mortgage without the whole balance being protected with critical illness cover. They say 
Halifax manipulated a shortfall in their critical illness cover to sell them the policy. Ive 
therefore considered if there is enough evidence for me to say Mr B and Mrs W were told the 
policy was compulsory. As the discussions with the adviser happened more than 20 years 
ago and I cant be certain what was discussed, Ive looked at the evidence provided and 
considered what both parties have told me to help me decide what is likely to have 
happened.
Ive not seen anything within the documents provided to support that critical illness cover on 
the full mortgage balance was compulsory. Mr B provided an initial illustration from Halifax 
for a £38,000 mortgage that is dated before the meeting with the adviser. This shows the 
cost for the mortgage, including costs for the policy with company S, buildings and contents 
insurance, the mortgage payments insurance and the new ISA combined plan. So, I think if 
the critical illness cover was compulsory on all the mortgage, I wouldve expected it to have 
been recorded here.
I understand that Mr B and Mrs W may have felt some pressure to purchase the critical 
illness, and Ive considered Mr B and Mrs Ws view that they already had critical illness cover 
on some of the mortgage and they didnt need anymore. However, having reviewed the 
documents provided Im satisfied the Halifax adviser identified the mortgage amount wasnt 
fully protected in the event of either Mr B or Mrs W suffering a critical illness. And I would 
expect an adviser to recommend full cover be put in place to meet the agreed objective. On 
the documents Mr B provided, and those provided by Halifax, House Purchase was an 
agreed objective. So, when Halifax recommended the full mortgage balance be protected by 
critical illness, I dont consider that advice was unsuitable. Ive noted Mr Bs concerns that 
family protection wasnt a priority, but this additional policy was primarily for the mortgage to 
be paid in full in the event of a critical illness. 
Mr B and Mrs W say that they also took out Mortgage Repayment Insurance (MRI) to protect 
their mortgage payment if Mr B was off work sick, so they were fully protected. However, 
MRI doesnt pay out a lump-sum to clear the mortgage balance, it provides an income to 
help if the insured is off work long term sick. I agree it was an additional level of protection, 
but Im satisfied it wouldnt have provided a lump sum in the case of a critical illness event, 
which was an agreed objective.
So, having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that Halifax identified there was a need for additional critical illness cover for £25,176, and Im not persuaded Halifax told Mr B and 
Mrs W that this cover was compulsory for them to have the mortgage approved.
Whole of life policy
Having identified and agreed there was a need for critical illness cover to protect the full 
mortgage balance, Halifax recommended a whole of life policy. I wouldnt ordinarily consider 
this the most suitable policy because it has no fixed term and the premiums and cover are 
reliant on investment performance and arent guaranteed. Halifax have accepted the policy 
wasnt the most suitable but explain that at the time they didnt have a stand-alone critical 
illness policy to recommend.
A more suitable policy for the needs of Mr B and Mrs W at the time wouldve been a stand-
alone critical illness plan for the term of the mortgage. I would expect Halifax to put Mr B and 
Mrs W back in the position they shouldve been in when the need for cover was agreed. So, 
Im satisfied that what they have proposed as a remedy is reasonable. It provides the level of 
cover identified as a need at the time, it refunds the difference in cost (plus interest) and 
takes into account the investment growth in the underlying funds within the whole of life plan. 
Im satisfied it reasonably puts Mr B and Mrs W back in the position they wouldve been in if 
Halifax had been able to protect the needs agreed with a policy that was more suitable than 
a whole of life policy. And it takes into account that Mr B and Mrs W have had the benefit of 
critical illness cover during the term of the mortgage.
Although Mr B feels that Halifax are trying to sell him a new policy, Im satisfied this isnt the 
case. And Halifax have taken reasonable steps to put the matter right.
Ive seen that Halifax say they didnt deal with Mr Bs initial complaint as quickly as they 
shouldve. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so this it isnt something I can 
specifically consider, but overall Im satisfied the remedy Halifax did offer took into account 
the impact of the delay between 2016 and 2020 by adding back into the offer the decrease in 
the fund value between these dates.
Mr B says that Halifax didnt tell them a more suitable product may have been available 
through someone else, but Halifax isnt required to do this. Their terms of business explained 
they can only provide advice on the products from within the Group. And Im satisfied that 
after accepting a more suitable policy became available after the sale in 1998, its 
reasonable for Halifax to propose remedying the complaint in the way they have. I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable for Halifax to refund all the premiums plus interest 
on the whole of life policy as Mr B and Mrs W had the benefit of the critical illness cover the 
policy provided.
Halifax have confirmed theyve already paid Mrs W a 50% share of the redress, but Mr B 
returned his cheque as he preferred to wait for an ombudsman decision. So, I will be asking 
Halifax to pay Mr B his 50% share of the remedy.    
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr B his 50% 
share of the remedy they offered as Ive decided their offer was reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021. 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman