DRN-3236319
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the way Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has settled a claim he
made on his property insurance.  
What happened
Mr Ss property was damaged by fire. Allianz accepted his claim and work was done. As part
of the settlement, Allianz paid Mr S the equivalent of the rent hed been earning by letting out
the property and the council tax due. It did this up to the point where it said the property
could be lived in  July 2019.
Mr S says the repairs werent finished  and in particular there were missing faceplates on
electrical sockets in the kitchen. He said he couldnt rent out the property until the work was
completed  and that wasnt until late 2020. He says he contacted Allianz on many
occasions but got little in the way of response or progress. He says also that there were
other snagging issues Allianz hadnt completed, which included light fixtures, doors and the
clearance of rubbish from the property.
Mr S wants Allianz to pay him compensation for lost rental income and his inconvenience 
when he made his complaint that was over £17,000 for rent and £10,000 for his
inconvenience.
Allianz didnt agree to pay this level of compensation, although it did pay Mr S £800 to make
up for the delays.
When Mr S brought his complaint to us, our investigator thought Allianz need do no more.
Although he acknowledged that the lack of electricity in the kitchen meant it would be difficult
for Mr S to rent out the property, he thought that if Mr S had wanted to do that then hed
have arranged for the work to be done and sorted it out with Allianz later. He also thought
Mr S could have taken the same approach with any other snagging issues.
I issued my provisional findings in December. In that, I concluded that Allianz hadnt 
provided an acceptable level of service when one of its contractors didnt respond to Mr S for 
some time. And I noted that Allianz has paid Mr S £800 to make up for this.
I thought that fitting electrical sockets was part and parcel of finishing the restoration of his 
property and something Mr S could reasonably expect Allianz to do.
Having said that, I also thought Mr S could have done more to mitigate the losses he 
suffered because of the delays in finishing the work. Essentially I thought there came a point 
when Id think it reasonable for Mr S to take matters into his own hands  either by 
bypassing the loss adjuster he says didnt respond to him and going straight to Allianz, or 
even by getting the remaining work done and asking Allianz to pay for it. I thought that was 
within a few weeks of him not getting a response to his emails.
I did note that Allianz thought Mr S didnt have enough money to do other work that he was 
responsible for and that had to be done before he could let the property  but I didnt see 
evidence of this and so I didnt give it much weight. And I also noted that Mr S had 
mistakenly told Allianz that there was no power at the property, but also that this shouldnt 
have made a difference as a contractor visiting would have realised there was power. The 
supply is available through a pre-paid meter. I asked Mr S to show me that there was credit 
on the meter, as I didnt think it was Allianz responsibility to top this up, but he didnt do that. 
Taking everything into account I thought Allianz should pay some additional compensation 
on top of the £800 its already paid. I thought a fair amount was the equivalent of an extra 
two months rental income and council tax  about £1,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has accepted my findings and has no further comment to make.
Mr S has, in the main, repeated his arguments about how he thinks Allianz behaved and 
wants the compensation increased to £5,000. He thinks that takes into account his 
responsibility to mitigate his losses but also makes Allianz more accountable for the issues 
caused by the delays.
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought Mr S should have taken steps to 
mitigate his losses. In summary, this was that, as a landlord, I thought it reasonable for him 
to take action after six weeks if he wasnt getting responses to his emails. Mr S says he 
believes he was entitled to a reply from Allianz (or one of its contractors) before he needed 
to mitigate his losses. I understand that Mr S is upset by Allianz lack of response. But Ive 
already explained that not getting a response within a reasonable timeframe was a fair 
reason for Mr S to take action. He hasnt given me any new evidence to show why the six 
weeks I suggested wasnt a reasonable amount of time. So Im not changing my decision 
because of this.
Mr S says he doesnt think hed have been easily able to get re-imbursement from Allianz if 
hed had the work done. We dont know whether that situation would have arisen, but I cant 
make findings about something that hasnt happened.
Finally, Mr S re-states that there was always an electricity supply to the house. I said in my 
provisional findings that I wasnt sure this was a material factor as we didnt know exactly 
when this affected the claim. But I did explain that I thought the availability of electricity 
through a pre-paid meter depends on the meter being topped up. And weve given Mr S 
several opportunities to provide some evidence that hed done this, or that the emergency 
credit was available. He hasnt done that. 
Taking everything into account I see no reason why I should change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Allianz should pay Mr S the equivalent of two months rent and council tax. 
This is in addition to any compensation it might already have paid.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr S the compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman