DRN-2117072
The complaint
Mr S complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down his travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr S held travel insurance as part of a packaged bank account. When taking out the cover, 
he declared existing medical conditions. Amongst those conditions was peripheral vascular 
disease and diabetes, and Aviva excluded these from the policy.
Whilst on holiday, Mr S cut his toe by accident. It became infected and unfortunately needed 
to be amputated. Mr S made a claim under the policy for this, but Aviva turned down the 
claim as it thought it was related to his excluded conditions. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought 
a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the medical 
evidence supported that Mr Ss existing conditions contributed to the need for amputation. 
She therefore concluded it had been reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S explains that he cut his toe on a piece of metal and, despite then changing the dressing 
every day, the wound became septic. He was taken to hospital and advised that his toe 
would need to be amputated.
Aviva thinks Mr Ss excluded conditions of peripheral vascular disease and diabetes were 
contributing factors to the complications that arose from the initial injury and, if those 
complications hadnt happened, amputation wouldnt have been necessary.
Ive therefore looked at the information from the hospital. An MRI scan confirmed the 
presence of osteomyelitis in the affected toe. It also said there was Soft tissue oedema and 
ulceration is present involving the tip of the third toe. The surgeons notes said there was 
Left 3rd toe wet necrosis with associated osteomyelitis and cellulitis. The surgeon decided 
to amputate the toe. 
The NHS website says that osteomyelitis is a painful bone infection, and that anyone can get 
it. However, some people are more at risk of getting it, including people with diabetes, 
especially if they have a foot ulcer.
The Diabetes UK website says that peripheral vascular disease (or peripheral arterial 
disease) is a complication of diabetes that happens when blood vessels in the legs become 
blocked or narrowed. It also says that narrowed arteries can reduce the blood flow to the feet 
for some people with diabetes, and this can impair the foots ability to heal properly. And that 
when the foot cannot heal, a foot ulcer can develop. It also says that wet necrosis can occur 
at the site of foot ulcers, which are a common complication of diabetes.
As Mr Ss diabetes meant that he was at higher risk for osteomyelitis, and his peripheral 
vascular disease could have impacted the ability of his toe to heal, I think it was reasonable 
for Aviva to conclude that Mr Ss existing conditions were likely significant contributing 
factors to the complications he experienced, which resulted in his toe being amputated. That 
means it was entitled to turn down the claim.
Mr S has provided several letters written by Mr G, a consultant vascular surgeon. Mr S went 
to see Mr G after his return to the UK. Ive referred to the most relevant letters below.
In a letter dated 19 February 2019, Mr G said Prior to the amputation he [Mr S] underwent 
what sounds like a vascular duplex scan of his graft and the decision was made to treat him 
in the local hospital, rather than transferring him to a vascular centre, as the blood flow to his 
foot was very good. 
In a letter dated 2 May 2019 Mr G confirmed he had read the medical report from the 
hospital where Mr S had been admitted abroad. He said I think the issue at hand is whether 
or not he [Mr S] had a pre-existing condition. He certainly does have diabetes and has had a 
previous bypass but, manifestly, stepping on a rusty nail was not a pre-existing condition and 
this was the entire cause of his medical problem.
Then in a letter dated 2 July 2019 Mr G said stepping on a rusty nail is happenstance and 
his underlying history of peripheral vascular disease played no role whatsoever in the 
subsequent infection and amputation, which all happened in a very acute fashion. Mr G 
confirmed he had reached his conclusions based on the hospital discharge summary as well 
as his own clinical assessment of Mr S.   
Aviva hasnt said the cause of the injury itself was a pre-existing condition, rather it thinks 
Mr Ss pre-existing conditions meant that he experienced complications as a result of the 
injury, which then led to the amputation. 
Although Mr G confirmed that hed read the hospital discharge summary, this document 
doesnt mention the osteomyelitis or ulceration. I therefore cant be sure that Mr G has read 
all of the hospital reports, as I would have expected him to have commented on this, 
particularly as people with diabetes are apparently at higher risk of both these problems. And 
although Mr G said that the blood flow to Mr Ss foot was very good, I think Aviva makes a 
reasonable point that Mr G wasnt there and so didnt know what Mr Ss blood flow to his foot 
was like at the time. 
I recognise Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont require Aviva to pay the 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-RyanOmbudsman