DRN-4094513
The complaint
Mr A, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Tandem 
Personal Loans Ltd (Tandem) rejected his claims under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 
1974 in respect of a holiday product. I gather the purchase was made by Mr and Mrs A, but 
as the finance agreement was in Mr As name he is the eligible complainant. In this decision 
for simplicity I will refer to Mr A as the sole purchaser.
What happened
Mr A had made several purchases from a company I will call T, one in 2006 and another in 
2014. He says that in 2018 while on holiday he was persuaded to surrender his old product 
for a new one at a cost of £20,500. He says he was told that the new points based product 
would offer greater flexibility in accessing holidays. However it turned out that he had 
difficulty in accessing the resorts he wanted. He also said that after he and his wife retired 
they found it more difficult to make the monthly payments. 
In April 2021 PR submitted a letter of claim to the original lender, but received no response. 
The lender subsequently sold the loan to Tandem. PR said the product had been 
misrepresented by T and Mr A had been aggressively targeted. He had been unable to sell 
the old product and he had been led to believe the new one would offer an opportunity to 
recover his investment. 
It claimed that Mr A had been pressured into making the purchase which he had been told 
was an investment. It said T had gone into liquidation and so could no longer offer services. 
It added that no affordability checks had been carried out and no choice of lender had been 
offered. It claimed a refund under s.75 CAA and s.140A CAA.
In January 2022 it brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She asked Tandem for its response to the 
claim. It said that PR had not provided any evidence to support its claims and noted that 
while a company in Ts group of companies had closed it believed another was providing the 
services for members. It also provided a video recording of the compliance process.
Our investigator considered the material supplied by both parties and concluded he did not 
have sufficient evidence of misrepresentation or that there had been an unfair relationship. 
Nor did he think the lending decision was made in such a way as to allow him to uphold the 
complaint.
PR didnt agree and said the product had been sold as desirable and it could be easily sold. 
It said Mr A had purchased all the products as investments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. So, this 
means that Mr A may be afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under those 
provisions. As a result, Ive taken this section into account together with any other relevant 
sections of the CCA when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being considered here 
specifically relates to whether I believe Tandems treatment of Mr As claim was fair and 
reasonable given all the evidence and information available. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. 
PR has made a number of claims, but has not submitted much evidence in support of them. I 
have noted Mr As testimony, but I have not seen a copy of the agreement signed by Mr A 
nor any other paperwork supplied by A at the time of sale. PR has simply made several 
assertions but without supporting documentary evidence. Furthermore as our investigator 
has pointed out the video recording, albeit of poor quality, does not support the claims made 
regarding pressure or misrepresentation.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
As I have explained I have seen insufficient evidence to show that the product was 
misrepresented. In particular I cannot safely conclude that it was sold as a financial 
investment. The sales representative may well have put the best possible gloss on the 
product but that does not mean that it was misrepresented. 
Breach of Contract
Again I do not consider I have seen sufficient evidence of any breach of contract. I have 
noted that one of As companies went into liquidation, but I have not been persuaded that 
the services offered in the contract were not provided by another company. 
S.140 A
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr A and Tandem 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr A could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against Tandem anyway.
His alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must mean 
its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of negligence 
unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a claimant 
against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Tandem assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that Tandem owed Mr A a duty of care to ensure that C complied with 
the 2010 Regulations and it argues at length that the payment of commission created an 
unfair relationship.  As for the issue of commission has not denied that commission was 
paid. In my experience of this industry the sums paid were not such that they could be said 
to have led to an unfair relationship. 
Indeed although PR has not submitted all the documentation signed by Mr A I am aware that 
Ts Members Declaration usually includes a paragraph that mentions that commission is 
paid and details can be made available. While I cannot say if this was included in the 
paperwork given to Mr A I think it likely that he could have asked for details of the 
commission paid.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. 
Our investigator said that he could not see any evidence that Mr A found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if Tandem did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for 
me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr A lost 
out as a result of its failings. Following the issue of our investigators view PR has made 
generic points about affordability, but has not provided evidence that they would have found, 
or did find, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
Conclusion
I appreciate Mr A is dissatisfied with his purchase and he has my sympathies for this, but, in 
summary I cannot see why any of his claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that Tandem acted reasonably in not accepting the claims under s.75 and s. 140A 
CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman