DRN-3598422
The complaint
Mrs D complains Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund payments she says she didnt make.
What happened
The background which led to Mrs D bringing this complaint to our service is well known to 
both parties, so I wont repeat everything here. 
In summary, Mrs D says she didnt make a large payment which debited her account in 
February 2022. And, when it was pointed out to Mrs D that two previous payments were 
made to the same payee in 2021, she also said she didnt make those payments.
Our investigator concluded Mrs D most likely made the payments, so they werent going to 
ask Lloyds to refund them. Mrs D rejected the investigators conclusions and asked for a 
final decision from an ombudsman. As a result, her complaint has been given to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Lloyds should refund 
payments Mrs D didnt consent to or didnt allow someone else to make. So, I need to decide 
whether its more or less likely that she made the payments.
On balance, I find its more likely than not that Mrs D made the payments, or someone made 
the payments because she allowed them to access her account. Ill explain why:
Mrs D says she had never paid the payee money before and doesnt know who they 
are. I dont find this plausible as two smaller payments were made to the same payee 
the year before. She says these payments were also fraud. But I expect she would 
have noticed the payments some time ago if this was the case. While the payments 
werent large, they were sizeable in relation to the balance she held at that time, and 
the account was active at those times. So, I disagree that she wouldnt have noticed 
them.
Mrs D has been inconsistent about owning a specific brand of phone. Lloyds records 
indicate she told them she did own a phone from the brand in question, but she had 
said it had been left in another country when the payment in February 2022 was 
made. But Mrs D told us she never owned that brand of phone, and said the phone 
that was left in another country was a different brand entirely
Its clear the phone in question was registered to her account in November 2020, and 
this was the only phone registered on the account until another phone was registered 
in January 2022. I find these are apparent contradictions in her version of events 
which weigh against her credibility.
Mrs D says she was in another country when the phone was registered to the 
account in 2020. But Mrs D didnt need to be in the UK to register the phone. Also, 
the phone was used to carry out normal banking activity, such as cancelling a direct 
debit. If the phone was registered to her account by a fraudster, I would expect there 
to have been a lot more reports of unauthorised activity on her account.
The payment in February 2022 was verified using biometric fingerprint identification. 
So, it appears Mrs D fingerprint was used to verify the payment, and this was why a 
separate notification wasnt sent. Mrs D denies this was her, but I find Lloyds records 
persuasive  they show biometric fingerprint identification was used multiple times in 
the past to log into her account when no disputed transactions were raised. Its telling 
that one of the IP addresses logged by Lloyds on 4 March 2022  the day Mrs D 
went into a branch of Lloyds to discuss this matter - was the same IP address logged 
when the disputed payment was made in February 2022.
Its possible Mrs D has been defrauded on the basis that she regularly let someone 
access her account, who then went on to make a payment she didnt want them to. 
But this is not what she said happened. And, if Mrs D did allow someone access to 
her account, then at least under the PSRs this wouldnt make Lloyds liable for the 
payments that person made. I was sorry to hear how Mrs D says she has been 
impacted by this matter. But I find Lloyds werent unreasonable in declining her fraud 
claim and Im satisfied they acted fairly.
For the reasons I have given, I am not going to direct Lloyds to refund the payments she 
disputes making or award her compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman