DRN-3144563
The complaint
Mrs J is being represented by her husband Mr J. He complains on her behalf that Brewin 
Dolphin Limited (BD) unfairly maximised its commission when it liquidated her investments.
All references to Mr J will be in his capacity as representative of Mrs J. 
What happened
Mrs J had a discretionary investment management service with BD since 2017. On 12 May 
2017 in response to Mr Js question about exit charges he was told that:
To answer your question from today, exit charges only apply if a client transfers their 
stocks in specie to another broker (this is usually £15 per line of stock). In the event that the 
portfolio is wound up/liquidated, there would only be dealing costs/commission as 
applicable, no exit charge.
In October of that year, the DB adviser sent Mrs J a review letter saying that her portfolio 
had been moved from an inclusive fee structure to a fee and commission rate, which he 
said was based on the expected future activity of the portfolio.
In June 2020 Mr J told DB to liquidate Mrs Js portfolio. Following the sale of her investments 
she received a total of £380,791. Mrs J was charged commission and fees totalling £7,365.
In August 2020 Mr J complained about the charges. He said that he remembered being told 
by the BD adviser that Mrs Js chosen plan would reduce costs. Mr J calculated that if Mrs J 
had stayed on the original inclusive fee rate, she would have paid £4,505 less than she did 
in commission.
BDs rate card shows the applicable charge rates to Mrs Js portfolio as of 2020:
The fee only option had an annual charge on the first £1 million of 1.5%; 
The fee plus commission rate had an annual charge on the first £1 million of 1%; 
Both the fee only and fee plus commission rates had a £20 per transaction fee;
The fee only option didnt have any other commission rates for the sale of 
investments; 
The fee plus commission option had the following commission rates per sale: 1.25% 
on the first £15,000; 1% on the next £15,000; and 0.5% on the balance.
In his calculations Mr J confirmed he used an older rate card which he says applied in 
February 2018. This rate card shows slightly lower rates but followed the same pattern in 
that the fee only option attracted no commission on the sale of investments. However, he 
confirmed his complaint is about whether Mrs J portfolio should have been liquidated using 
the fee only option rather than the fee plus commission option.
BD rejected Mrs Js complaint. It said that at no time had it said there would be no dealing 
charges if Mrs J liquidated her investments. Or that these charges would change once it was 
notified this is what Mrs J wanted to do. It noted that once Mrs Js portfolio was aligned with 
the agreed risk benchmark it was switched to its fee plus commission charge, as highlighted 
in its letter to her sent in October 2017. BD said this was the most suitable for the ongoing 
management of Mrs Js portfolio.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, she was satisfied that the fees applied 
were correct and that these were in line with the agreement Mrs J had with BD. 
Mr J disagreed. He reiterated the points made above and added that he didnt think Mrs J 
had been notified of the change in tariff in 2017. As BD had discretion to switch the fee 
structure at any time, it should have put Mrs J on the best fee rate based on the high volume 
of transactions that happened when she liquidated her portfolio. He said that the quarterly 
reviews were misleading as they didnt indicate that the value on liquidation would be 
reduced by charges. And when he spoke to the adviser about liquidating Mrs Js portfolio he 
should have been told about the applicable charges at that point. 
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this is a difficult time for both Mr and Mrs J but based on everything Ive seen 
Im not upholding the complaint. 
Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Mr J on behalf of Mrs J, has raised a 
number of points during his contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point 
he's raised, Ive considered everything Mr J has said but limited my findings to the areas 
which impact on the outcome of the case.
In a review letter to Mrs J dated 25 October 2017, I can see the adviser noted the following: 
There has been significant activity on the portfolio since June when management of the 
portfolio began. And then went on to say: We are coming toward the end of the 
reorganisation of the portfolio, and I would expect that from January 2018 we will move from 
the inclusive fee arrangement to fee + commission, on the basis that the level of 
transactions will drop appreciably through 2018 and beyond.
So, on balance, I consider Mrs J was given clear, fair and not misleading information about 
the fee charging structure that applied to her account. And when she sold her investments in 
2020, the same fee structure applied at this point. Whilst the fee plus commission would 
have resulted in higher fees than a fee only option once Mrs J liquidated her portfolio, she 
had at this point benefited from lower ongoing annual fees as a result of the switch in 2018. 
I dont think there was any obligation on BD to move Mrs J back onto the fee only structure 
when she decided to liquidate her portfolio. As Ive said, from January 2018 onwards shed 
benefitted from the lower rate of commission and was told that this would be the new 
charging structure from that point onwards.
I note what Mr J says about not being told about the fees that would apply at the point he 
asked for the portfolio to be liquidated. But by the time Mrs J decided to liquidate her 
portfolio, she had been subject to the commission plus fee rates for more than two years. I 
dont think BD did anything wrong when it applied the previously agreed rate to the sale of 
Mrs Js investments.Mr J says he was told in 2017 by the adviser that the rate Mrs J would be charged for 
liquidating her portfolio would not be the same as the dealing charges that applied on a day 
to day basis. Mr J says Mrs J only agreed to transfer her portfolio to BD because she was 
told that if she liquidated the portfolio, it would be done on a fee only basis at a minimal cost. 
Whilst Ive taken into account what Mr J has said about the conversations he had with the 
adviser, he is recalling matters that happened a number of years ago. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, from around the same time (May 2017), he was told in writing that whilst 
no exit fees would apply, commission and costs would still apply to the sale of the 
investments. He was also told in a separate letter from the adviser in October 2017, that the 
charging option that would apply to Mrs Js portfolio from January 2018 onwards, would be 
the fee plus commission option.
Mr J says that the quarterly updates he received from BD were misleading as the value of 
the investments didnt reflect the deductions in charges that applied. But these charges only 
applied on the sale of the relevant investments. The values provided were the value of the 
investments at a particular point in time. And this complaint is that it was the wrong fee rate 
structure applied to Mrs Js account. From what Mr J has said, he knew fees would apply to 
Mrs Js investments but he is unhappy about the actual tariff she was on. On balance, I dont 
think the information provided by BD about what fees would apply on the sale of Mrs Js 
investments, was misleading. 
Ive noted Mr Js comments about the charges that apply to other businesses and that he 
thinks in comparison, BDs dealing charges are too high. However, the level of fees that 
apply in this particular case are a legitimate business decision for BD to make. Its not one 
that I would seek to interfere with.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome particularly as 
it comes at a difficult time for Mr and Mrs J, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman