DRN-3471664
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has treated her unfairly and failed to stop 
transactions leaving her account. 
What happened
Mrs B has banked with Lloyds for a number of years and has a Cash Account and a 
Standard/Flexi Saver Account. Her Cash account has a card that allows online transactions 
with the savings account only having a cash card.
In August 2020 Mrs B spoke to Lloyds to complain about it allowing her to spend a 
considerable amount of money with online gambling sites in the past with her cash account. 
The bulk of the transactions she was complaining about took place between 2013 and 2017, 
but it wasnt limited only to this time. 
Mrs B doesnt dispute the transactions but is concerned that Lloyds allowed her to spend the 
money she did. Often she made a number of large transactions to the same site in short 
succession and she believes Lloyds should have stepped in and realised she was vulnerable 
with her gambling leading to detriment. She said shed spoken with her local branch about 
her mental health and that she was suffering with depression. She also said at different 
points over the years, she wrote to Lloyds and asked for help specifically to control her 
spending. 
When she complained to Lloyds about it not stopping the transactions made in the past, she 
felt the call handler was rude and unsympathetic. She feels the complaint and her 
circumstances werent listened to properly and she complained about this service too. 
Since Mrs B complained to Lloyds, shes said transactions to certain sites have been 
blocked and this shows they could have stopped the previous ones.
Our investigator said that they didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. They 
sympathised with Mrs B and the situation shes now in but didnt think it was fair to expect 
Lloyds to monitor the spending on Mrs Bs account in the way she had hoped. Although 
Mrs B said she previously explained to Lloyds about her gambling and mental health, the 
system notes provided didnt indicate it had been made aware of this. Lloyds said it wasnt 
until Mrs B wrote to them in July 2020 and then called to complain about her previous 
spending in August 2020 that it was made aware of this. 
She explained shed listened to a call Mrs B had with Lloyds in August 2020  it was the only 
call recording Lloyds was able to find on Mrs Bs account. She noted that Mrs B in this call, 
didnt indicate she had previously made Lloyds aware of her spending directly, although 
Mrs B explained why she felt the branch staff could have done more. With this and no 
evidence of any other communication being received by Lloyds and the usage of Mrs Bs 
account not giving rise to anything that she felt would flag the account automatically, she 
didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly when not declining the transactions. 
And in the absence of Lloyds being given any information to suggest that Mrs B was 
vulnerable and needed additional support with her banking, she didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
She understood the concerns Mrs B had about the complaint handler and the service 
received when the complaint was raised but said she couldnt comment on this. She 
explained complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and as such, she could only comment 
on the merits of the complaint. 
Mrs B disagreed with the outcome. She was unhappy that our investigator had only been 
able to listen to one of the calls she had with Lloyds in August 2020 and said the other call 
must be available. She reiterated her complaint points and unhappiness about the fact 
transactions could now be stopped by Lloyds. Because she didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly and wont be upholding 
Mrs Bs complaint. I know she will be disappointed with this outcome, but Ill explain how Ive 
reached this. Mrs B has provided lots of information about the impact of her spending over 
the years and how this has affected her life. Im grateful for her sharing this and Ive taken 
everything into account, if I dont directly reference something in my decision it is not 
because Ive not given this consideration and I mean no insult in not covering everything line 
by line. But Ive focused on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Mrs B has explained she is still suffering with severe depression anxiety and panic attacks 
and is in financial hardship. And she said this and her gambling was triggered when her 
mother passed away. Shes unhappy Lloyds failed to stop her gambling transactions and 
she feels it became clear that her gambling demonstrated she might be struggling with an 
addiction and was vulnerable to harm because of this. 
The question that I first need to consider is whether Lloyds should have known Mrs B had a 
problem with her spending. If it did, then Id need to consider whether it took appropriate 
steps to help.
Mrs B feels the level of spending on her account from 2013 onwards should have flagged to 
Lloyds as a concern. And that its systems should have recognised there was potentially 
problem spending which was harmful to her. I understand why Mrs B feels this way but I 
dont think its reasonable to think her account usage should have flagged any concerns. Ive 
reviewed the contact notes which detail Lloyds interactions with Mrs B in relation to her 
account usage together with her account statements. Ive looked at both the account she 
uses as her current account (Cash Account) and her savings account which only has a cash 
card with it. From 2013 until 2016 there is little indication that Lloyds had any cause to speak 
with Mrs B. Her account remained with a positive balance for the majority of this time. In 
2016 a direct debit was unpaid when she didnt have enough in her account to meet this bill 
and Mrs B spoke with Lloyds about this.
Mrs B explained this was due to her spending time with a friend whod been very ill and it 
resulted in the payment being missed. Lloyds refunded the charge for the returned direct 
debit but there is no indication of Mrs Bs mentioning her gambling to Lloyds at this point or 
that she needed help with her spending. And when looking at the bank statements around 
this time, there appears to be very few gambling transactions prior to the missed payment.  
So I think it would be unreasonable to expect Lloyds to have been aware of Mrs Bs problem at this time, or that direct debit was returned because of this. 
Mrs B had another two charges refunded in 2017. There was a large number of gambling 
transactions on the account on and around this time. But I dont think Lloyds would 
reasonably have been aware there was a problem with Mrs Bs spending. Despite spending 
a large amount over the years, often the account maintained a positive balance and there 
were only few occasions when Mrs B was unable to meet the agreed direct debits on her 
account. This meant there wasnt many charges applied and when these were and Mrs B 
asked for them to be refunded, there is no indication of her asking for help or explaining she 
had a problem with her spending and her gambling.  
Mrs B regularly transferred money from her savings account (which took receipt of income) 
to her Cash Account. This meant she maintained, for the most part, the money in the Cash 
Account needed to meet her bills as well as the gambling transactions. So the account didnt 
indicate she was struggling to meet these payments. In short she managed her account well 
and there was nothing to indicate there was a problem with her spending.
Lloyds has said it wasnt made aware of Mrs Bs gambling until she complained in 2020. The 
first time it was made aware was in a letter dated 3 July 2020. Mrs B has said she notified 
Lloyds before with letters sent over the years to her local branch but there is no record of 
these being received. I appreciate shes said they were hand delivered to the letter box on 
the outside of her local branch but it doesnt appear Lloyds did receive these. 
When Mrs B called Lloyds in August 2020, she complained about the branch staff failing to 
question her account spending when she visited her local branch and it was explained why 
this wouldnt happen. Mrs B failed to say during this call that shed previously attempted to 
draw Lloyds attention to her spending and I dont think, based on what Ive said above, that 
it's reasonable to expect them to have otherwise been aware there was a problem without 
this. 
Mrs B also spoke about her husbands bank and the steps it had taken which she feels 
Lloyds should have adopted. Without knowing why it felt the transaction required flagging or 
the detail on this, I cant comment. But it doesnt take away from the information Mrs B 
provided to Lloyds about her circumstances. The transactions she made didnt flag as 
potentially fraudulent and with Mrs B managing her accounts well over the years, there was 
also no indication of vulnerability. So while I appreciate she feels the volume of her gambling 
transactions alone should have raised questions, I dont think Lloyds has done anything 
wrong when it didnt stop these as I dont think it would reasonably have been aware through 
its automatic checks. And there would be no human intervention or additional support as 
Mrs B hadnt given any information to Lloyds to suggest shed need this.
When Lloyds was made aware of Mrs Bs spending it restricted the use of her card to certain 
sites. It hasnt made a record on its system of her medical conditions as she didnt provide 
permission for it to do so during the call. But has taken steps to reduce the risk of her 
compulsive spending, which I think is fair. 
If Mrs B is happy to allow Lloyds to record her medical information, it may well be able to 
tailor its service to her even further, but I understand why it hasnt been able to offer this to 
date.
Complaint handling
I know Mrs B has complained about the service received from the complaint handler at 
Lloyds. The call was ended when the call became unproductive and Im sorry she feels like it 
wasnt helping her with her concerns. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so I cant comment on this in my decision and whether Lloyds did anything wrong here. 
As I say, once notified and based on the information provided, Lloyds took steps to reduce 
Mrs Bs ability to spend with certain sites and, on receipt of permission to do so, can record 
the impact of this on her health and offer further support. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman