DRN-4412976
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled claims under a Prime Let 
home insurance policy. 
Reference to Ageas include their agents. 
What happened
1. The background to this longstanding dispute is known to all parties, so I wont repeat 
it in detail here. Mr W has provided detailed submissions to support a number of 
complaints hes raised about Ageas and has asked our Service to review each matter 
individually. 
2. In this decision, Ill summarise my understanding, but will mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If something hasnt been addressed specifically that doesnt 
mean its been overlooked or ignored  Ive considered everything all parties have 
told us. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our 
Service. 
3. In summary, Mr W owns a property thats been converted into self-contained flats. He 
rents a flat to a tenant. He submitted three claims to Ageas between 2019 and 2020 
after water damage occurred to the self-contained flat rented by a tenant. This 
resulted from renovation works at a neighbouring property. Mr Ws property he 
resides in wasnt impacted.  
4. A third claim was for roof damage Ageas initially accepted, but later declined several 
months later. 
5. Mr W and Ageas have been corresponding throughout this time, but the property 
remains damaged and unable to be rented to tenants. Many complaints have been 
raised and Mr W doesnt consider Ageas have adequately addressed them and 
muddled them up. Mr W has a cognitive disorder and says Ageas failed to take 
appropriate steps to adjust the way they communicated with him. 
6. When works did get underway, there were several issues with the way in which 
Ageas conducted them. These issues caused avoidable delays and resulted in Mr W 
having to send many emails to keep things on track. Mr W was also asked to pay for 
things that were covered by the policy, and this caused further delays. 
7. Ageas reviewed the complaints raised by Mr W throughout the time the claims were 
running. 
8. They responded in July 2022 with their final response letter. They said they provided 
Mr W with poor service, failed to adjust their communication at times, and 
acknowledged the lack of progress. To put things right, they paid Mr W £1,300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. They also said a loss 
adjuster would get things back on track and progress matters to settlement. 
9. Mr W told Ageas he wasnt happy. He says theyve discriminated against him due to 
his cognitive disorder, and how hes been treated throughout was deliberate. So, he 
asked our Service for an impartial review. 
10. The Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend Ageas take further 
action. While he acknowledged Ageas had made multiple failings, he thought £1,300 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances considering what had 
happened up until their July 2022 final response letter. 
11. Mr W didnt agree the compensation amount went far enough to recognise the impact 
on him and his family. Since the Investigators review of matters, a number of points 
have been raised by Mr W and responded to by the Investigator. Mr W also says our 
Service should consider matters hes complained about that occurred after Ageas 
July 2022 final response letter  as the property remains damaged and empty. The 
Investigator directed Mr W to raise new complaints with Ageas. 
12. As the matter couldnt be resolved by the Investigator, the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
13. Our Service and our remit
14. Were an informal dispute resolution service. Were able to consider matters a 
customer and respondent business havent been able to resolve themselves. Our 
role is not to handle or oversee claims, but to consider whether things have gone 
wrong and provide an unbiased answer about whats happened. 
15. Further, our Service can only consider matters the respondent business has had the 
opportunity to consider in the first instance. In this case, Ageas responded to matters 
complained about by Mr W, in July 2022. Therefore, matters that occurred after this 
date do not form part of the scope of this decision. Ill return to this later in my 
decision. 
16. A number of complaint points have been raised. And in keeping with our Services 
informal nature, I will not be addressing each point Mr W is unhappy about. Thats 
not our role. But I have considered everything that happened up until July 2022. And 
its my role to decide whether I find Ageas took reasonable steps to put matters right, 
or if they need to do more. 
17. Its unhelpful to list all the failings and the different ways Mr W was impacted  with 
an associated cost for each one. Our approach is to consider all the circumstances 
and decide what we think fairly and reasonably puts matters right. Thats the 
approach Ive taken here. 
18. Ageas failings, the impact on Mr W, and compensation 
19. Mr W had a terrible time of things  that isnt disputed. And its fair to say Ageas let 
him down here. They should have handled matters much better at times, and with a 
higher level of customer service. The claim incidents Mr W reported to Ageas seem  
on the face of it  relatively routine water damage incidents. There doesnt appear to 
be any good reason why things needed to run on for this long, leaving the property in a state of disrepair. 
20. Its my view the claims were handled poorly overall which is why issues are still 
running. Mr W was subjected to significant delays, poor service, and Ageas failed to 
take reasonable steps to adjust the way they communicated with him frequently, 
amongst other things. Mr Ws felt the need to raise a significant number of complaints 
throughout this time in an attempt to keep things on track  which its clear Ageas 
failed to do. 
21. Ageas July 2022 final response letter says a loss adjuster would ensure the claim 
progressed quickly and as smoothly as possible while keeping Mr W updated. This 
should have happened from the outset but didnt. And Ive seen Mr W was left 
chasing and complaining but matters are no further forward. 
22. So, overall, I do acknowledge there were multiple failings  all parties accept that. 
And I think Mr W should be compensated for the impact these failings had on him. Mr 
W also told us the way hes been treated by Ageas has exacerbated the impact of his 
cognitive disorder. 
23. Therefore, its my view Ageas failings caused serious disruption to Mr Ws daily life. 
Having to frequently chase for things to happen over a prolonged period will have no 
doubt been distressing, upsetting, and inconvenient. And despite his efforts to keep 
things on track, no real meaningful progress was made to get the property back to its 
pre-loss condition. 
24. Its also my view the impact of the outstanding property damage over a prolonged 
period was mitigated by the fact damage was located within a self-contained flat Mr 
W didnt reside in. The policy is designed to help mitigate the impact on Mr W 
somewhat by covering the loss of rent that would have been received but for damage 
occurring. And  despite some timeliness issues with these payments  Ive seen 
Ageas paid Mr W a total of £28,860. The claim file shows payments were made 
between August 2020 up to June 2022. 
25. Mr M says he lost rent for 9 months in 2020, 12 months in 2021, and Im considering 
the payments up to Ageas July 2022 final response letter. As mentioned above, the 
last payment was in June 2022 for £4,200. The rent received by Mr M was £1,050, so 
Im not satisfied that, on balance, the evidence shows Ageas failed to cover the loss 
of rent over the period in which Im considering in this decision. 
26. Ageas acknowledged not all appropriate steps were taken to accommodate Mr Ws 
communication requests. Some responses were sent to Mr W in the way he 
requested they communicated with him due to his cognitive disorder, but other 
responses werent. As such, they accept they provided poor service in this respect. 
27. Mr W doesnt see it as poor service. He thinks that what Ageas has done and how 
hes been treated goes beyond poor service. He feels discriminated against due to 
Ageas failure to appropriately communicate with him. He requested they respond 
under each of his points which Ive seen didnt always happen. 
28. Mr W also says the only conclusion he can draw from this experience is Ageas 
deliberately treated him unfairly due to his cognitive disorder, and to the halt the 
claim. 
29. Mr W is complaining here that Ageas failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. 
In other words, theyve failed their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. 
30. Our Service doesnt have the power to decide whether Ageas has breached the 
Equality Act 2010. But Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding 
this complaint  given that its relevant law  when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable.  
31. In concluding this part of my decision, I should explain I accept Ageas were 
responsible for multiple failings that caused Mr W to experience a level of distress 
and inconvenience  over and above whats naturally expected following water 
damage to a rental property. Mr W says the way things were handled impacted his 
health which Ive also considered when considering compensation. 
32. Overall, while I accept Mr W had a terrible time of things, I find £1,300 compensation 
to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. I acknowledge Mr W endured poor 
service for a long period, but Ive also kept in mind the property damage was isolated 
to a self-contained flat Mr W doesnt reside in. A factor I think would have somewhat 
mitigated the impact the lack of progress and poor service had on Mr W. 
33. Mr W says Ageas havent covered his financial losses correctly
34. The tenant contributed to council tax and utility bills when they lived in the flat. Mr W 
thinks Ageas should cover these costs. But there is no provision for these costs 
under the policy, so I dont find Ageas should cover these. 
35. He says Ageas failed to provide the correct energy refund while drying machines 
were in the flat. Generally, what tends to happen here is a policyholder submits 
evidence of additional usage costs, and an insurer reimburses the difference. In this 
case, it seems Ageas provided Mr W with a proactive refund which I dont think was 
unreasonable. But Mr W says hes not had sight of the calculation they used, and the 
refund was too low. Mr W would need to evidence the usage refund was too low for 
the period up until July 2022. If it was, he should share this with Ageas to cover any 
shortfall. 
36. He says Ageas owe him credit card interest. But he also says this was paid to him 
previously and so its not entirely clear what period or interest amounts Mr W is 
referring to that are still owed to him. 
37. So, if credit card interest owed to Mr W by Ageas remains outstanding for the period 
up until July 2022, Mr W should provide Ageas with evidence for them to consider 
further, and settle accordingly, if appropriate. 
38. Matters that remain outstanding following the July 2022 final response letter 
39. Returning to my earlier point regarding matters Mr W is unhappy with following 
Ageas July 2022 final response letter. 
40. A new complaint has been raised broadly covering the following points:
Delays in works commencing and a lack of contact. 
A lack of response concerning the repair works and a Data Subject Access request. 
An electrician should have attended the property, but a year has passed since and 
that hasnt happened. And that tap tails have not been changed. 
A breakdown of the monies paid to Mr W as part of the claims hasnt been provided.
Ageas damaged the kitchen, lost parts of it, and it was unfair for Mr W to be told he needed to contribute 50% towards a replacement kitchen. 
Ageas damaged carpets, worktops, and the cooker hob by failing to protect them 
during works. 
Outstanding payment is owed for rent, utilities, and council tax, for the period 
following the July 2022 final response letter. 
41. These matters have not formed part of the scope of this decision, for the reasons Ive 
set out above (under paragraph 15). 
42. Conclusions 
43. For the reasons Ive set out above, while I acknowledge Mr W had a terrible time of 
things, I find £1,300 compensation to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
44. I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr W. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to informally resolve his dispute with Ageas  can do for him in this 
particular case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman