DRN-2669330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the cancellation of their life assurance policies by Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited (L&G).
What happened
Mr and Mrs A complained in 2020 after theyd noticed a direct debit theyd set up to pay their 
monthly premium wasnt leaving their account. When theyd asked L&G about this, they 
were told the policies had been cancelled in 2018, after a series of direct debit attempts had 
failed. This was the first Mr and Mrs A knew the policy had been cancelled. 
It turns out L&G had been told by Mr and Mrs As bank in 2017 to change the account details 
for the direct debit. The new details seem to relate to an old account for Mrs A. Somehow 
the direct debits were still able to work for a year, before failing in 2018.
L&G say theyd written to Mr and Mrs A to tell them the payments had failed. But in response 
to the complaint, they accepted theyd been using an old address. Letters from 2016 show 
Mr and Mrs A told L&G two years before the policies were cancelled that they were moving. 
L&G felt theyd been justified in cancelling the policies in 2018, as the direct debits had failed 
to pay the monthly premiums. To acknowledge the impact of writing to the wrong address 
though, they said theyd pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs A. The complaint came to 
us, and our investigator felt this was reasonable to resolve the case.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. Initially this was because their bank denied telling L&G to change 
the direct debit details. But the bank has now acknowledged they did do that. Mr and Mrs A 
still feel that had the address issue not happened, their policies wouldnt have been 
cancelled, and all the stress of this matter wouldnt have happened. So they want more 
compensation from L&G to put things right.
As theres been no agreement about how to resolve the complaint, its come to me for a 
formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see L&G cancelled the policies after the premiums went unpaid. The policy terms said 
thats what theyd do in those circumstances, and I find thats a reasonable approach to take. 
The issues with the direct debit seem to be caused by Mr and Mrs As bank telling L&G to 
change the details to a different account. I cant see how else L&G would have got the 
details for Mrs As old account, other than from her or her bank. So I find it more likely than 
not L&G were following an instruction to use those details. 
Those details worked fine for about a year, giving L&G no clues that there might be a 
problem. So I find it was reasonable for them to conclude Mr and Mrs A werent paying the 
premiums when the direct debits stopped working. 
The problem with L&Gs service here was using an old address to contact Mr and Mrs A. 
Theyd been told the correct address to use, but then used a wrong one. The letters they 
sent to the wrong address would have helped Mr and Mrs A put right the issue with the direct 
debits, and stop their policies from being cancelled. Theyd then have avoided the surprise in 
2020 when they found out the policies had been cancelled over a year earlier. 
Putting a problem like this right usually means putting a customer as close as we can to the 
position they should have been in, if the poor service hadnt happened. In this case, that 
means having Mr and Mrs A covered by their life policies again. I understand theyve 
arranged cover with a different company though, so I find that part of the matters resolved. 
When they first came to us, Mr and Mrs A said they wanted all the premiums theyd paid for 
the policies refunded. I dont consider that a fair remedy here. Those premiums bought them 
life cover, plus the policies other benefits. Those werent undermined by the cover being 
cancelled when the premiums stopped. So the premiums already paid should stand.
Theyve talked about the stress of finding out they didnt have life cover for some time. I can 
see that would be an unwelcome surprise, but fortunately Mr and Mrs A havent had to make 
a claim during the time they werent covered. I find that limits the level of compensation 
needed for the impact of L&Gs mistake here. 
I also find some of the frustration and distress Mr and Mrs A have talked about in pursuing 
their complaint has come from their bank giving them incorrect information. While this has 
made it look like L&G were unreasonably rejecting parts of the complaint, its turned out L&G 
were actually giving a reasonable response about the changes made to the direct debit. As 
such, itd be unfair in my view to expect L&G to fully compensate Mr and Mrs A for all of the 
distress theyve told us they felt here. 
With all this in mind  and with a thought to the awards wed typically give in cases where 
post is sent to the wrong address  Ive decided the £200 payment L&G offered to resolve 
this complaint is the right amount. It balances the impact of their mistake against the fact that 
the root cause of the problem wasnt their doing. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, because the remedy Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited already offered did enough to resolve the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman