DRN-4496217
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy National House-Building Council (NHBC) has declined a claim made under 
his building warranty.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprising of multiple separate properties. In 
2017, Mr E and the other leaseholders, via their property management company, made a 
claim to NHBC for cracking to the property which they suspected to be subsidence related.
The claim was declined by NHBC, and a complaint about that decision was brought to this 
service.
One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a final decision on the complaint in 
February 2022. In this he thought NHBC had fairly declined the claim and he didnt 
recommend NHBC do anything further.
After the period which that final decision considered, Mr E obtained a drainage report which 
he says supports that there is a defect with the drainage which could be causing cracking 
and possible subsidence. This was submitted to NHBC, but they maintained the claim 
decision. 
A new complaint was therefore brought to this service about NHBCs continued declinature 
of the claim.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that the report obtained didnt show there was damage being caused by a defect 
which should be covered, so he said NHBC hadnt acted unfairly by maintaining the claim 
decision or refusing to do anything further.
The investigator also said that hed only considered whether NHBC, as the insurer, had fairly 
declined the claim made under the policy. He said that NHBCs role outside the insurance 
contract, such as its legal responsibilities under contract in relation to the developer and the 
sale of the property, wasnt something he could consider.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
This complaint has been brought to this service by Mr E, with involvement of the property 
management company acting as a representative. Mr E has presented his individual views 
on matters too, and that a claim should be covered under his building warranty. The other 
leaseholders havent presented arguments individually. 
Mr Es building warranty extends to cover his share of common parts which he has shared 
responsibility for. My consideration here is the claim and cover Mr E is provided under his 
building warranty.
The policy
Mr Es NHBC policy ran for a period of ten years from November 2008 to November 2018, 
so has now expired. The policy is spilt into separate parts and which section applies 
depends on when the claim was made within that ten-year period. The claim was made in 
2017. So, the relevant section of the policy which applied here was Section 3. This says:
What NHBC will pay for
A The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuilding, or its Common 
Parts:
Foundations
Load-bearing walls
Non load-bearing partition walls
Wet-applied wall plaster
External render and external vertical tile hanging
Load-bearing parts of the roof
Roof coverings
Ceilings
Load-bearing parts of the floors
Staircases and internal floor decking and screeds where these fail to support 
normal loads
Retaining walls necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, 
flat or maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuilding
Double- or triple-glazing panes to external windows and doors
Below-ground drainage for which you are responsible.
Damage is defined as:
Physical damage to the Home caused by a Defect.And Defect is defined as:
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone
employed by or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting the 
NHBC Requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there may be other 
ways that the required performance can be achieved.
This means that for a claim to be valid under the policy, there needs to be Damage, caused 
by a Defect (as defined), to a specific covered area, and that the repairs cost more than 
£1,000 Indexed. All these criteria need to be met in order for a claim to be covered. A Defect 
or Damage in isolation isnt covered. And the policy provides cover for repairing the Damage 
caused by the Defect. So, the policy doesnt guarantee the property will be free from defects.
The previous case
Mr E brought a previous complaint to this service. One of my ombudsman colleagues 
considered the case and issued a final decision in February 2022. 
In summary, he said the damage to the property which was the subject of the complaint was:
Cracking to external brickwork
Movement joints have opened up
Possible subsidence
Below ground drainage cracked
He said there was no evidence to support there was any leakage from the drains which was 
affecting the property or its foundations. He concluded that the evidence didnt support there 
was damage caused by a defect, so he didnt think NHBC had acted unfairly by declining the 
claim. 
The ombudsman also considered the investigations carried out by NHBC were sufficient in 
reaching that conclusion and said that they didnt need to do anything else or to investigate 
the cause further.
The ombudsman said that if any new reports were obtained which call into question the 
conclusions reached by NHBC, they should be submitted to NHBC for consideration, before 
referring back to this service to consider the new information as a new separate complaint. A 
new report was obtained and sent to NHBC to consider, and their claim position was 
maintained, which is why there is this follow-on case that Im considering here, to take into 
account that new report.
However, during our investigators consideration of this case, Mr E has submitted a number 
of arguments and evidence, including referring to third-party conclusions from 2018, which 
were previously submitted and available to the ombudsman who issued a final decision on 
the previous case. As these arguments and evidence which Mr E continues to present were 
available to my ombudsman colleague when reaching his final decision, I wont be 
commenting or revisiting those points, arguments or evidence again here. The ombudsmans 
decision taking into account those points, evidence and arguments was final.
My final decision here is limited to considering whether the new report and evidence 
provided by Mr E, not available or presented to my ombudsman colleague when reaching his 
previous final decision, demonstrates Mr E has a valid claim under his building warranty. Ill 
also consider some separate points Mr E has raised which werent part of the previous case 
or final decision.The new report
Mr E obtained a drainage survey report in November 2021, this wasnt considered as part of 
the previous case or final decision, so Ill consider whether this demonstrates Mr E has a 
valid claim under his NHBC building warranty.
The drainage report noted that three of the gullies do not catch surface water due to the 
gradient of the slope. Instead, water is only accessing into the system via a single four-inch 
gully. Therefore, in periods of heavy rain they said the car park is susceptible to flooding. 
They said the soakaway is working to an extent, but they were unable to confirm the 
capacity due to no access to the system.
Whilst this does note an issue with the drainage, and that the car park is prone to flooding, I 
dont think this demonstrates there is a valid claim under the building warranty. Whilst 
mentioning issues with the drainage, this doesnt demonstrate or conclude damage, or the 
reported cracking, is being caused as a result of the issues with the drainage.
As outlined above, the policy covers Damage caused by a Defect as defined. The presence 
of either damage or a defect in isolation isnt covered. And based on this report, there isnt 
any evidence which demonstrates damage is being caused by a defect as defined. So, I 
dont think NHBC has acted unfairly by maintaining the claim decision based on this new 
report.
The cause of cracking
I note Mr E is of the view that NHBC should continue investigations into the cause of the 
cracking, however, I wont be directing NHBC to do this. 
Firstly, in the final decision issued in February 2022, my colleague decided that the 
investigations NHBC had carried out were sufficient, and they didnt need to do anything 
further. And Im satisfied that the new report obtained by Mr E also doesnt show there is 
damage being caused by a defect. Im satisfied NHBC has reached a fair and reasonable 
conclusion, so they dont need to carry out any further investigations.
However, I do note that the building insurer is currently carrying out further investigations 
into the cracking which are due to be completed in 2024. 
As explained by our investigator, if those investigations conclude that there is damage being 
caused by a defect then Mr E should submit the new evidence demonstrating that to NHBC 
to consider further. And if he remains unhappy with the decision NHBC reaches based on 
this new evidence, then hed be free to submit a further new complaint to this service in line 
with our usual rules and timescales to consider that new evidence. But based on the 
evidence provided here, which didnt form part of the previous case and final decision, I think 
NHBC has fairly declined the claim. 
Signed statement and qualifications
Mr E has said that NHBC should provide a signed statement from a registered structural 
engineer outlining why the claim has been declined, along with providing qualifications of 
people involved in the claim.However, this isnt something Im going to direct NHBC to do. NHBC has assessed whether 
there is cover under Mr Es building warranty and provided their written conclusions and 
reasons why (including in their final response of November 2022). Im satisfied this is 
sufficient, so Im not going to direct them to provide a statement or qualifications.
Other expert opinions
Mr E has said that other building experts say that the foundations need stabilising as a 
matter of urgency. However, no new reports or evidence, which wasnt available for 
consideration by my ombudsman colleague when reaching their final decision, have been 
provided which demonstrate there is damage being caused by a defect as defined. 
NHBCs responsibility outside the insurance cover
Mr E considers NHBC is responsible for holding the developer to account and therefore in 
his view they are also directly, and legally liable, for any associated failings by the developer 
regardless of the insurance cover.
This includes Mr Es view that NHBC should be responsible, under contract with the 
developer, for the developer allegedly failing to construct the drainage in accordance with 
the planning granted.
However, as explained by our investigator, our consideration here is NHBCs role and 
responsibilities as an insurer in relation to the insurance policy and cover this provides, as 
that is a regulated activity which falls within our jurisdiction. NHBC didnt carry out building 
control, so Mr E doesnt have insurance cover under Section 4 of the policy which provides 
additional cover for failures to comply with building regulations where NHBC carried out the 
building control. So, Ive not considered whether NHBC has any responsibilities, under the 
insurance contract, in relation to this. 
Matters outside the insurance policy provided by NHBC, such as its legal liabilities and 
contractual obligations in relation planning permission, the sale of the property and to the 
developer, and by extension of that to Mr E, dont form part of the insurance cover or that 
regulated activity, so this isnt something which this service can decide as it doesnt fall 
within our jurisdiction.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman