DRN-1964239
The complaint
Miss F is complaining that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has used the 
compensation it offered for the mis-selling of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies to 
reduce the outstanding debt on the loans to which these policies were attached. 
What happened
In 2019, NatWest offered Miss F compensation totalling £10,686.79 (after tax) for the mis-
sale to her of PPI on a number of loans shed previously taken out with it. But rather than 
paying this compensation directly to Miss F, it used it to reduce Miss Fs outstanding debt on 
these loans. 
NatWest says that these debts were the subject of an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) 
which Miss F entered into in 2007. And at the conclusion of the IVA, in 2013, it says there 
remained an outstanding debt owed to it by Miss F of £11,071.73. So it set-off the 
compensation it had offered Miss F against this outstanding debt. But NatWest has accepted 
that there was a delay in dealing with the complaint and in updating her on the final position 
following its letter to her in November 2019. So it has offered her £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience these delays may have caused her.
Miss F doesnt think its fair for NatWest to off-set the offers it made her against these debts. 
She thinks that the mis-sale of the PPI to her was the principal cause of her going into 
default on her debts and needing to agree to an IVA. And she says that this has resulted in 
her suffering considerable stress and anxiety. She thinks that the compensation shes been 
offered should be paid directly to her as the IVA was completed in 2013.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that what NatWest had done was fair. 
Miss F didnt agree with the adjudicators view. She says she accepts that she owes money 
to NatWest but thinks it should still pay back at least some of the money which she says 
NatWest wrongly took from her.
As Miss F disagreed and the matter hasnt been resolved, the case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed it mis-sold the PPI policies to Miss F, so I dont need to look at how 
they were sold. And Miss F hasnt complained about the total amount NatWest has offered in 
compensation, so I havent looked at this either. 
In this decision, Ive only looked at whether it was fair for NatWest to use the compensation 
its offered to Miss F to reduce the outstanding debt remaining following the conclusion of 
her IVA. 
Having done so, I think NatWest has acted fairly, so Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I 
know this will come as a great disappointment to Miss F, so I would like to take this 
opportunity to explain why. 
When Miss F entered into her IVA in 2007, the debts she owed werent legally cancelled or 
written off, they were effectively frozen. So the debts didnt cease to exist when the IVA was 
successfully completed in 2013. 
NatWest has provided evidence to show that when the IVA came to an end their remained 
outstanding debts owed to it by Miss F of £11,071.73.  Miss F entering an IVA and then 
successfully completing it meant, by law, she couldnt subsequently be chased for this debt. 
But the debt Miss F has with NatWest does still exist  because it hasnt been paid back in 
full. 
NatWest is still out of pocket for this money. And it isnt pursuing Miss F for the debt. It has 
accepted it owes Miss F money for the PPI compensation, so it owes her a debt. And it is 
setting off this debt for the PPI compensation against the debt Miss F owed for the 
outstanding balances which remain on her loan accounts which still exist. 
There is in law what is called the equitable right to set off which allows people to set-off 
closely connected debts. This means one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe 
another person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them. 
For this right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection between 
the PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. I must also consider whether it would be 
fair for NatWest to set-off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied for me to find that NatWest 
has an equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation against Miss Fs outstanding debt on 
her loan accounts. 
The PPI sold to Miss F was directly connected to her loans with NatWest. Using the right of 
set-off I have outlined above, I am satisfied the PPI compensation and the loan debt are 
closely connected. 
Despite Miss F completing her IVA, both parties owed each other money relating to the 
same accounts. So it seems fair that one amount should be set off against the other. 
I appreciate Miss F completed her IVA some years ago - and can understand why she might 
think that completing her IVA meant the outstanding debt she had with NatWest was 
effectively extinguished. And Miss F would be correct in as much as an IVA is a formal 
process which she did successfully complete. So Miss F had the protection of the IVA which 
meant she didn't have to fully pay back all her creditors and then, subsequently, couldn't be 
legally pursued for any amounts still outstanding following completion of the IVA.
In this case, NatWest cant pursue Miss F for her outstanding loan debts. But I think it would 
be unfair to tell NatWest to pay Miss F the PPI compensation when Miss F no longer has to 
pay NatWest the monies she borrowed and never fully repaid. If NatWest paid the 
compensation directly to Miss F, shed be receiving compensation for PPI premiums that 
were added to loans and which she never, effectively, paid for in the first place. And I dont 
think that would be fair.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss F has said about the mis-sold PPI being the reason 
why she had to enter an IVA and the resulting stress and financial hardship she has 
suffered. But the compensation offered to Miss F by NatWest is designed to put her in the position she would have been in had she not been mis-sold these PPI policies. So this 
includes the loan interest charged on these policies and also additional statutory interest to 
reflect the fact she could, otherwise, have used the money for other things. But this total 
compensation offer is still below the total amount she never now needs to repay on her 
outstanding loan balances. So I dont think it would be fair to say that the mis-sold PPI was 
the sole cause of her IVA or that it has caused her additional financial difficulties over and 
above what shes been offered by NatWest in compensation.
I have, however, noted that NatWest has offered £50 in compensation to be paid directly to 
Miss F for the way it has handled her complaint. And I think this is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint because I consider it to 
have been fair for NatWest to use the compensation it owed Miss F to reduce her 
outstanding debt. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman