DRN-3866421
The complaint
Mr S complains about the decision made by Volkswagen Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft 
(VW) to decline a claim he made on his extended motor warranty policy.
VW references VW and its agents. 
What happened
Mr S submitted a claim for a faulty boot lid controller on his extended motor warranty policy 
with VW.
But because the cost of repair to VW was deemed less than the policy excess, VW declined 
the claim. So, Mr S approached the dealership directly. However, the repair cost he was 
quoted directly from the dealership was double what the dealership had quoted VW for the 
same job. 
So, Mr S complained to VW. He pointed to the policy and said this was a valid claim. He said 
he was being impacted financially because VW wouldnt accept the claim. He said even if 
the cost of repair to VW was lower than the excess, VW should still help him make the claim. 
Mr S said that the whole point of taking the policy was for assistance and benefits like a 
lower repair cost in situations like this. 
However, VW said it would never have been on cover for a claim that was below the excess. 
As such it had no responsibility for what the dealership charged to complete the repair.
So, Mr S brought the complaint to our service. An investigator at this service reached out to 
VW, who then confirmed that it had reviewed this issue in general, and that there now was a 
mechanism in place for those who submit lower value valid claims to have the claim 
accepted even if the cost of repair was lower than the excess. This way its customers could 
still avail of cheaper labour rates from dealerships, because they had a VW warranty. VW 
said as a gesture of goodwill its agent validated the claim for Mr S, meaning he paid the 
discounted rate. Our investigator communicated this to both parties, and asked VW to pay 
£100 in compensation for the inconvenience this issue caused. 
However, even though the claim issue had been resolved, VW said it wasnt responsible for 
compensation. It said it had no control over what the dealership was about to charge Mr S. It 
said that it wasnt its actions that caused the distress and inconvenience Mr S suffered, and 
it shouldnt have to pay compensation. So, the complaint was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr S complained, he complained about two things. He said procedurally, the practice 
of declining claims valued below the excess was wrong. He said he had a valid claim and he 
wanted to benefit from having a warranty even if his claim was of low value. He also asked 
VW to look at this practice of declining these low value claims as it was impacting all of its 
paying customers.
There is no question over the validity of the claim. The issue here is how the claim was 
treated procedurally within VW and what impact this has had on Mr S. Looking through the 
emails on file, it looks to me like the issue of unfairness to those submitting claims deemed 
below the excess, based on the discounted rates VW had available to it, was something that 
was on VWs radar. The fact that certain paying customers, who were submitting smaller 
value claims, were losing out was a concern, and I can see that this was being discussed in 
the background. 
And I can also see that this was then resolved. An internal email between VW and its agents 
says technicians had received instructions that going forward they werent to decline a low 
value claim but accept claims where work would be covered even if the value falls below the 
policy excess.
Looking at what happened since the complaint has come to us, Im satisfied that VW has 
now addressed this issue, not only for Mr S but for all its customers. The only issue left 
outstanding is whether VW should pay some compensation to Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused.
VW says the policy in place at the time was to decline a claim that was below the excess. It 
says what happened afterwards at the dealership was out of its hands. VW says the vehicle 
technician rejecting the claim had no bearing on what the dealership attempted to charge Mr 
S. It also says that once the issue came to light, one of its agents contacted Mr S and 
confirmed the repair at the lower cost as a gesture of goodwill. VW says that Mr S accepted 
this gesture of goodwill, so he wasnt inconvenienced. VW says it then acted on what 
happened, and it changed its processes. It says this internal process takes time. VW says 
Mr S hadnt suffered financially because of any of its actions.
Awarding compensation doesnt only happen if a consumer has suffered financially. We can 
consider making an award for distress or inconvenience, if something a business does 
results in adverse consequences for the complainant. So even though VW couldnt control 
what the dealership wanted to charge Mr S, VWs policy to initially reject a valid claim that 
was below the excess based on what it would pay was unfair.  Doing this meant that 
customers like Mr S were in effect at the mercy of what a dealership wanted to charge if a 
claim fell outside the valid claims process, even though they have a warranty. What 
shouldve happened is that the true cost of repair shouldve been taken into account. And if 
the cost presented to VW ended up being less than the excess, this cost would be the 
consumers responsibility as per the wording under the excess heading in the policy terms 
and conditions. 
Its clear that VW was concerned that this was impacting its customers, as noted in the 
internal emails Ive seen. So, by not having a better procedure in place before this, Mr S was 
inconvenienced. He had to go back to the dealership and then back to VW, and even though 
a resolution was found, this took a considerable amount of time and effort for Mr S to in 
effect deal with an issue that was already known to VW. Im satisfied VW now has a 
procedure in place, which is aligned with its policy wording to deal with this issue. But I think 
Mr S was inconvenienced. As such I think the £100 in compensation our investigator has 
recommended is within the range I would consider a fair amount to compensate for the 
inconvenience this whole issue has caused Mr S.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Volkswagen Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft to pay:
£100 in compensation to Mr S for the inconvenience caused for the reasons Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman