DRN-2900765
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided by Bank of Scotland plc after he tried to make an 
appointment with a wealth advisor. 
What happened
Mr C has explained that following a conversation with a member of staff he asked for an 
appointment with a Bank of Scotland wealth advisor. An appointment was arranged by later 
cancelled. When Mr C tried to arrange a new meeting he was told that he didnt meet the 
criteria for an appointment with a wealth advisor. As a result, no follow up appointment was 
booked. 
Mr C complained and Bank of Scotland apologised for the service provided and paid him 
£116 compensation. Bank of Scotland went on to explain that to qualify for its wealth 
management services Mr C would need to have a minimum of £100,000 saved with it. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They agreed 
the service provided shouldve been better but thought Bank of Scotland had dealt with Mr 
Cs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr C asked to appeal and said that 
as a result of delays and Bank of Scotlands refusal to make an appointment with a wealth 
advisor he mayve lost out due to lower returns on his savings. As Mr C asked to appeal his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Mr C has been given misleading and contradictory information by Bank of 
Scotland in this case. Mr C says the initial appointment was made following a discussion 
with a staff member about his savings. But Bank of Scotland says Mr C should never have 
been offered a wealth management appointment because he didnt hold the qualifying level 
of savings with it. Whilst I understand Mr C is disappointed by Bank of Scotlands decision 
not to rebook an appointment, as he doesnt meet the required criteria Im unable to agree 
its made an error. 
That being said, as Ive said above, its clear Bank of Scotland has caused some confusion 
here. I can see Mr C has been unnecessarily inconvenienced and the situation has caused 
some frustration. I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C says hes potentially lost out on higher returns from his savings as a result of not being 
able to meet the wealth manager. I take Mr Cs point, but Bank of Scotland confirmed its 
position early on the process, so hes been aware that no wealth manager appoint would be 
made for some time. If Mr C is concerned about the rate of return hes receiving and cant 
meet with a wealth advisor he has the option of seeking independent financial advice. As Mr 
Cs savings with Bank of Scotland dont qualify him for a the wealth management service, I 
cant tell the business to provide it to him. 
Bank of Scotland has paid Mr C £16 to cover his call costs plus £100 in recognition of the 
trouble and upset caused. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I think Bank of Scotlands 
settlement is a fair reflection of its errors and the impact on him. As Im satisfied Bank of 
Scotland has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im not increasing the award or telling it to 
take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Bank of Scotland plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman