DRN-3844663
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Action 365 Limited (Action) administered her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss B had a motor insurance policy arranged through Action who is a broker.
In May 2022 Miss B called Action to make a change to her policy. She was told by Action 
that she was due a refund of £134.12 because of the change shed made. This was 
confirmed to her in a letter.
She didnt receive the refund, and she chased Action for it. Action confirmed she would 
receive a refund.
Action later contacted Miss B and told her it wouldnt be able to refund the money. It said 
Miss B had an open fault claim on her policy and as such she wasnt eligible for a refund. 
Miss B was unhappy and complained. Action said it couldnt refund the payment due to the 
terms and conditions. It apologised for its service, and offered Miss B £50 compensation. 
Miss B has also complained to Action about call wait times. Action looked into it and 
apologised and provided feedback to the appropriate department. 
Miss B remained unhappy and brought her complaints to this service. Our investigator 
looked into them. He said he thought Actions response to the call-wait complaint was fair. 
He upheld the complaint about the refund. He said he thought Action should refund £134.12 
and pay Miss B £50 compensation for its service.
Miss B accepted the view, but Action didnt. It said it had made a mistake and that it was 
acting in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Because Action didnt agree with the view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B brought both of her complaints to this service at the same time and I can see our 
investigator has talked about both of them in the view. Ive looked at both complaints as part 
of this decision and having done so I think Actions response to Miss Bs complaint about call 
waiting times is fair and reasonable. So Im not going to ask it to do more.
Having looked at the other part of Miss Bs complaint, about the refund, Im going to uphold 
this part of the complaint and Ill explain why.
Action has said in its final response to Miss B that it wasnt able to refund £134.12 of her 
premium because she had an open fault claim on her policy. Ive not been provided with a 
copy of Miss Bs insurance terms and conditions, but this would seem to be in line with 
insurance companies in the marketplace. 
But Action are operating as Miss Bs insurance broker here. As her broker Action made it 
clear to Miss B that she was due some money back, and it confirmed this in a letter to her. 
About eleven days later it re-confirms the refund had been requested. It doesnt say that 
Miss B wasnt entitled to the money.
It also confirms it again in a telephone conversation with Miss B nearly two months after her 
initial call, which is made by one of Actions senior staff. During the call I can hear Miss B 
being repeatedly assured that she is due the refund. But at the very end of this call Action 
says the insurer wont pay out a refund when theres a fault claim under the policy. 
Actions response to the view was to say that it had made an honest mistake and I can see 
in its final response to Miss B it says an agent advised you with incorrect information. But I 
can see that it told her she was due a refund, and then re-confirmed it later, and wrote to her 
to confirm it. When Action discussed the situation with Miss B nearly two months later, its 
only at the very end of the call does Action realise why the refund wont be paid.
This seems to me to be very poor service. The initial mistake wasnt realised or acted upon, 
and it took a senior staff member to understand what had happened. So I dont think its fair 
to say this mistake was the action of one agent, it seems to have been because of a series 
of problems.
I think Miss B was reasonably entitled to expect to receive the refund given the repeated 
assurances of Action that it was due to her and the time that had passed.
The reasonable thing to do here is for Action to stand behind its assurances that Miss B 
would receive £134.12 from it, in respect of the premium refund. I think its service has been 
poor and the £50 it has offered for this is fair in the circumstances. So I direct Action to pay 
the £50 for Miss Bs distress and inconvenience in addition to the £134.12 it said she would 
receive.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Action 
365 Limited to pay Miss B:
£134.12 in respect of the refund it promised her.
£50 compensation for its poor service.
Action 365 Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman