DRN-2685300
The complaint
 Mr R complained about the way TSB Bank plc dealt with a problem with counterfeit notes. 
Mr R had paid in money but told staff he was worried the notes might be counterfeit. He 
thought that:
- counterfeit notes should be covered by TSBs fraud guarantee, and 
- TSB should have told him about the outcome of the Bank of Englands investigation 
into his notes.
 
What happened
 On 28 May 2019, Mr R sold a phone for £440 cash. He was suspicious of the notes he 
received. Mr R was a long-term TSB customer and when he went to pay them into his TSB 
account, he told branch staff of his concerns. Mr R said they were helpful, and they counted 
the money, took the serial numbers, and gave him a form. They told Mr R theyd let him 
know the outcome.
But TSB didnt let Mr R know. He wanted to know whether the notes had been counterfeit 
and if so, why he hadnt been covered by TSBs fraud guarantee. Most importantly, Mr R 
wanted to be informed of the outcome, which TSB didnt do. So Mr R complained.
In its final response letter TSB said that it was confident it hadnt made a mistake. It said 
that:
- Mr R wasnt covered by TSBs fraud guarantee because no fraud had been 
committed on Mr Rs TSB account;
- the branch had sent Mr Rs cash to the Bank of England.  TSB said the process was 
that if notes were confirmed to be counterfeit, TSB wouldnt notify the customer. If 
notes were genuine, theyd be credited to the customers account. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He said that:
- the sale of Mr Rs phone had been carried out without TSB being involved in the 
transaction, either as a card or banking transfer. The investigator didnt think the fact 
that Mr R wanted to pay the money into his TSB account was enough to meet TSBs 
fraud guarantee;
- TSBs branch process was that it wouldnt provide a response if the notes were 
counterfeit. The investigator noted that there was a disagreement between Mr R and 
TSB about whether Mr R had been told this when he handed in the notes. But the 
investigator didnt think there had been any detriment to Mr R by not having been told 
the outcome, because the money had been counterfeit.
Mr R didnt agree. He told the investigator that he had contacted the Bank of England, which 
had been helpful. Mr R sent us a copy of the Bank of Englands letter to him. This confirmed 
that the notes had all been counterfeit, and said it had notified the TSB branch on 1 August 
2019. It had also sent a copy of the paperwork to allow them to inform you as their 
customer. The Bank of England sent copies of these to Mr R.
The investigator sent these copy letters to TSB and asked for its comments. But TSB said its 
branch had no record of having received the Bank of Englands letter. And it repeated that it 
was TSBs policy not to notify the customer if notes are counterfeit.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman decision. He said that he felt that TSBs fraud protection 
was ambiguously worded, but he said he would let that part of the complaint go. Mr R said 
that what he wanted as an outcome was for TSB to understand it couldnt take notes from 
customers and leave them hanging. He said TSB hadnt told him hed never hear back. But 
the Bank of England clearly had the right process. Its letter had said for audit reasons we 
are required to reply to our direct customer, in this case the TSB branch. Mr R said he was 
grateful that the Bank of England had provided him with answers even though he hadnt 
been its direct customer. 
Mr R said that the TSB process didnt encourage people to do the right thing by honestly 
voicing concerns about notes. And he asked how it worked if any of the notes had been 
found genuine but the message had been lost and/or the money didnt transfer into his 
account. He pointed out that TSBs process allowed the bank to say notes were counterfeit 
on the basis it hadnt heard back. Mr R believed that even if the Bank of England had found 
any of the notes to be genuine, it was likely hed be in the same position. 
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that when Mr R first brought his complaint to us, there 
were two parts, as Ive set out above. Hes since decided not to pursue his complaint about 
TSBs fraud protection not covering his loss, so I didnt need to address that. But for the 
avoidance of doubt, I agreed that the scheme wouldnt have covered Mr Rs loss in these 
circumstances. The guarantee said If youre clearly an innocent victim of a fraud on your 
TSB account, we will refund the money you lost from your account. But here, the fraud 
suffered by Mr R didnt take place on his account  for example through a transaction made 
by a fraudster or a scam which Mr R had suffered. I said that wanting to pay in money that 
turned out to be counterfeit wouldnt fall into this guarantee.
The main part of Mr Rs complaint is that TSB didnt tell him the outcome of the Bank of 
Englands investigation into his notes.
There was a conflict of evidence about what was said when Mr R took the notes into the 
branch. Mr R said he was told theyd let him know the outcome. TSB sent us a copy of the 
flow chart which branches should follow for counterfeit notes. Part of this internal procedure 
document says that staff should advise there will be no response from the issuing bank if the 
notes are counterfeit.
I couldnt say for certain what the branch told Mr R. And the form for the counterfeit notes, 
which Mr R would have seen, didnt mention outcome. So it was simply Mr Rs word against 
TSBs. Where evidence conflicts, I make my decision on the basis of what I think is most 
likely to have happened.  Here, I considered it was most likely that the branch did tell Mr R 
hed be told the outcome. TSB didnt provide any evidence from the branch, just a copy of 
the procedure the branch was supposed to have followed. I appreciated that the transaction 
took place over a year ago, and this might be why TSB didnt provide branch evidence. But it was clear Mr R felt very strongly about this. He told us that if hed been told at the outset that 
hed never hear the outcome, hed have walked. So I found it was more likely than not that 
the branch did tell Mr R hed be notified.
I said that I understood Mr Rs concerns about any policy which didnt let a customer know 
about notes paid in. This service doesnt have the authority to force banks to change their 
procedures, because thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So I 
explained that I couldnt make a formal finding that TSBs process of not telling customers 
the outcome was wrong and must be changed. I recognised this would be a disappointment 
to Mr R.
But I said that from a customer service point of view, I entirely understood Mr Rs concern 
and frustration in the individual circumstances here. Mr R had been honest about pointing 
out his concerns about the notes. Mr R had been clear and consistent in his version of 
events, and this showed how concerned he was about this matter. So I thought he would 
have been similarly clear about wanting to know the outcome of the situation when he went 
into the branch. I didnt think it was likely he would have accepted TSB saying it wouldnt tell 
him the outcome of any investigation.
So, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I found it fair that TSB should have told 
him about the outcome here, rather than leave him wondering. I considered it was more 
likely than not that TSB did receive the Bank of Englands outcome letter. I accepted it was 
TSBs policy not to tell customers and I couldnt say it has to change that. I said that I 
imagine this policy wont always lead to problems. But, looking at the circumstances here, I 
thought that policy led to an unfair outcome for Mr R as a customer. It would have been fair 
to have written to Mr R, enclosing a copy of the Bank of Englands findings letter  which the 
Bank of England clearly expected TSB to do. It shouldnt have been left to Mr R as a 
customer to have to get in touch with the Bank of England himself, to find out what had 
happened.
And from an audit point of view, Mr R had a fair point when he said that not notifying a 
customer is a security risk. If customers arent notified about the outcome, in a situation 
where notes turn out to be genuine, there could be a risk of the funds being misappropriated, 
as a customer would just assume the notes had been counterfeit. That wasnt what 
happened here, because Mr Rs notes were confirmed by the Bank of England as being 
counterfeit. But its fair to say there is a risk here. 
It was evident that Mr R was aware of this risk, and was understandably frustrated by TSBs 
reluctance to agree. 
What Mr R wanted as an outcome is an apology from TSB, and a change to its procedures 
so that customers are notified in future. Sadly, I cant order either of these. Any apology that 
is ordered wouldnt be genuine. And as we dont have authority over banks procedures, I 
couldnt order TSB to change.
But I found that Mr R suffered inconvenience, frustration and upset because of TSBs failure 
to let him know the outcome of the investigation into his notes. I considered it was more 
likely than not that the branch staff did tell him he would be informed; and I also considered it 
was more likely than not that TSB did receive the Bank of Englands 1 August 2019 letter 
about Mr Rs notes. So I found that TSB let Mr R down in its customer service to him, and I 
considered it should pay him £150 compensation for that trouble and upset. I recognised that 
Mr R didnt ask for compensation. But he did suffer as a result of TSBs actions here, so I 
found that it would be fair and reasonable for TSB to mark this by compensation.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr R accepted my provisional decision.
TSB didnt accept my provisional decision. It said it was disappointed that Id decided in 
favour of Mr R, despite there being no evidence that the Bank of England had informed TSB 
that the notes were counterfeit. 
TSB said that it was contrary to its procedures to inform customers and it was contrary to the 
Bank of Englands procedures for it to inform TSB. TSB said its staff would have followed its 
procedures and sent us further copies of its internal procedures.
TSB said Mr R would have seen TSB staff checking the notes according to its procedures, 
and that staff would have told Mr R they believed they were fake and should keep them. TSB 
said that it would have been reasonable for Mr R to have realised they were counterfeit and 
not to expect them to be confirmed as genuine by the Bank of England.  TSB also repeated 
that its branch had no record of receiving the Bank of Englands letter about Mr Rs notes.
TSB said this service has no right to challenge its bank processes.  It said no error has 
been identified for poor customer service and asked me to change my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered TSBs objections to the provisional decision.
I dont agree with TSBs argument that Mr R should have realised the notes were 
counterfeit, and that therefore he shouldnt have expected them to be genuine. Mr R had 
been honest in telling branch staff that he was concerned about the notes. .Being honest 
about these concerns doesnt, and shouldnt, mean that Mr R forfeited being informed of the 
outcome. And only the Bank of England, not Mr R or the branch staff, could definitively 
confirm whether or not the notes were counterfeit.
I note that TSB claims its contrary to the Bank of Englands process to notify TSB of the 
outcome. But the Bank of Englands helpful letter to Mr R told him that for audit reasons, it 
was required to reply to its direct customer, in this case the TSB branch. And it also sent Mr 
R a copy of its letter to TSB. Ive seen both letters. So I accept that the Bank of England had 
processes which required it to send the outcome letter to TSB, and that it did so.
During this dispute, this service sent TSB a copy of the Bank of England letter. TSB has 
repeatedly said that its branch never received this, but if the TSB branch really didnt receive 
an outcome letter, I consider it would have been reasonable for it to contact the Bank of 
England for a further copy. 
TSB has repeatedly said its processes said it wouldnt tell customers the outcome. But for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I consider its more likely than not that Mr R 
was told that hed be informed. And I think that in the circumstances of this case it would 
have been fair and reasonable for the branch to have done so.
Its correct  as TSB has said and as I set out in the provisional decision - that this service 
cant order a bank to change its processes. To be clear, Im not doing that here. But, as I 
also said in my provisional decision, there will also be times where strictly following a 
process leads to an unfair outcome for a customer in their individual circumstances. So while I realise that TSB was just following its process here, by doing so strictly and inflexibly I still 
think that led to Mr R experiencing some concern and frustration in the individual 
circumstances here. So I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions that TSB 
should pay Mr R £150 compensation for its poor customer service. 
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I  uphold this complaint in part and I order TSB Bank PLC to pay Mr 
R £150 compensation for its poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman