DRN-3782895
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
claim for storm damage under their buildings insurance policy.
The policy is held in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mrs M throughout 
my decision.
What happened
During a named storm, tiles dislodged from Mrs Ms roof. She claimed under her buildings 
insurance and RSA arranged an inspection of the roof. The inspection report concluded that 
there was significant wear and tear and the tiles came away mainly because of nail fatigue. 
RSA declined Mrs Ms claim.
Mrs M complained to RSA. She had two roofers look at the damage, both of whom 
concluded the tiles wouldnt have come away if there hadnt been a storm. However, RSA 
relied on its expert report which included photos showing nail corrosion and it maintained its 
decision to decline the claim in full. Mrs M brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint because Mrs M wouldntve been aware of the 
nail corrosion. He thought RSA should cover both exterior and interior damage and pay £300 
compensation for the distress caused by declining the claim unfairly. However, after RSA 
pointed out that the roof as a whole was in poor repair  which wouldve been evident to Mrs 
M  our investigator thought it was fair to partly uphold the complaint. He said the interior 
ceiling damage, caused by water ingress, should be covered under the accidental damage 
cover. However, he thought a reduced sum of £100 was more reflective of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
RSA didnt agree. Its report and the supporting photos didnt show any evidence of damage 
to the ceiling, therefore there was no accidental damage claim to consider.
Mrs M didnt agree that nail fatigue was the reason for the damage because she couldnt see 
where the nails had come from and there werent any nails on the ground. However, Mrs M 
confirmed that there wasn't any interior damage, so she wasn't making a claim for anything 
other than the roof.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Roof damage
I understand Mrs M and RSA are aware of the three questions Ive considered when 
considering this complaint:
Was there a storm?
Theres no dispute that there was a storm. It was a named storm with peak gusts of 74 mph 
winds and extensively reported in the media.
Was the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Although RSA said the damage wasn't consistent with that caused by a storm, I disagree. 
The roof tiles dislodged, and its generally accepted that such damage can be caused by 
storms.
That brings me to the final question:
Was the storm the only, or main cause of the damage?
RSA said the roof tiles dislodged due to nail fatigue and provided photos as evidence. 
Having looked at the photos which show close-up images of corroded nails, and more 
widespread wear and tear across the roof, Im satisfied that its conclusion was reasonable.
Mrs M said two roofers confirmed the tiles wouldnt have come away if there hadnt been a 
storm. I dont disagree with that. But a well-maintained home should be able to withstand all 
but the most extreme weather conditions. Here, the evidence shows that the nails holding 
the tiles in place were corroded, so it's more likely than not that the storm simply highlighted 
the existing weakness. This is further supported by the fact that the adjoining properties do 
not show any similar dislodged roof tiles, which one might expect if Mrs Ms roof was 
damaged only by the storm.
The policy doesnt provide cover for damage as a result of wear and tear. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that RSA declined Mrs Ms claim fairly and in line with the policy.
Ceiling damage
RSA disputed the existence of any ceiling damage; therefore, it doesnt think theres a claim 
to consider. Mrs M has since confirmed that there isnt any interior damage and she wasn't 
making a claim for that.
In light of this clarification, Im satisfied theres no issue here to consider. Therefore, I wont 
be asking RSA to consider a claim for interior damage, and the compensation our 
investigator proposed for this issue isnt warranted. 
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs M because of the damage her home suffered, Im 
satisfied that RSA fairly declined her claim in line with the policy. And as Ive decided RSAs 
decision was fair, I see no reason to require it to pay compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA had no further comment to make.
Mrs M didnt agree with my provisional decision, but she didnt have any further information 
to provide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any direction from Mrs M about what she didnt agree with, I reconsidered 
all the evidence and arguments. I remain satisfied that my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman