DRN-4069268
The complaint
Mr W, who is a sole trader but who is also separately the director of a limited company, is 
unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) set up the Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) he wanted for his limited company in the name of his sole trader business.  
What happened
In May 2020, Mr W applied to NatWest for a BBL. The application was successful, and 
NatWest issued a BBL agreement to Mr W to sign and return, which Mr W duly did. Mr W 
later applied for a Pay As You Grow (PAYG) on the BBL, and again NatWest issued an 
agreement to Mr W who then signed and returned it. 
In July 2022, Mr W raised a complaint with NatWest as he had intended for the BBL to be in 
the name of his limited company, but now realised it had been issued the BBL in the name of 
his sole trader business. 
NatWest responded to Mr Ws complaint and explained that when Mr W had applied for the 
BBL, hed provided the sort code and account number for his NatWest sole trader business 
account and noted that the BBL and PAYG agreements that Mr W had signed and returned 
were all set up in the name of his sole trader business. Mr W wasnt satisfied with NatWests 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel NatWest had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NatWest have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
In this instance, Mr W is unhappy that NatWest set up the BBL in the name of his sole trader 
business rather than his limited company, and Mr W feels that its evident from the BBL 
application that the BBL was to be for his limited company and not his sole trader business.
However, its evident from the BBL application that while Mr W did input the partial name of 
his limited company, he did so without including the limited part of the company name, and 
thus provided no indication from the inputted name that the company for whom the BBL was 
being applied for was a limited company. And Mr W also didnt provide the company number 
for his limited company in the BBL application.
More significantly, Mr Ws limited company didnt hold a business bank account with 
NatWest, and so the sort code and account number Mr W provided on the BBL application 
for the servicing account from where the BBL would be repaid was the sort code and 
account number for his sole trader business bank account, which was held with NatWest.
This is important because NatWest didnt accept BBL applications from businesses which 
didnt hold a business bank account with them and processed BBL applications using the 
NatWest business bank account details provided by the applicant. And because Mr W gave 
the sort code and account number for his sole trader business  which as explained above, 
was the only one of his businesses that was eligible to apply for a BBL with NatWest  
NatWest processed the application in the name of his sole trader business.
Mr W may argue that NatWest should have recognised that the business name hed inputted 
on the BBL application, while lacking any mention of being a limited company, wasnt the 
name of his sole trader business.
But because of the unique circumstances surrounding the emergence of Covid-19 that led to 
the creation of the BBL scheme, it was anticipated that there would be a large influx of BBL 
applications. So, to enable lenders to process BBL applications quickly, the British Business 
Bank  which administered the BBL scheme  made it the responsibility of the applicant to 
self-declare they met the eligibility criteria of the scheme and to provide accurate application 
information. 
This meant that lenders, such as NatWest, werent expected to verify or check whether all 
information provided by the applicant was correct. Instead, it was the responsibility of the 
applicant to have understood the nature and eligibility criteria of the scheme and to have 
submitted accurate information in any BBL application. And indeed, as alluded to above, 
NatWest processed BBL applications using the code and account number provided in the 
application and didnt check the company name given by the applicant.
Finally, and most importantly, when NatWest issued the BBL and later PAYG agreements to 
Mr W for him to review, sign, and return, these were all issued in the name of Mr Ws sole 
trader business, and not in the name of the limited company. And given that it was Mr Ws 
responsibility to have reviewed these documents before signing them, Im satisfied that Mr W 
was given a clear opportunity to have recognised that the agreements werent set up in the 
name of his limited company as he had wanted. 
And so, in addition to the earlier points Ive made above, because Mr W did sign and return 
these documents  which were written in the name of his sole trader business  I dont feel 
that it was unfair or unreasonable for NatWest to have set up the BBL in the name of Mr Ws 
sole trader business as they did. And it also must be noted that Mr W received the BBL 
funds into his NatWest business account, which was in the name of his sole trader business.
All of which means that I dont feel that NatWest have acted unfairly here as Mr W contends. 
This is because the unique nature of the BBL scheme made it Mr Ws responsibility to 
understand which of his businesses could apply to NatWest for a BBL and to provide correct 
and accurate application information on that basis, and because Im satisfied that Mr W had 
a clear opportunity to check whether the applied for BBL was being set up in a way that was 
acceptable to him before he signed and retuned the BBL agreement documents.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any further action. I trust that Mr W 
will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman