DRN-2765343
Complaint
Mr M says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mr M bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Mr M says he applied for a credit card to help with his finances. In summary whilst Mr M has 
said he was in a stable position, he has also said he made it clear he was struggling with his 
finances and wanted to minimise cost. He has told us he was informed the policy would help 
with approval for the credit card he was applying for. As he was keen to have use of the 
credit card, he says he agreed to have the policy. 
Mr M has said the sale took place over the phone. But RBS says it was sold in-branch and 
has provided a copy of Mr Ms credit card application form which it says shows that it was a 
branch sale. Looking at the completed credit card application form, I can see Mr Ms details 
are all handwritten  including personal details and details relating to his financial 
circumstances. The application form also includes a branch code. So, based on what Ive 
seen I think it is more likely than not the sale took place in-branch.
In order to apply PPI to Mr Ms account RBS had to make it clear that the policy was 
optional, and it had to gain his consent before applying PPI to his account. Looking closely at 
Mr Ms credit card application form, under the section PAYMENT PROTECTION, it reads 
Payment Protection Insurance is designed to protect your Royal Bank of Scotland Credit 
Car payments in the event death, accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment (including 
redundancy). We strongly recommend you take out this cover. For cover just tick this box. 
On Mr Ms application form, there is a tick indicating he wanted it. Mr M also signed the 
application form agreeing to its contents. 
Ive noted that on the application form, Mr M also had the option of selecting whether he 
wanted other optional benefits, such as Card Registration. But Mr M didnt select this. This 
suggests Mr M was aware of the fact that he had a choice when it came to any additional 
products listed on the application form. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr M agreed to the PPI knowing that he had a choice.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about the conversation with the advisor at the time of the 
sale. In order for me to conclude that Mr M was told he had to take out the PPI by the 
advisor, I would need to see persuasive evidence to support this. The difficultly I have is that 
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr M and the advisor when the policy was sold. 
Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of 
what happened can fade over time. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr M agreed to take out the PPI knowing he had a choice and I havent seen anything 
persuasive to suggest Mr M was pressured by the advisor into taking the PPI. 
Mr M has said that RBS recommended the PPI to him. RBS on the other hand, has said that 
it didnt. I dont know what was discussed between Mr M and RBS when they spoke in the 
branch. So I have thought carefully about what Mr M has said, what I know generally about 
RBS sales of PPI and the available information. Having done so, while the application 
contained what I consider to be a general statement about recommending an applicant take 
out PPI, I havent seen enough to suggest that RBS made a detailed assessment of Mr Ms 
individual circumstances or tailored a recommendation when it sold Mr M the policy. So I 
dont think that it recommended the PPI to him. This means RBS didnt have to check if it 
was right for Mr M. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mr M would have been eligible for cover and doesnt appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I havent seen enough evidence to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for him at the 
time of sale. 
Mr M says he would have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work and his job would have come with 
redundancy package. 
Having thought about what Mr M has told us about sick pay, I dont think this means the PPI 
wouldnt have been useful for him. I say this because, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to the sick pay he would have received from his employer and potentially for longer 
 up to twelve months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if he was ever made 
redundant for up to twelve months, in addition to any redundancy payment he may have 
received from his employer. And it would have paid out in the unfortunate event of death. 
Hes also told he didnt have any savings or other means he could have used to cover his 
credit card payments if he ever fell on hard times. 
So overall, I think Mr M could have found the policy useful if he ever became too unwell to 
work or lost his job. And I dont think any better information would have put him off from 
taking out the policy. 
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means RBS 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint. So The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman