DRN-1518891
The complaint
Mr G complains that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim he made on his motor insurance 
policy after his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr G says the car was taken on the morning of 19 February 2019 during the hour in which 
he was walking his dog. He said hed locked the car using the remote key fob that was 
supplied with the car. Covea carried out validation checks on the claim, including having the 
key checked by an external expert (firm A). Firm A said the key supplied wasnt for Mr Gs 
car, but for a different model of it. It also said the key had last been used in 2016.
When Covea asked Mr G for an explanation, he said a local mechanic had told him that if 
the cars engine control unit (ECU) had been changed at any point in the past, a new car 
key would have been provided. And he said he didnt buy the car until 2018. Covea asked 
for comments from firm A. It said if the ECU had been changed, the key would still hold the 
correct vehicle details. And it reiterated that the key Mr G supplied was last used in 2016.
Covea declined Mr Gs claim. When he complained about that, it said it needed to be 
satisfied that the evidence supported the reported incident circumstances. In this case it said 
it had concerns about the location of the correct key for the car. 
Mr G then complained to this service about Coveas decision. One of our investigators 
reviewed his complaint. She thought it was reasonable for Covea to decline the claim, given 
its concerns about the key and its view that Mr G hadnt given it an accurate version of 
events. She said the policy stated that a claim wouldnt be paid if Covea thought it was 
dishonest or exaggerated. 
The investigator noted that Mr G wanted the key back so he could have it investigated 
independently. She asked Covea about that and it agreed to send the key to a reputable 
dealership for further analysis. Mr G provided the details of a suitable dealership, where the 
key was read again. The dealership later informed Covea and Mr G that it was for a different 
model of the same car. It also confirmed that the key hadnt been used since 2016. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable for Covea to have concerns about the claim, given the details that 
emerged when the key Mr G supplied was examined by firm A. Mr G said hed last used the 
key on the day of the theft, but the evidence showed that it hadnt been used since 2016. So 
I can see why Covea decided it wasnt able to accept his version of events. If Mr G couldnt 
show that his account was correct, it left open the question of where the cars actual key 
was, as well as how the car was stolen.
Mr G thought firm A was mistaken, which was a possibility - although I think it was always 
unlikely, given firm As reputation and expertise. But the second analysis  carried out by an 
independent, reputable dealership  confirmed that firm As findings were correct. 
Mr G remains adamant that the key he provided is the one hed been using since 2018 and 
that he used to lock the car on the day of the theft. But I think it was reasonable for Covea to 
conclude that the evidence doesnt support his account. 
I think Covea carried out a reasonable investigation before deciding it was going to decline 
the claim. Taking everything into account, I think its decision was fair. I know Mr G wont be 
satisfied with this, but in the circumstances here I dont think theres any basis on which I can 
uphold his complaint.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman