DRN-4305611
The complaint
Mr G, as executor of the estate of Ms D, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed the grant 
of probate and the winding up of the estate causing inconvenience and aggravation. Mr G 
says that the delay lost interest on the account until probate was granted.
What happened
Ms D, who died on 1 November 2022, held a current account with Lloyds. As executor, Mr G 
notified Lloyds on 4 November via its bereavement form. He said this generated a note that 
Lloyds would be in touch shortly to confirm receipt and advise of the next steps. However, 
when Lloyds didnt get in touch Mr G called on 22 November 2022 and was told no action is 
taken for 28 days, although Lloyds had frozen the account and cancelled direct debits. In 
response to Lloyds request, Mr G uploaded documentation such as the death certificate.
Lloyds reviewed Mr Gs information and wrote to him on 26 November 2022 confirming the 
balance on the account and requested a grant of probate in order to finalise the process.
Mr G complained to Lloyds, and it responded on 17 December 2022 that the delay was due 
to Mr G completing a bereavement notification rather than a bereavement registration, and it 
would have contacted him after 28 days. Lloyds said it started the registration process when 
he called. Mr G said Lloyds hadnt requested the registration form. He asked Lloyds to put 
Ms Ds funds into an interest-bearing account pending grant of probate, but Lloyds said 
whilst the account was restricted it was unable to do so. Mr G said theres no reason for 
Lloyds to refuse this request from an executor, except that it would save Lloyds interest.
Our investigator said we couldnt consider the complaint as Mr G wasnt an eligible 
complainant without a grant of probate. Mr G disagreed, but subsequently provided a grant 
of probate. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Lloyds 
website and the form Mr G completed stated that a deceaseds account would be secured, 
and transfers suspended. She said the form was clearly for those without a death certificate 
and stated he would need to speak with Lloyds to go through the next steps. She said it was 
common for accounts to be frozen between notification of death and evidence of the legal 
representative for the deceased, other than for funeral costs and inheritance tax.
The investigator thought Lloyds 28-day period was reasonable as many people prefer to go 
through the process later and when they have the relevant documents. She said the grant of 
probate identifies the person entitled to manage funds of an estate and is required by banks, 
and our service. She said Lloyds closed Ms Ds account the day after receiving the grant of 
probate in June 2023 and hadnt caused a delay. She thought Lloyds had acted in line with 
its internal processes based on the form Mr G submitted and the documents it received.
Mr G was dissatisfied with this response and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said the investigator hadnt mentioned that the form he completed stated 
Well be in touch shortly to confirm receipt of the notification and to advise you of the next 
steps. But Lloyds werent in touch shortly and had to be chased and should have said it 
intended to wait for 28 days. He said the delay caused inconvenience and distress to the 
beneficiaries, and slowed down the administration of the estate.
Mr G said in law the authority of the executor is derived from the deceaseds will and not 
from the grant of probate and so isnt a matter of discretion for a bank, or our service. Lloyds 
response was also unreasonable as there were no risks from the request to transfer funds to 
an interest-bearing account, and its failure to do so caused actual loss to the estate.
The investigator noted government advice: probate is the legal right to deal with someones 
property, money and possessions (their estate) when they die. You need to apply to get 
probate...contact the financial organisations the person who died used (for example, their 
bank and mortgage company) to find out if youll need probate to get access to their assets. 
Every organisation has its own rules. The investigator said this shows that the purpose of 
the will is to confirm who can apply for probate and as this hadn't been provided when Mr G 
made his request, she didnt feel there had been any error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G complains that Lloyds failed to act on the online notification of bereavement before 
being prompted; wouldnt act until 28 days from the date of notification; misrepresented that 
it would be in touch shortly; and declined to transfer funds to an interest-bearing account.
Our investigator said that our service needs the grant of probate as that is the legal authority 
to represent/administer an estate. This is the position we take to ensure that we are dealing 
with an eligible complainant. An eligible complainant is defined within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) rules as someone who is entitled to bring a complaint to be considered by 
our service.  
To be eligible according to the FCAs rules, Mr G must be authorised by law. Ourselves and 
the banks consider the legal power to deal with many aspects of a deceased person's estate 
to be demonstrated by a grant of probate for named executors, and so this is what we 
require to consider a complaint. This means we may open a complaint file, but not pursue it 
to conclusion until we have received a copy of the grant of probate. And so, although Mr G is 
correct to say that the executors named in a valid will are authorised by law to deal with the 
deceased person's estate, this is confirmed by obtaining a grant of probate, which provides 
evidence that they are authorised by law to bring the complaint on behalf of the deceased. 
Mr G requested changes to the account before he had provided legal evidence of authority 
to represent the estate. I will explain why I think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds not to 
have acted on Mr Gs request.  
Lloyds said it required the grant of probate due to the size of Ms Ds estate, and once frozen 
it cant change the account type or move money to a different account so it can start to earn 
interest, as per Mr Gs request. We find it good practice for banks to freeze accounts on 
notification of a deceased consumer, and this may last until evidence of the legal 
representative for the deceased is provided. This ensures the security of a deceaseds 
account, which could be vulnerable to fraud, and may prevent disputes between executors 
or legatees. Mr G said that this isnt a matter of discretion for a bank to refuse an executors 
request for amendments to an account before receiving a grant of probate. But it is clear 
from the government advice on the subject that every organisation has its own rules, and 
this isnt something with which our service would interfere.
Mr G said the government advice is irrelevant to the complaint as it relates to access to 
assets and he wasnt seeking this, rather he was trying to place funds. I dont wish to enter into semantics, but the text above states to deal with which is drafted widely and would 
certainly appear to include the placing of funds, as desired by Mr G. 
I can see from Lloyds records that when it received Mr Gs online bereavement notification it 
restricted Ms Ds account. The online bereavement page provides two options as to 
possession or otherwise of a death certificate. Mr G selected that he didnt have a death 
certificate which took him to the Bereavement notification form. The form explains that 
Lloyds will freeze the account. Lloyds said if Mr G had indicated possession of a death 
certificate he would have been taken to the Registering a bereavement page. This much 
longer process requests documents that Mr G provided later when Lloyds went through this 
with him. Whichever route the deceaseds representative follows, the account is frozen. 
Mr G said Lloyds certainly wasnt in touch shortly as it had stated, and the delay put back 
the date on which the application for probate could be made. He said the time for the grant 
to be made could only run from the date on which it was applied for. From what Ive seen the 
grant of probate took around six months to obtain and Lloyds acted immediately following its 
receipt. This would indicate difficulties outside of the three weeks between Ms Ds death and 
the registration of the bereavement. 
Having said this, I think it would have been preferable if Lloyds had provided more clarity to 
Mr G about the next steps and the time this would take. I can see that Lloyds procedure is to 
make contact within five working days of receiving the death certificate and obviously any 
delay would have been minimised if this had been provided to Lloyds from the start. 
However, the 28-day waiting period, without a death certificate, is quite long and would 
benefit from clearer explanation. 
Overall, and from the records I have seen it would appear that Lloyds has acted fairly and 
reasonably in its handling of Ms Ds account and towards Mr G. I have seen that Lloyds 
acted in accordance with the form Mr G completed and its automated internal security and 
bereavement procedures to safeguard Ms Ds account.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms D 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman