The complaint
Mr M complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim he's made 
on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Within this decision I have considered UKIs actions up to the point where it issued its final 
response in July 2019 following Mr M's complaint. I won't be considering or making 
comments on anything that happened after this.
UKI appointed an agent to deal with this claim on its behalf and this agent used a number of 
experts to handle the investigations into the damage and the remedial works. For the sake of 
clarity, when I refer to UKI's actions that will include the actions of the agent and the 
experts. 
Mr M has a buildings insurance policy with UKI. In November 2018 he experienced an oil 
leak at his property and reported this to UKI  which it accepted as a claim.
Because of the potential danger of fumes from the spilled kerosene and the nature of the 
remedial works, Mr M and his wife had to move to alternative accommodation.
Remedial work commenced in January 2019 and soon after it was confirmed the kerosene 
had caused contamination underneath the house. Through January and February testing for 
asbestos was undertaken, which came back negative.
Towards the end of April, excavation work to remove the contaminated material started and 
continued through May. While this was going on, UKI says it was found that the footings of 
the property had also suffered contamination. It said advice from a structural engineer was 
required to decide what additional work was required as a consequence.
By mid-June, full scale excavation works were underway. UKI says these revealed the 
problem was much more significant than first thought. Further estimates and input from the 
structural engineer were required to agree what remedial work was required in light of this.
During this time Mr M complained to UKI as he was unhappy with the progress of the claim 
and said this was having an impact on him and his wife. He wasn't happy with the number of 
days UKI's appointed agents had been on site.
UKI responded and explained the claim was complex and involved lengthy and time-
consuming investigations partly due to the nature of the claim but also to the extent of the 
contamination suffered. But it did accept it had caused a delay in the release of the asbestos 
test results. 
DRN-1458020It explained what work still needed to be undertaken, approximately how long it would take 
and said it would do its best to ensure it was done in a timely manner. It also awarded Mr M 
£100 for the problems he'd experienced with the claim.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered all of the evidence and what had happened up to the point when UKI issued its 
final response.
And having done so, he concluded the claim was complex, and while there hadn't always 
been people working on site, that didn't mean the claim hadn't been progressing. But he 
did think UKI had caused a delay in the release of the asbestos results. He was satisfied the 
£100 UKI had awarded Mr M was fair in the circumstances.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I'm not going to be 
upholding this complaint. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by this, so I'll explain my 
reasoning.
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to the parties, so I have provided a 
summary of the background rather than going into detail about everything that happened. 
But I can confirm I have thoroughly read and carefully considered everything Mr M and 
UKI have said and provided us with.
When considering insurance claims I need to keep in mind that a large or complicated claim 
such as this one will inevitably cause a significant level of inconvenience and distress to the 
policyholder. They're also likely to take some time to resolve. I can't hold the 
insurer responsible for those things. 
I can however consider if it took longer than it should have done or if there were 
unreasonable delays in the progress of the claim while keeping in mind what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable. That's what I'll be doing here.
Oil spills present a serious danger both to human health and the environment and often take 
a considerable time to sort out. I note UKI's environmental expert thought the oil had been 
leaking for between three and four months and it was likely up to 3,000 litres had 
escaped into the ground. From this, I think it's clear this was a significant oil spillage and the 
impact of it and the remedial work required was likely to be considerable.
Mr M moved into alternative accommodation just before Christmas 2018 and so 
remedial work started in early January 2019. UKI has supplied a detailed timeline showing 
the work that was being undertaken on the claim.
It's clear from Mr M's submissions, he strongly believes the presence of UKI's agents on site 
was the most significant indicator of progress. It seems to me he felt if no one was there, the 
claim wasn't progressing. But having looked at the evidence supplied by UKI, it's clear that 
there was significant work going on off site. So while there may have only been people on 
site for a proportion of the time, the timeline shows that other work was still going on and the 
claim progressing.Having considered the timeline carefully, it seems to me progress on the claim was moving 
at a reasonable speed and there's little evidence of unreasonable delays. And where things 
took longer UKI has presented a reasonable explanation for this.
For example, in its timeline UKI acknowledges that progress was slow as its operatives were 
only allowed to work in the building for limited amounts of time because of the level of 
odours from the kerosene. I think this is a reasonable explanation given the nature and 
extent of the spillage and the potential health risks involved.
In April, it was discovered that the kerosene had also caused contamination of the footings 
of the property and therefore UKI required further input from a structural engineer to agree 
what additional work was required. I don't think it could be reasonably expected of UKI to be 
aware of this when it first started the remedial works and I understand why they took longer 
as a consequence. 
Mr M has highlighted several entries which he says cast doubt on the accuracy of the 
timeline.
The first of these was the dates relating to the asbestos testing. He says these suggest there 
was a delay of longer than the four weeks which UKI has accepted it was responsible for. 
The key entries are:
"22/01/2019 Potential asbestos containing materials identified works on hold prior to 
asbestos results" and
"14/03/2019 Receipt of asbestos results and updated insured accordingly"
From this, Mr M considers 22 January 2019 to be the start of the delay and 14 March 2019 
to be the end. But I don't agree. As I explained above, I can't hold UKI responsible for the 
time it takes to undertake a legitimate part of the remedial work - such as testing for 
asbestos - only if it caused an unreasonable delay. And while the testing may have taken 
longer than Mr M thinks it should have done, I'm persuaded only a proportion of this was as 
a result of an unreasonable delay. I'm satisfied from the evidence I've seen the delay UKI 
was responsible for was approximately four weeks.
Secondly, he highlighted an entry which relates to the completion of the structural and 
excavation works at a time when he says UKI's agents weren't on site. UKI has explained 
this entry was input incorrectly and relates to the time when work on site was on hold while 
the results of the asbestos testing was awaited. It's been able to provide further evidence 
which shows the entry relates to the planning of the structural and excavation work rather 
than its completion. I find this explanation and evidence persuasive.
In summary, I'm not persuaded these two entries cast doubt on the reliability of the entire 
timeline. And overall I'm satisfied UKI progressed the claim at a reasonable speed but was 
responsible for a delay of approximately four weeks in the delivery of the asbestos results.
I acknowledge it was inconvenient for Mr M and his wife living away from their home and 
understand this must have made their situation more difficult. But, I need to keep in mind 
having to live in alternative accommodation was an inevitable consequence of the nature 
and extent of the incident and the damage it caused.
And as I have concluded that UKI was steadily working on resolving the issue throughout the 
time period in question and was only responsible for a four-week delay the decision I reach 
needs to reflect that.I've thought about this carefully and have concluded the £100 it paid Mr M was a fair and 
reasonable way for it to acknowledge the unreasonable delay it was responsible for, up to 
the point it issued its final response in July 2019. It follows that I won't be asking it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman