DRN-3301234
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) increased his credit 
limit when they shouldnt have. 
What happened
Mr B says the interest charged on his Barclaycard credit card account led him to take out 
other credit cards, more than 30 payday loans and he also entered into a debt management 
plan in June 2021. Because of this he would like Barclaycard to refund all interest charged. 
Mr B took out a credit card in 2001. Initially this was with a different provider but was 
transferred to Barclaycard at a later date. 
When the account transferred to Barclaycard the credit limit was £4,000. While with 
Barclaycard, the credit limit was increased on the following dates: 
August 2011 - £4,000 - £6,400
December 2013 - £6,400 - £7,900 
August 2014 - £7,900 - £9,100 
Barclaycard only have information and statements for Mr B going back to November 2011 
when they took over the account. This means they cant show how Mr B was managing his 
account before the first increase was applied, or what checks were carried out. But they 
have said that since November 2011 Mr Bs account management was very good, with him 
always making more than the minimum payment and that things only changed in June 2021 
when he notified them that he was in touch with a debt charity.  
In relation to the increase that took place in December 2013, Barclaycard explained that no 
negative information was showing when they carried out the necessary credit file searches. 
From what they could see, the increases were affordable with a low risk of default. They also 
said they carried out their own internal checks as well to see whether there had been any 
missed payments in the previous six months, or any defaults. After the increase was applied, 
Barclaycard said Mr B managed his account very well and made many payments towards 
the account balance. 
The last increase was made in August 2014. Barclaycard again said that no negative 
information was found when they carried out their searches, and again there was a low risk 
of default. They have explained that nothing changed in Mr Bs account management or 
spending pattern until he notified them in June 2021 that he was in touch with a debt charity. 
In relation to the account management following that, Barclaycard said Mr B exceeded his 
credit limit in April 2016, June 2017 and September 2017 and he was charged a £12.00 fee 
each time.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and was of the opinion that Barclaycard had 
applied the increases fairly. He explained that from looking at Mr Bs statements, he could 
see that he had been making more than the minimum payments towards his outstanding 
balance and that there was nothing he could see that would have suggested Mr B wasnt 
able to afford the increased limits. 
He explained that the checks carried out by Barclaycard also hadnt suggested there was 
any reason why he wouldnt be able to afford the increases, and as Mr B didnt miss any 
payments until 2021, he wasnt able to ask Barclaycard to refund any of the interest applied 
to Mr Bs account. 
Mr B disagreed. He said that he had relied on his credit card for everyday spending. He said 
that if he had he stopped using his credit card and used his debit card instead, he would only 
have been able to make reduced payments to the credit card as he wouldnt have had 
enough left in his current account. He also said he was spending more on the card than he 
was paying back each month, and he also had two other credit cards (with different lenders) 
which both had increasing limits, so it should have been clear to Barclaycard that he would 
have been unable to repay the additional borrowing within a reasonable amount of time.    
Mr B provided statements from his other accounts, along with a spreadsheet showing his 
income and outgoings for August 2014.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Bs complaint again but remained of the same opinion. He said 
that had Mr B used his current account for day to day spending rather than his credit card, 
the credit card wouldnt have had such a high balance meaning the minimum repayments 
would be smaller. He also looked at Mr Bs statements around the time of each increase to 
see whether there was anything that would have suggested to Barclaycard that he wouldnt 
have been able to afford the increases, had they carried out further checks. He explained 
that even after making payments to his credit card, Mr Bs account was in credit meaning 
further checks wouldnt have indicated there was any affordability concerns. 
Our investigator also explained that while Mr B did have credit with other lenders, that didnt 
mean that it was irresponsible for Barclaycard to provide further lending. He said that the 
lending with Barclaycard was some of the earliest Mr B had been given, and as he was still 
of the opinion that the checks carried out were enough, he wasnt going to ask Barclaycard 
to refund any interest. 
Mr B still disagreed. He said that in August 2014 he had £826 available after paying bills and 
the minimum spends on his credit cards. The money he spent on essentials in July 2014 on 
his credit card added up to £828. Because of this he said he could never have afforded more 
than the minimum repayments. He also said that by using Barclaycards repayment 
calculator, it would have taken him five years to pay off the balance on his card, which he felt 
was unreasonable. He said Barclaycard would have been able to see his other borrowing 
and should have known the lending was unaffordable. 
 Because Mr B didnt agree with our investigator the complaint has been passed to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard have explained the credit limit increases all took place before the regulation 
CONC came into place in October 2014. They said that each increase was assessed on a debt to income ratio and that they were proactive credit limit increases which were based on 
a credit check. They explained that customers would be told about the intention to increase 
their limit and would have the option to opt out if they wanted to.
Even though the credit limit increases took place prior to October 2014, it still remains that 
Barclaycard would have needed to make sure sufficient checks were carried out, in order to 
assess whether the lending was affordable. 
We also dont take into account that customers are given the option to refuse a credit limit 
increase. If someone is experiencing difficulties, they are likely to accept the increase even 
though they are aware they are struggling. 
That said, having looked into everything provided on Mr Bs complaint, I agree with the 
investigator for the same reasons. I will explain why. 
First increase - August 2011 - £4,000 - £6,400
Unfortunately we dont have any information relating to the first increase in August 2011. 
While this is partly due to the account not being transferred over to Barclaycard until 
November 2011, its also because it happened a long time ago. Banks arent required to 
keep data for more than six years, so its not unusual that Barclaycard doesnt have that 
information now. 
However, having looked at how Mr B was managing his account from November 2011 
onwards, I cant see anything to suggest any reason why Barclaycard shouldnt have applied 
the first increase. 
I understand Mr B had credit with other providers at the time, I will refer to them as Bank A 
and Bank B. He has shown a statement from Bank A at the time of the first increase, but 
while he was close to the limit on that card he hadnt exceeded it. And the statement from 
Bank B shows he still had a large amount of available credit left to use. 
So on balance, I am persuaded this increase was reasonable. 
Second increase - December 2013 - £6,400 - £7,900 
Barclaycard have been able to provide details of the checks they carried out for this 
increase. The credit file search data shows that no negative information was showing on    
Mr Bs credit file, that the increase looked to be affordable and that there was a low 
probability of default. Barclaycard said they also checked their own records to see if there 
had been any missed payments in the past six months, and whether any defaults were 
showing. 
We would usually expect a lender to check a customers income and expenditure before 
increasing their credit limit. While I cant see that Mr Bs income and expenditure was 
checked, it does appear as though he managed the account well and made over the 
minimum payments towards the limit on a regular basis. 
I have also looked at the statements provided for his credit cards with Banks A and B. 
Bank As credit limit had increased but Mr B wasnt close to the limit at the time of this 
increase. The limit on the card for Bank B had also increased, but the majority of it was still 
available. 
Based on all of this, Im satisfied Barclaycard wouldnt have been aware of anything that 
would suggest Mr B was struggling to manage his account, or that a credit limit increase was unaffordable at the time. Overall, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong when this 
increase was applied.
Third increase - August 2014 - £7,900 - £9,100 
In relation to this increase, Barclaycard carried out checks and didnt find any negative 
information or adverse data on Mr Bs credit file that would have suggested he was 
struggling financially. 
Mr B was closer to his limit on his credit account with Bank A, however, he hadnt exceeded 
it. And from the statements provided it looks like the balance for his card with Bank B was at 
zero. 
Mr B has sent details of his income and expenditure for August 2014 and it shows the 
income as £2,750.93. His outgoings amount to £1,924.58 and include minimum payments to 
two credit accounts, and bills etc. This left Mr B with £826.35 for the month. Ive considered 
this, but Im not persuaded this means Barclaycard did anything wrong by increasing Mr Bs 
credit limit. He had sufficient disposable income after paying bills and other credit 
commitments to meet the requirements payments on his Barclaycard account.   
Mr B has said that Barclaycard should have noticed he was relying on his credit card for his 
everyday spending as he was only using his current account to pay for bills. But in fact, a lot 
of people do use their credit cards in this way. This isnt unusual as some credit cards offer 
rewards when people regularly spend on them.  
Mr B has explained that he was spending more on his credit card that what he would have 
been left with in his current account after bills etc. He said that had he used his current 
account for his everyday spending as well as his bills etc, he wouldnt have had enough to 
make the payments towards his credit card. 
When it comes to everyday spending, it wouldnt be fair of me to say that Barclaycard should 
have looked into exactly how much he was spending, because this would differ depending 
on the individual. But as the investigator has explained, had Mr B not used his credit card for 
his everyday spending, the outstanding balance would have been a lot lower, meaning the 
minimum repayment would have been lower too. 
Overall, I dont doubt that Mr B had several forms of credit at the same time, but from the 
information I have, it appears as though he was managing his Barclaycard satisfactorily until 
he notified them that he was in touch with a debt charity in June 2021. While Ive seen that 
Mr B incurred three over limit fees in April 2016, June, and September 2017, Ive also seen 
that that payments were made to bring the account back in order within a short amount of 
time. 
Given everything and, considering the lack of information due to the time that has passed, I 
am satisfied that its more likely than not that Barclaycard carried out reasonable checks at 
the point of each increase. I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclaycard should have 
picked up on anything to suggest Mr B was in financial difficulty at time of each limit 
increase. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr B has since needed to contact a debt charity. But I dont think 
Barclaycard would have had any reason to know that Mr B would be in financial difficulty in 
2021 at the time his credit limits were increased.  
Because of this, I wont be asking them to refund any interest or charges. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman