DRN-4342270
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited imposed unfair conditions on 
their lifetime mortgage offer after they had already paid for a property valuation.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr and Mrs R applied for a lifetime mortgage with Aviva via a broker. As 
part of this application Mr and Mrs R confirmed that the property included a separate 
occupied living space. This was a tenanted cottage on the property.
In November 2021, Mr and Mrs R paid around £5,000 for a property valuation as part of the 
mortgage application process. While they have concerns with this valuation, that is being 
dealt with as a separate matter and doesnt form part of this complaint.
When Aviva provided a lifetime mortgage offer in December 2021, this included two Special 
Conditions. One of which said that the self-contained part of the property must only be let 
on an Assured Shorthold Tenancy agreement with a term of six months, terminable at the 
end of the term upon the giving of two months notice; further it must be in our approved 
form.
Mr and Mrs R were later asked to provide a copy of their existing tenancy agreement which 
had a longer term than six months. They also raised with Aviva that they didnt think it was 
reasonable for it to insist on limiting the term of any tenancy to six months. Mr and Mrs R 
provided their reasons for this and offered to include a clause in any future tenancy 
agreements to provide a specific shorter notice period in the event that Aviva need to take 
possession of the property.
Aviva agreed that it would still lend with the existing tenancy agreement in place but required 
any future tenancy agreements be on its standard terms.
In February 2022, Aviva also told Mr and Mrs R that they would need to inform it if they 
needed live-in carers and asked that they provide a copy of their care schedule. 
Mr and Mrs R say that this is private information and that they think this requirement 
contradicts the applicable lifetime mortgage terms and conditions.
At the time Aviva said that it needed to ensure no legal rights accrued during the carers 
residence. Aviva has since said that it doesnt think it has contradicted its terms and 
conditions, and that when it requested confirmation of a carer moving into the property it 
wasnt doing so under the terms of 13.7 (which covers when a borrower would need to 
inform Aviva of someone moving into the property). Rather it is doing so to assist it in 
establishing the care needs of its customers. Aviva added that should its customer qualify for 
long term care this would then exempt them from early repayment charges (ERC).
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy with these requirements and so havent accepted the 
lifetime mortgage offer. They say they should have been told about these requirements 
before they paid the valuation fee  the implication being that they wouldnt have pursued 
this lifetime mortgage had they been made aware of them. Mr and Mrs R have also said that 
theyve spent at least 40 hours dealing with these issues and that its been frustrating.
When Mr and Mrs R complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
In summary, they said that it wasnt Avivas responsibility to ensure the product was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs R as it was recommended by a broker. They thought the condition Aviva 
included about future tenancy agreements was in line with its terms and conditions which 
were available at the time of the application, and that Aviva had acted fairly by allowing the 
existing tenancy agreement as it was. They also didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to 
ask to be notified of live-in carers.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, they reiterated their position. And emphasised that they thought 
Avivas requirements should have been brought to their attention before they paid the 
valuation fee. They say they were happy with the Key Facts document provided and that 
they were under the impression that they had effectively been given an offer subject to the 
valuation. Mr and Mrs R say Aviva has the discretion in its terms and conditions to allow a 
longer tenancy and so it should do that here  particularly as Aviva has already accepted 
that their type of property could take more than 12 months to sell. Mr and Mrs R also said 
that they were told the information about live in carers was a requirement.
The matter was passed to me, and I issued my provisional decision on 23 August 2023. I 
explained I intended to uphold part of the complaint. In summary I said it was fair for Aviva to 
require future tenancy agreements to be on its standard terms, but that I didnt think it was 
reasonable to have required Mr and Mrs R to share information about their live-in carer 
needs. I explained I thought that Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs R £250 compensation.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision, but Mr and Mrs R but noted that they didnt 
think I had explained why I didnt think they would have gone ahead with the lifetime 
mortgage had Aviva not imposed a requirement to inform it of their live-in carer needs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including considering the further comments from Mr and Mrs R, Im 
upholding part of this complaint  Ill explain why. 
Avivas requirement for any future tenancy agreements to be on its standard terms.
I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably by including a condition in its lifetime mortgage 
offer that sets out the terms on which part of the property can be let out. This is because:
As a starting point, Aviva is allowed to set the terms on which it is willing to lend, this 
is a commercial decision. Ill go on to explain why I think its made this decision fairly.
This condition is not unusual in the industry  its common for lenders to restrict or 
not allow tenancy agreements on residential mortgages for legitimate business 
reasons.
This condition is consistent with Avivas terms and conditions, which were available 
online throughout the application process. This lifetime mortgage was recommended 
by a broker and so it wasnt for Aviva to ensure the product was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Rs needs.
The condition was included in the mortgage offer as a Special Condition because it 
was relevant to Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances. I understand Mr and Mrs R think they 
should have been made aware of it sooner, but Aviva considered this element during 
the underwriting process. This was the appropriate stage in the process for Aviva to have considered the different elements that affected its decision to lend. It was clear 
about this requirement at offer stage (and importantly before the lifetime mortgage 
completed) at which point Mr and Mrs R were not obliged to proceed. Lenders arent 
expected to complete their underwriting process before a potential customer makes 
an application or pays the valuation fee. It was always a possibility that information 
could come to light during the underwriting process that may have meant Aviva was 
not willing to lend, could change what it was willing to lend, or impose conditions on 
the lending.
Aviva has considered Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances and used its discretion to 
accept the existing tenancy agreement which contained a longer term. I think this is 
fair as it recognises that Mr and Mrs R already had a tenancy in place that may be 
difficult to change. I dont think this means it needs to accept a longer term for new 
tenancies.
Mr and Mrs R think of the tenancy as an asset and offered to amend the tenancy 
agreement as a compromise. They also say Aviva has accepted the property may 
take longer to sell for other reasons, and that the loan to value is so low that theres 
little risk to Aviva of not being able to recover the debt. While I do understand where 
Mr and Mrs R are coming from, Aviva isnt required to negotiate on these terms. Its 
for Aviva to decide what risk it is willing to accept. Here, Aviva has provided a 
reasonable explanation for why it has included this condition. The property would be 
the security for the lifetime mortgage, and selling the property is a common way to 
repay this type of debt. Longer tenancies can make it more difficult to sell a property 
as not all potential buyers will want to let out part of the property. This is therefore a 
legitimate concern for Aviva to have. Mr and Mrs R think that their beneficiaries 
would likely repay the lifetime mortgage rather than sell the property, but this isnt 
something Aviva can rely on. Aviva has already made a reasonable concession in 
allowing part of the property to be let out on its standard terms and accepting the 
existing tenancy.
Aviva has told Mr and Mrs R that they dont need to be notified each time a tenancy 
changes, but they must all be on its standard terms. This is also in the applicable 
terms and conditions at 14.2(c).
 Avivas requirement to be informed of any live-in carers and for a copy of the care schedule. 
I dont think it was reasonable for Aviva to require that Mr and Mrs R inform it of any live-in 
carers or provide their care schedule. Ill explain why.
In February 2022, Aviva said Mr and Mrs R were required to inform it if they needed 
live-in carers and asked that they provide a copy of their care schedule. 
Mr and Mrs R say this contradicts the account terms and conditions and that this is 
private information.
Aviva initially said it needed to ensure no legal rights accrued during the carers 
residence. Aviva has since said information about live-in carers helps it to establish 
the care needs of its customers, and whether they qualify for an ERC exemption.
Section 13.7 of the account terms and conditions say that the borrower isnt required 
to inform Aviva if someone moves into the property, provided they arent becoming a 
joint owner and therefore a new borrower. Rather it is the borrowers responsibility to 
ensure anyone moving into the property is aware that the property is subject to a 
legal charge and that they may not be able to remain in the property if it needs to be 
sold to repay the lifetime mortgage.
On the face of it, this section does appear to contradict Avivas initial reason for 
asking Mr and Mrs R to share information about any live-in care they might need. As 
it clearly says it is for the borrower to ensure anyone who moves in understands the 
property is subject to a legal charge and that they may not be able to remain in the property.
Aviva has since said that it didnt rely on section 13.7 when asking for this 
information, rather it did so to establish Mr and Mrs Rs long term care needs. Ive 
looked to see if any other part of the terms and conditions references this 
requirement, and I dont think it does. The section on long term care needs is in 
relation to the scenario where the borrower(s) need to move out of the property and 
move into long term care  hence why an ERC may be relevant as sometimes a 
borrower will need to sell the property early to pay for care and repay the borrowing 
early at the same time. There is no link to when a borrower remains in the property 
and needs care, other than the possibility that this is a precursor to the borrower 
needing to move into long term care  which will not always be the case. 
So, I dont currently think it was reasonable for Aviva to require Mr and Mrs R inform 
it of a carer moving into the property, or to share something as private and personal 
as their care schedule. 
So, I think it would be appropriate for Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs R some 
compensation. This is to reflect the upset and frustration caused by unfairly asking 
for this information and positioning it as a requirement, and to recognise the time 
Mr and Mrs R have spent on the matter as a result. Taking into account what Mr and 
Mrs R have described, I think £250 is a fair amount and in line with our published 
award bandings. Ive considered that this isnt the only issue Mr and Mrs R have 
complained about, but it is the only part I intend to uphold, and so Ive apportioned 
the time theyve described dealing with Aviva. This isnt an exact science, and so Ive 
treated it as though they spent roughly half the time theyve described on this issue. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that we shouldnt assume they wouldnt have completed on 
the mortgage had this issue not arisen. However, they have not said that they would 
have. I can never know for certain what decisions a customer would have made 
should the circumstances have been different. Rather, I need to consider what I think 
it is more likely than not based on the information I do have. Here, in that hypothetical 
scenario, Mr and Mrs R would still have had a significant issue outstanding in relation 
to Avivas lifetime mortgage offer i.e. Avivas requirements in relation to future 
tenancy agreements (as covered above). So, on balance, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have proceeded to complete on the lifetime mortgage 
even if Aviva hadnt asked for information about their live-in carer needs. And so, I 
dont think there is any financial loss in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited should pay Mr and Mrs R £250 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman