DRN-2622112
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly allowed her ex-husband to extend 
the mortgage term without her permission. She also complains that Nationwide unfairly 
allowed her ex-husband to take a mortgage payment holiday without her permission.
What happened
Mrs L has two mortgage loans with Nationwide, both in joint names with her ex-husband. 
The first started in 2004 and was due to end in 2029. The second  a further advance  was 
taken out approximately four years later but was scheduled to end around the same date as 
the first. Both were set up on a capital repayment basis. 
Nationwides contact notes confirm it was advised of Mrs Ls separation with her ex-husband 
in September 2016. Mrs L says her ex-husband pays the mortgage in lieu of child 
maintenance payments.
In July 2019 Nationwide received an online request for a term extension and wrote to both 
parties to confirm that it had changed the term of the mortgage as requested. Mrs L didnt 
receive Nationwides confirmation letter but found out about the change and complained. 
Nationwide sent a final response letter to Mrs L in November 2019, saying that it was unable 
to reverse the term extension as it hadnt made an error. It said the application was made on 
line and a box was ticked to declare that both parties agreed to it.
However, in January 2020 Nationwide wrote to Mrs L again saying it sent the letter informing 
her of the term extension to the wrong address and that meant she wasnt given the 
opportunity to object. To put matters right, Nationwide reversed the term change and paid 
Mrs L £300 to apologise for its error. It also removed an arrears balance that had 
accumulated because of the months of underpayment while the mortgage was on the 
extended term. But it said it wouldnt pay for Mrs Ls legal expenses  shed said she had to 
go back to court to prevent her ex-husband from making any further changes to the 
mortgage. Nationwide said that wasnt a direct result of its errors.
Later in January 2020 Nationwide received another online request for a term extension. Its 
records indicate that it didnt allow that request to proceed, but then received an email from 
Mrs L. The email said that, following an agreement in court, the mortgage term should be 
extended again until her final divorce settlement was made. 
In April 2020 and September 2020 Nationwide received an online request for a covid-19 
payment deferral and agreed this for a three month-period. Mrs L says she didnt give her 
consent so Nationwide shouldnt have agreed the requests.
In October 2020 Mrs Ls solicitor confirmed the outcome of Mrs Ls divorce settlement to 
Nationwide where it related to the mortgage. It said the order says neither party shall seek 
for any mortgage secured on the property to be changed without the express permission of 
the other party. And it asked for the mortgage to be changed back to its original term. 
On completion of the change back to the original term Nationwide wrote to Mrs L confirming 
the arrears on the mortgage and requesting payment. Mrs L made a further complaint to 
Nationwide as it was unable to confirm that, should she pay half of the arrears it would 
ensure only her ex-husband was pursued for the balance.
In its final response letter of November 2020 Nationwide said it was required by Mrs Ls 
marital dispute settlement to change the mortgage back to its original term. The arrears were 
generated as a result of the term change. Both parties are fully liable for the full monthly 
instalments and arrears. But it will try to contact both parties based on the contact details it 
currently holds.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She said the action taken 
by Nationwide to resolve the issues resulting from the first term extension were fair. With 
regard to the second term extension, she found that Nationwide was acting on Mrs Ls 
instruction. Our investigator also found that Nationwide had acted in line with the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines about covid payment deferrals. She explained that, 
under the guidance, Nationwide was required to allow payment deferrals to all its mortgage 
borrowers who asked for them, without the need to check their financial circumstances. She 
said Nationwide informed Mrs L it had agreed the deferrals and said she could make 
payments if she wanted to.
Mrs L disagreed. She said Nationwide is at fault because its system allowed her ex-husband 
to make changes to their mortgage without checking that shed given her consent. That 
meant she had to go to court to stop him making changes  at great cost to her, both 
financially and emotionally.
As Mrs L didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To reach my decision, Ive thought about whether Nationwide acted fairly to resolve the error 
it acknowledged and whether it made any other errors. Ive also considered whether it 
caused Mrs L to take court action.
The term extensions
Nationwide has said that it accepted Mr Ls first request for a change to the term of their 
mortgage via its website. It allows customers to make changes to their mortgage in this way, 
but unlike doing so in person or by way of a signed written request, it cant verify that both 
parties agree on the change at the time the request is made. Instead, it writes to both parties 
 when they no longer live at the same address  to give them the opportunity to object.
I think writing to Mrs L, giving her the opportunity to object in this instance was fair. However, 
as has been acknowledged by all parties, Nationwide made an error with the address it used 
on the letter it intended for Mrs L, so she didnt receive it. Ive seen from its final response 
letter of November 2019 that it didnt initially acknowledge its error. But it reviewed the issue 
in January 2020 and wrote to Mrs L again outlining the action taken to resolve the matter. 
Nationwide paid Mrs L £300, changed the term back to the original length, removed the 
resulting arrears and removed the incorrect correspondence address from its file.I understand Mrs L is unhappy that Nationwides system still allowed for a change request to 
be made via its website  potentially without the permission of both parties. But I think the 
actions it took to resolve Mrs Ls complaint were appropriate and fair. I say that because, 
with her correct address on file, she would still have the opportunity to object to any 
subsequent request.
Ive seen from Nationwides file notes that a subsequent request to extend the term was 
made in January 2020. But the notes indicate that request was cancelled before Mrs L 
emailed Nationwide on 29 January 2020 to request that the mortgage was changed to allow 
Mr L to make the reduced monthly payment again. Mrs Ls email said this would be until the 
final divorce settlement in a few months. So, I think the second term extension only 
proceeded because Mrs L gave her permission. I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong 
in that instance.
The pandemic related payment deferrals
Under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance mortgage lenders were expected to 
agree requests from borrowers for payment deferrals without investigation into the need for 
each request. The initial pandemic lockdown in 2020 potentially meant that many people 
would not be able to work and may suffer financial difficulty as a result. So, the FCAs 
guidance was designed to offer a solution to an immediate problem without the delay that 
may be caused by lenders having to assess many such requests.
Mrs L is unhappy that Mr Ls requests for payment deferral were accepted by Nationwide. I 
think its understandable that she would be unhappy, given what Nationwide knew about Mr 
L making changes to the mortgage without her permission. But I think Nationwide followed 
the guidance of its regulator  the FCA. Mr L was paying the mortgage immediately before 
the payment deferrals agreed by Nationwide. That meant the account would have fallen into 
arrears had Mr L been unable to make the payments. And the guidance to Nationwide was 
not to investigate the financial circumstances of borrowers making requests. Nationwide 
made Mrs L aware of the payment deferrals, so she had the opportunity to make mortgage 
payments if she didnt want the deferral to go ahead. So, I dont think Nationwide acted 
unfairly to Mrs L by allowing the deferrals.
The repayment of the arrears 
Following the second change back to the original term, the account was left in arrears as Mr 
L had been making a lower payment for several months. Nationwide wrote to Mrs L 
informing her of the arrears and how she can make a payment. Mrs L complained to 
Nationwide about this and it confirmed that it will try to contact both parties at the addresses 
it holds.
Mrs Ls mortgage is still held on a joint basis with Mr L. No matter what their personal 
circumstances are, they are both liable for the repayment of the mortgage. Any arrears on 
the mortgage affect both their credit files, and the mortgage is secured on Mrs Ls home. I 
understand Mrs Ls frustration that she was asked to clear the arrears, given that they were 
generated because of Mr Ls wish to change the mortgage term. But because the mortgage 
is in joint names, she is equally liable for their repayment. I think Nationwides response  
that it will contact both parties  was fair and what Id expect it to do under the 
circumstances.
In summary
I can see that Mrs L was in a very difficult position, particularly given her health concerns 
and the negative affect on them. I understand that shes spent a lot of time, effort and money on ensuring that Mr L didnt negatively affect her long-term financial security by making 
changes to the mortgage. And I understand that he made the mortgage payments instead of 
child maintenance payments. So, I can appreciate that she felt particularly aggrieved by his 
attempts to reduce those payments. But I think Mr L was the reason her court action was 
necessary. As Ive explained above, I think Nationwide has compensated for the error it 
made and I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably in respect of the other aspects of Mrs 
Ls complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman