DRN-2831618
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr H says he opened the Vanquis account in 2019. He says at the time he had a poor credit 
rating and was in financial difficulties. Mr H says Vanquis didnt carry out appropriate checks 
on his application as they would have shown he was in financial difficulties. He says Vanquis 
later increased his credit limit which was again unfordable. Mr H would like interest and 
charges refunded.
Vanquis says it carried out appropriate checks on the application and the later credit limit 
increase. It says Mr H told it he was in full time employment earning £31,000 a year and 
living with his parents paying £400 rent. It also says it carried out checks on Mr Hs credit file 
and didnt think there were any recent defaults or evidence of unaffordability. Vanquis says it 
checked Mr Hs income and considered Mr Hs good management of his account before 
allowing the credit limit increase.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vanquis had carried out appropriate checks on the application and later credit limit 
increase. The investigator thought Vanquis was entitled to consider how Mr H managed his 
account and that he made all required payments and on occasions greater than the required 
minimum. 
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says his rent increased to £1,000 a month which he pays 
to his father in cash and says he has health problems which mean he cant control his 
spending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on a 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending. This was an application was a credit facility rather than for example a 
loan or mortgage and so I would not have expected Vanquis to have carried out the same 
level of checks here compared to for example a mortgage.
I have looked carefully at Mr Hs application and at Vanquiss records. And Im satisfied Mr H 
said he had an income of over £30,000 which Vanquis checked. Im also satisfied that 
Vanquis checked Mr Hs credit file and considered his debts. And carried out affordability 
checks which concluded Mr H had a significant amount of disposable income per month.
So, Im satisfied Vanquis carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Hs 
application and that the decision to lend was affordable and so not irresponsible. I can see 
Mr H was given what I think was a relatively modest credit limit of £1,000. I dont think 
Vanquis made a mistake in approving the application.
Im satisfied that Vanquis carried out further checks on Mr Hs financial position before 
approving the increase to the credit limit. I can see that it fairly assessed the position and 
correctly considered that although Mr Hs overall debt had increased, so had his income 
position. And Im satisfied that Vanquis was entitled at that stage to consider how Mr H had 
managed his account. I can see that the account was well managed and that required 
payments were made and on occasions in excess of the required payment. So, I dont think 
the credit limit increase was unaffordable and I find appropriate checks were carried out. It 
follows that I dont think Vanquis acted unfairly by approving the increase.
I appreciate Mr H says he has health problems which mean he cant control his spending. 
But I cant see any evidence that he told Vanquis about that problem and I think it is that 
issue that has led to the financial difficulties rather than Mr H being unable to afford his living 
expenses from his income. I also would have expected Mr H to have been able to have 
provided evidence from his father of his mortgage payment and or evidence of Mr Hs 
£1,000 contribution to it. I have not seen evidence that Mr H told Vanquis about that increase 
to his rent and so I cant fairly have expected Vanquis to have considered it.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
application and fairly considered Mr Hs credit file. I also find it carried out the same level of 
checks on the later credit limit increase. If Mr H is struggling to make repayments to Vanquis, 
then no doubt he will contact it, as it ought then to deal positively and sympathetically with 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman