DRN-3163027
The complaint
Mr Y complains about Bank of Scotland plcs actions following his account closure.
Mr Y is represented by Mr B.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr Y opened an account with Bank of Scotland. The account had a £250 
overdraft facility available on it and Mr Y withdrew the full overdraft amount straight away.
Mr Ys account then received two credits into it  one for £30 from Mr Y and one for £5 from 
Mr B. The account was used to make two debit card transactions which put the account into 
an unauthorised overdraft. 
In May 2020, Bank of Scotland reviewed Mr Ys account and decided to close it. They gave 
Mr Y 60 days notice of their intention to close and asked for the overdraft to be repaid. The 
outstanding amount was around £320.
Mr Y explained that he didnt live near a Bank of Scotland branch, and therefore was unable 
to go to branch to make the payment. As a gesture of goodwill, Bank of Scotland agreed that 
Mr Y could make a cash payment in a branch of another bank who Ill refer to as H.
Mr Y went to H but it refused to accept any payments from him. Mr Y said the wasted trips 
cost him taxi fares and he spent hours on the phone trying to sort things out; so, he wanted 
compensation. Mr Y raised a complaint with Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland reviewed things and apologised for the error. They explained that Mr Y 
could go into a branch of H and pay the balance in full. They gave him until 5 August 2020 to 
do this and advised after this date the account would be passed to recoveries. Mr Y says he 
was in financial difficulty and therefore couldnt afford to pay the amount in full.
Mr Y brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She was satisfied 
that Bank of Scotland closed the account correctly and thought theyd acknowledged the 
error with Hs branch by apologising for it. She also explained that Mr Y could have made a 
payment to the overdraft over the phone. 
Mr B, on behalf of Mr Y, responded to our investigators view. He advised that Mr Y wasnt 
able to make a payment over the phone  which is why he had to go into a branch. He 
explained that Mr Y wanted to agree a repayment plan of around £5 per week but H wouldnt 
accept it. Mr B also explained that multiple visits to Hs branch and phone calls were made to 
try and sort out the issue which is why he feels compensation is warranted to Mr Y. 
Our investigator confirmed that Bank of Scotlands notes confirm that money had been paid 
to Mr Y for the taxi and call costs. Mr B explained this was paid to Mr Y for a different 
complaint  which Bank of Scotland confirmed.
Our investigators view didnt change. In summary she thought the closure and transfer to 
recoveries was fair, and thought Bank of Scotlands apology was enough for the error. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Having done so, I know this will come as a great disappointment to Mr Y  
and Mr B on his behalf  but Im not going to ask Bank of Scotland to do anything differently. 
Ive explained why below.
The account closure
Mr B, on behalf of Mr Y, has explained that the complaint isnt around Bank of Scotland 
making the decision to close the account. Nonetheless, I thought it would be useful to 
confirm that Im satisfied Bank of Scotland complied with the terms and conditions of the 
account when closing Mr Ys account. They gave Mr Y appropriate notice and let him know 
their decision in writing. I appreciate they didnt give Mr Y a specific reason for the closure  
but theyre not obliged to. Overall, Im satisfied their actions were reasonable.
Repaying the overdraft
Overdrafts are repayable on demand and therefore I can understand why Bank of Scotland 
asked Mr Y to pay the remaining balance in full on his account when they decided to close it.
Mr Y opted to pay cash into a branch of another bank due to the location of his nearest Bank 
of Scotland branch. Bank of Scotland agreed to this as they have links to the other bank  
albeit they are separate entities. I think it was extremely compensating of Bank of Scotland 
to offer this gesture to Mr Y. Ultimately, they would have been within their right to ask for any 
outstanding balance to be paid to a Bank of Scotland branch. Nonetheless, Bank of Scotland 
agreed with Mr Y that he could make payments to H.
When Mr Y visited Hs branch, he was turned away. H wouldnt allow Mr Y to set up a 
payment plan or make any payments to his account despite the agreement from Bank of 
Scotland. I recognise that Mr Y spent time and money on these trips, but his complaint here 
is against Bank of Scotland  not H. And therefore, I cant fairly ask Bank of Scotland to 
make a compensation payment due to another banks error. 
When Bank of Scotland became aware of the issue, they got in touch with H to rectify things. 
They explained in their final response letter that Mr Y could visit a branch of H and repay the 
outstanding amount in full. They confirmed in their letter that no payment plan could be set 
up and Mr Y had until 5 August 2020 to make the payment and avoid further recovery action.
Transferring the debt
Bank of Scotland notified Mr Y of the potential outcome if the debt wasnt repaid in full. Once 
the deadline had passed, Bank of Scotland passed the account to their recoveries 
department. The recoveries department then elected to use a debt recovery agent to chase 
the outstanding debt. I understand Mr Y is now in contact with them. 
I cant reasonably say Bank of Scotland have acted unfairly by transferring the debt to a 
recovery agent  as they didnt receive payment in full when they asked for it.
Mr Y would have been aware that the debt needed to be paid in May 2020 when Bank of 
Scotland let him know about the decision to close his accounts. I consider Bank of Scotland 
gave ample time  around three months  for the debt to be repaid in full. While I appreciate 
issues occurred at Hs branch, Mr Y has confirmed he was only ever going to try and pay instalments. So, I dont consider this would have made an overall difference, as the debt 
needed to be repaid in full and I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Overall
Overall, Im sorry for the position Mr Y has found himself in. But based on the full 
circumstances of this complaint alone, I cant fairly say Bank of Scotland have acted unfairly 
in their actions. And therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman