DRN-2237269
The complaint
Miss W says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss W bought the policy in connection with a credit card she applied for in 1994. Lloyds 
cant say for sure how the policy was sold to Miss W. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
I think Lloyds made Miss W aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. 
I say this because it seems she did tick the box on the credit card application form to 
show that she wanted the cover. So I think Miss W wouldve realised she had a 
choice.
Lloyds says its prepared to accept that it recommended the policy to Miss W, but it 
doesnt look as though it was unsuitable for her, based on what shes told me about 
her circumstances at the time. Miss W says she was self-employed and that her 
business was secure enough to support her if she was off work sick. 
Ive noted what Miss W has said, but I dont think theres enough evidence for me to 
safely say that her income wouldnt have been affected if she couldnt work. And in 
any event, the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any benefits or income she was 
able to take from her business. So I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit 
to Miss W if things went wrong.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Miss W would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover.
Even though Miss W was self-employed, it wouldnt have been any more difficult for 
her to make a successful unemployment claim on the policy than it wouldve been for 
someone who was employed.
And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont 
think better information about the policy wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Which means Lloyds does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss W about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss 
W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit share it got
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman