DRN-3825807
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC handled a claim about a hotel booking made 
using her credit card.
What happened
Mrs Ms credit card was used to make a hotel booking using an online travel agent (the 
supplier). However, Mrs M says that because of the global Covid-19 pandemic the booking 
would not have been possible so Mr M (who made the booking) put in a cancellation 
request. 
Mrs M says the supplier said the hotel were willing to offer an open-ended voucher to use in 
the future as a resolution which was accepted. However, it was later found that the hotel 
claimed the voucher was time limited and had expired. The hotel then closed down. Mrs M 
wants a refund for the booking so contacted Lloyds.
Lloyds considered the claim in respect of chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (Section 75). However, it did not agree to refund Mrs M. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this  but Lloyds did not change its position. However, it agreed 
that it gave her some misleading information about the chargeback time limits and paid her 
£30 compensation.
Mrs Ms complaint came to this service to consider. Our investigator looked at the matter but 
did not uphold it. In summary, she thought the chargeback was out of time, and there was no 
valid Section 75 claim in respect of the actions of the hotel. She did not think Lloyds should 
pay more compensation in the circumstances.
Mrs M maintains she was misled by the supplier about the voucher which has impacted her 
ability to claim a refund. She also thinks that Lloyds should be paying more compensation for 
the way it handled things.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear what happened with the hotel booking surrounding the events of the global 
pandemic. However, it is worth noting here that Lloyds is not the supplier of travel services 
here, so its liability is limited to the specific card protections that are available. In this case 
these are chargeback and Section 75. So, with this in mind I will go on to consider if it has 
acted in a fair and reasonable way.
Section 75 does not apply here
Section 75 means Mrs M is able to make a like claim against Lloyds for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation (a false statement made prior to the contract being formed which 
induces a party to enter into a contract they otherwise would not have) by a supplier paid by 
credit card in respect of an agreement it has with her for the provision of goods or services. 
However, certain criteria apply to Section 75 in order for it to apply.
One of the criteria is that there needs to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. 
However, in this case I dont think there is. I will explain why.
In this case the relevant supplier is the booking agent that received the credit card payment 
(not the hotel). The creditor is Lloyds and the debtor is Mrs M as she is the primary 
cardholder who has agreed to repay the credit to Lloyds. The issue here is that Mrs M does 
not have a contractual agreement with the supplier here. It appears Mr M made the booking 
as shown by the booking confirmation. He is the customer of the supplier and contracting 
party here  not Mrs M.
I have considered whether Mrs M is party to the agreement with the supplier even though 
she didnt make the booking/appear on the booking documents. But considering the terms 
and conditions of the supplier I dont think they allow for this. So there is no correct debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement for her to have a valid Section 75 claim in relation to the actions 
of the supplier. 
It follows that as there is no valid Section 75 claim Lloyds is not fairly responsible for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. It is also worth noting that even if 
Section 75 were to apply here, there is not a clear case of breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier in any event.
Chargeback
I have also thought about chargeback. Chargeback is not a legal right and the rules are set 
out by the particular card scheme  in this case Mastercard. I have considered the relevant 
card scheme rules and additional guidance published in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.
There is no requirement for Lloyds to raise a chargeback, but in some circumstances it 
would be considered good practice to do so. In this case it appears the most appropriate 
chargeback rule would be that relating to services not being provided.
Here I dont think Lloyds were acting unreasonably in not attempting a chargeback. And 
even if it had done I dont think it likely would have succeeded. I state this primarily because 
it appears the chargeback was out of time. When Mrs M got in touch with Lloyds the 
chargeback was out of time based on the requirement it is raised within 120 days of the last 
anticipated performance date for the particular service. I acknowledge that Mrs M has made 
a counter argument that the voucher was open ended and therefore extended the 
chargeback time limits, but the relevant scheme guidance indicates that in these 
circumstances the chargeback still needs to be made within 540 days from the original 
transaction date. And in this case it would also be out of time.
I note Mrs M has indicated that the supplier made misleading statements about the offer 
from the hotel which led to her contacting Lloyds later than she would have done. But 
ultimately, even if I were to accept this I dont think the scheme rules allow extended time 
limits in these circumstances.
Furthermore, even if I were able to accept that the chargeback was in time there are also 
issues which do not make it a clear-cut case for success in any event. Including whether the 
service would be considered cancelled by the consumer (therefore not giving any valid 
chargeback rights here as the booking does not allow for a refund in this circumstance) or not available (due to the circumstances around the pandemic at the time). Along with 
questions around the nature of the alternative voucher offered and whether its acceptance 
would have invalidated the chargeback in any event.
So ultimately, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Lloyds should refund 
Mrs M because of its failure to raise a chargeback here.
Customer Service
Lloyds has already paid Mrs M £30 as it accepts it could have explained aspects of the 
chargeback rules better. I know Lloyds was ultimately trying to help and I dont think it would 
have made a difference to whether Mrs M got the money back but I agree it could have 
explained things better and been clearer about what specific information it needed and why. 
I also note that Lloyds initially could not identify the original transaction even though it was  
statemented and it put Mrs M to inconvenience by having her clarify - it also appears to have 
asked her for information she had already provided. 
Overall, I think £30 is too low for what has occurred here. I consider that £100 is a fairer 
amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused here so Lloyds should pay Mrs M 
the £70 balance if she accepts my decision.
My provisional decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs M £70 in 
compensation. 
Both parties responded to agree with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision I see no reason to alter my findings 
set out above - which I still consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mrs M additional compensation for its customer service for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs M £70 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman