DRN-2376191
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sesame Limited mis-sold him a self assurance policy.
Where I refer to Sesame Limited, this includes their appointed representatives.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In March 2011 Mr H was advised by Sesame to set up a self assurance policy alongside a 
mortgage. The policy provided decreasing life cover with an initial sum assured of £131,250 
over a 32-year term, as well as £36,000 of level life cover over a 10-year term. It also 
covered Mr H in the event he was unable to work due to unemployment (after an 8-week 
deferral period), providing a monthly benefit for up to two years.
Mr H complained to Sesame about the sale of the policy in March 2020. He said he was told 
by the adviser that the policy was a requirement of the mortgage and so was led to believe 
his lending application would be declined if he didnt take it. 
Sesame didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd found no evidence to suggest the 
policy was a condition of the mortgage and that the policy information highlighted it was 
optional. Sesame also explained that the advisers recommendation letter demonstrates 
Mr H had a choice as to whether to proceed with the application for cover. And that the 
mortgage offer from the provider also only referred to buildings insurance as being a 
condition of lending. Further, they added that the policy was suitable for Mr Hs needs as it 
met his requirements of providing cover in the event of his death or unemployment.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but she 
didnt think the policy was mis-sold. She explained that she hadnt seen anything to show the 
policy was a requirement of the mortgage or that the adviser told Mr H this. And so while 
shed taken what Mr H had said in to account, without any documentary evidence to support 
this, she didnt think Sesame had to do anything further.
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs dissatisfaction with whats happened as he considers that he has paid 
for cover he didnt need. I also appreciate how strongly he feels about how the policy was 
sold and Id like to reassure him that Ive taken his recollection of events in to careful 
consideration. But, having done so, I dont think I can fairly conclude the policy was mis-sold. 
Let me explain why.
Mr H alleges that the adviser told him the self assurance policy was a requirement of the 
mortgage application. And so, he took out cover as he thought he wouldnt be accepted for 
lending otherwise. As Ive said, Ive taken Mr Hs testimony into consideration. But, as I 
wasnt present, I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr H and the adviser. Ive 
therefore considered the documentary evidence that is available.
The mortgage offer letter  dated 19 April 2011  says:
6. What you will need to pay each month

To protect your family, you should consider obtaining life assurance cover to repay 
your loan should you die before the end of the term.
and, 
9. Insurance
Insurance you must take out through Nationwide
You are not required to buy any insurance through Nationwide.
Insurance you must take out as a condition of this mortgage but that you do 
not have to take out through Nationwide
Buildings Insurance
Your building will be insured through another provider. Nationwides 
agreement to this is conditional upon a policy being maintained which must at 
all times cover the full re-building cost of the property, including associated 
professional fees and site clearance
Buildings insurance is the only insurance listed in this section as a condition of the mortgage. 
From the above, Im satisfied the mortgage offer clearly sets out that cover other than 
buildings insurance was optional and so something that Mr H should consider.
The optional nature of cover, other than buildings insurance, is also evidenced in the 
mortgage application form. Under the your mortgage payment protection requirements 
section, it gave Mr H three options to choose from:
Yes  I would like details of how to protect my mortgage payments against accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
No  I do not want to protect my mortgage payments against sickness and 
unemployment and I understand that I will be responsible for making my monthly 
payments if I am unable to work.
No  I have/am taking protection with another provider.
Although Mr H selected the third option, I think the second option shows that he had the 
option of not taking out additional insurance. But, if that was the case, Mr H would still be 
required to make the monthly mortgage payments in the event he was unable to work. 
Ive noted Mr Hs points that the requirement to take the policy came from the adviser and 
not the mortgage provider. But, other than Mr Hs testimony, I havent seen anything to evidence that the adviser told him the policy was required. Or, that if he didnt take it, the 
mortgage application would be declined (or impact the prospect of success). 
Mr H has however referred to an email from the adviser that says:
As discussed earlier please find attached the protection quotes I recommend putting 
in place. Once you have made a decision on what you would like please inform me 
as I will need [to] ensure this is in place before your mortgage starts.
Mr H questions why, if the policy wasnt needed as part of the mortgage application process, 
did it have to be set up before the mortgage was set up. 
Ive considered this email but Im not persuaded that it demonstrates Mr H was told he had 
to take the policy. Instead, I think it clearly explains that the protection quotes Mr H received 
were recommendations. And its not an uncommon practice for insurance policies, like 
Mr Hs policy, to be set up in advance of the mortgage as it ensures the applicant(s) is 
protected against the associated risks from the outset  thereby ensuring no gap in cover. 
I know how strongly Mr H feels about this matter and that he says he was pressurised in to 
taking out the policy as part of the mortgage sales process. But, as Ive said, I havent seen 
anything to evidence that Mr H was mis-informed or wrongly led to believe he had to have it. 
And although I understand Mr H says he didnt need the cover, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the adviser to recommend the policy. I consider life and unemployment 
cover to be appropriate for Mr Hs circumstances at the time.
Mr H has raised concerns about the cost of the policy as he says its more expensive than 
what other providers charged. And hes confirmed that hes since set up a replacement 
policy. While Ive noted these concerns, I dont think Sesame can reasonably be held 
responsible for the cost of the policy as this is determined by the insurer. Mr H couldve 
however questioned the premium cost if he was unhappy with the quotations provided by the 
adviser at the time. I cant see that this happened. Further, I think its worth explaining that 
the cost of the replacement policy cannot be compared as I understand it provides different 
benefits to the self-assurance policy. Its therefore not like for like. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr H is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold. It follows that I dont think Sesame has to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman