DRN-3816306
The complaint
Miss L complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has not dealt fairly with a dispute 
over a payment to a company shed employed to transport a car to another country.
What happened
In April 2022, Miss L arranged for a shipping company Ill call R to transport various items 
including a car to a country in the Caribbean. Miss L was quoted £2,250 to ship the car. She 
says her preferred option was to drive the car to the port herself and return via public 
transport, but on the phone she was convinced by R to pay an extra £350 for collection of 
the car from her home, making her total quote £2,600. Miss L says she expected collection 
to involve her car being loaded onto a vehicle and transported.
The day of collection was 13 June 2022, with the ship due to sail on 19 June 2022. Miss L 
says a man with a rucksack knocked on her door around 4:30pm on 13 June 2022 and said 
he was there to collect her car. He had not brought a vehicle and intended to drive the car to 
the docks himself. As this was something Miss L could have done herself, paying only for 
her fuel and a train ticket, she complained to R, putting the complaint in writing on 16 June 
2022, adding some additional points of complaint which have not been pursued through this 
service.1 She received a reply the following day rejecting her complaint. In this, R said that it 
would have charged more to collect the car on a trailer, and the standard industry practice 
was to send a driver to collect cars as this was cheaper. R accepted that Miss L could have 
driven the car to the port herself, but ultimately she had chosen to have it collected at 
additional cost and had had plenty of time to change her mind before the date of collection.
Miss L paid R to ship her vehicle shortly after receiving the response to her complaint, but 
remained unhappy with the situation. She had made the payment to R on her Halifax credit 
card, so she approached the bank for assistance. She argued R had misrepresented the 
collection service to her.
Halifax considered its potential liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) but declined to provide a refund as it considered R had fulfilled its contract with 
Miss L. Miss L complained to Halifax but it stood by its position, so she referred the matter to 
this service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. I could summarise her findings as follows:
For a claim under section 75 of the CCA to be successful, there needed to be 
evidence of a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
There hadnt been a breach of contract because R had collected the car and 
delivered it to a particular location to be shipped.
R hadnt explained to Miss L how it would be collecting the car, or discuss all the 
1 Specifically, that Miss L had been charged more for collection shed been quoted on the phone, and 
had been charged extra once her other items had been measured for shipping.
potential collection options with her, but it hadnt made any false statements to Miss L 
which would qualify as misrepresentations.
Halifax hadnt attempted another way of reclaiming the funds for Miss L, known as a 
chargeback, but this wouldnt have been successful for essentially the same 
reasons as a section 75 claim.
Our investigator concluded Miss Ls complaint should not be upheld. Miss L appealed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review her case, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person pays for goods or services using a credit card, and there is a dispute over 
the purchase, then their credit card provider may be able to assist either through the dispute 
resolution system administered by the card networks (chargeback), or because they have 
liability under section 75 of the CCA. When presented with a customer looking to raise a 
dispute over a credit card purchase, Id expect their credit card company to consider and 
pursue the most appropriate avenue, or avenues, available to it to help.
Did Miss L have a valid claim under section 75 of the CCA?
Section 75 of the CCA provides consumers with a degree of protection when they pay for 
goods or services using a credit card, so long as certain technical criteria have been met. If 
those criteria have been met (and theres been no suggestion that they havent been in this 
case), then the consumer can claim against their credit card provider for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services.
A breach of contract occurs when one party to the contract does not honour the terms of its 
agreement with the other. The terms can either be express terms (e.g. written into the 
contract) or treated as included in the agreement because, for example, the law says they 
must be. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact made by one person to another 
which is relied on when entering a contract.
The dispute in this case centres on the collection of the car and what was said or agreed 
about that between Miss L and R. In terms of documentary evidence, I have seen a booking 
confirmation with attached terms and conditions dated 28 April 2022, which states Miss L 
paid £350 for collection of the car. It does not go into any more detail about how the car 
would be collected. Given the car was collected and shipped, it would be difficult to argue R 
breached the contract.
Miss L says she was misled by R on the phone. She told our investigator that shed 
suggested to R that she would drop the car off herself, but theyd said the safest way to 
transport it without damage would be if they arranged for it to be collected instead through a 
company they trusted. They did not say how the car would be collected and it seems Miss L 
assumed it would be loaded onto a vehicle to be transported. I can understand why Miss L 
would have been surprised and disappointed when she discovered she was paying £350 for 
someone to drive her car around 65 miles, using her own fuel. By the time she found out, it 
was too late to cancel the collection. 
But under section 75, Halifax would only be liable if R had made a misrepresentation to 
Miss L. Miss L says that a misrepresentation doesnt need to be a false statement, and could also include someone giving a misleading account. Miss L is correct to say that a 
misrepresentation does not always need to take the form of an express statement. There are 
situations where a misrepresentation can be implied, for example. But Im mindful that no 
recording of the relevant phone call has been supplied and in my view it would be difficult to 
conclude an implied representation was made without having more detail of exactly what 
was (and wasnt) said.
Ive thought about whether the seemingly high price quoted for collection, combined with Rs 
silence on how the car would be collected, would constitute an implied representation that R 
would be transporting the car using a vehicle rather than just sending a driver to pick it up. 
But I dont think these things are enough by themselves to mean it would be reasonable to 
conclude that R impliedly represented it would be loading the car onto a vehicle to be 
transported. 
Miss L was clearly mistaken about how the car would be collected, but Ive been unable to 
conclude that this was because of a misrepresentation by R. It follows that I dont think she 
has a valid claim against Halifax under section 75 and that the bank therefore did not treat 
her unfairly in declining her claim.
Chargeback
Miss L has expressed some dissatisfaction with Halifaxs decision not to consider attempting 
a chargeback. Like our investigator, I dont think it would have made a difference if Halifax 
had attempted a chargeback, and thats because for a chargeback to have a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding, Miss L would have needed to show she hadnt received the service 
she paid for, or that it hadnt been as described. This would have been very difficult, for 
essentially the same reasons why I dont think Miss L has a valid section 75 claim against 
the bank. Ultimately I dont think Halifax acted unfairly or unreasonably in not attempting a 
chargeback in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman