DRN-2217992
The complaint
Mrs U says she was given wrong information by Barclays Bank UK PLC when she called to 
discuss a purchase that she was intending to make on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs U was considering making a purchase on her Barclays credit card of approximately 
£2,000. Before making the purchase, Mr U called Barclays to ask how making the purchase 
would affect the monthly payments which she would need to make toward her Barclays 
credit card.
Mrs U says that the Barclays advisor told her that the monthly repayments would be £53 
and that she would need to make these payments over a period of three years to pay off the 
approximately £2,000 credit she was planning on using.
Based on the information given to her by Barclays, Mrs U went ahead and made the 
purchase. However, Mrs U later discovered that the balance on her Barclays credit card 
wasnt reducing as she was expecting it to do, despite her making the £53 monthly 
payments. Mrs U contacted Barclays about this and was told that, at her present rate of 
repayment, it would take over 23 years to clear the balance on her credit card.
Mrs U wasnt happy about this and made a complaint. Barclays looked at Mrs Us complaint, 
but they didnt agree that they had told Mrs U that it would only take three years to clear the 
balance if she made payment of £53 per month, and so they didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs U wasnt happy with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But having listened to a recording of the 
telephone call between Mrs U and the Barclays advisor, our investigator agreed that 
Barclays hadnt told Mrs U that the balance would be cleared in three years. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint either.
Mrs U remained dissatisfied and so her complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that I have reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and 
for the same reason.
I understand that Mrs U believes that she asked Barclays specifically how long it would take 
her to clear the balance of the purchase she was considering making, and that she was told 
that this would take three years. However, in this instance I have been able to listen to a 
recording of the telephone call where Mrs U called Barclays, and I can confirm that Mrs U 
didnt ask a question to the Barclays advisor about how long the repayments would take to 
clear the balance, and at no point during the call is a timeframe of three years mentioned or 
discussed.
Indeed, having listened to the call, Barclays advisor specifically states that £53 per month 
would be a minimum payment. Neither the advisor or Mrs U at any time on the call raise the 
issue of how long these minimum payments would be required to clear the balance of the 
intended purchase to zero.
Its notable on the telephone call that Mrs U states that she is aware that, prior to her making 
the intended purchase, the minimum monthly payments required on the credit card are 
around £10, but that she had recently been paying more than this, closer to £30, because 
she could afford to do so at this time. 
Considering this, it appears that Mrs U understood the nature of the credit card including that 
minimum payments were the minimum amount of monthly repayment required by Barclays. 
It follows then that it is more likely than not that Mrs U would have understood what the 
advisor meant when he explained to her that the £53 monthly payment quoted would be a 
minimum payment amount on the credit card, if she were to make the intended purchase.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
As I have explained above, while Mrs U believes that she was told that the balance would be 
cleared over a term of three years, the recording of the telephone call provided by Barclays 
confirms that this wasnt the case. 
I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mrs U was wanting, but I hope she can 
understand, based on the evidence I have available to me, why I wont be upholding this 
complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman