DRN-3389649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined to pay their 
travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have travel insurance as a benefit through their bank account. In 2019 they 
booked a trip abroad, including flights and accommodation, departing on 8 April 2020 to a 
country Ill refer to as P. 
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Around the same time, P announced a State of 
Emergency as a result of the spread of coronavirus. This limited movement and travel in 
and out of the country.
Due to this situation, Mr and Mrs Ws flights were cancelled by the provider, who offered a 
voucher for future use. UKI initially told Mr and Mrs W they werent covered for the flights as 
they have been offered a credit note but, with legal assistance provided by UKI, they have 
subsequently been able to obtain a refund.
The accommodation provider initially refused any refund for the booking. However, it did 
agree to transfer the booking to new dates, but this offer was only valid for one year from the 
date of the initial trip. On 18 March 2020, Mr and Mrs W rearranged their stay for December 
2020. 
Unfortunately, due to travel restrictions in both the UK and P, Mr and Mrs W were unable to 
travel in December 2020 and so they made a claim to UKI for the unused hotel cost.
 
UKI declined the claim.  It said that, in order to be covered, the FCDO advice not to travel 
had to come into force after the trip was booked. UKI said that, when Mr and Mrs W 
rebooked the trip in March 2020, the advice not to travel to their destination was already in 
place so the claim wasnt covered by the policy.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs W complained to UKI and brought their complaint 
to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He found that, although there was 
FCDO advice in place when Mr and Mrs W rearranged the hotel, he didnt think it was fair for 
UKI to refuse the claim on this basis  he felt the booking date that should be considered is 
the date they initially made the booking, in 2019.
In addition, he also said the policy covered cancellation claims for natural disasters, and the 
definition of this included pandemics. Whilst he noted the policy excluded claims for 
anticipated events, he said that as the credit was only for one year, he thought it reasonable 
that Mr and Mrs W would look to use the voucher as soon as possible. And he didnt think 
they could have anticipated that Covid-19 would still be an issue so many months later. He 
also pointed out that the FCDO advice for travel to P did change, in late August 2020, but 
this was reinstated in September 2020. So, the chances for Mr and Mrs W to rebook, when 
FCDO advice wasnt in force, was limited. He thought UKI should pay the claim.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the investigators view but UKI didnt. It reiterated that the policy 
excludes anticipated events and that, making the booking one day after a global travel 
restriction was announced, was too early to speculate that travel would be ok. UKI also said 
if Mr and Mrs W had waited they may have been able to use the voucher when the travel 
restrictions were lifted  or if they hadnt used it at all it was possible that it would have just 
expired or been extended by the provider. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
promptly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy includes a section titled Cancelling Your Trip (up to the point of departure) which 
provides cover for the travel that has to be cancelled. Within this section, the policy includes 
a list of reasons for cancellation that it provides cover for. The covered reasons relevant to 
this claim are:
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened 
yourcurrent account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
10. Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster.
The definition under the policy for the term natural disaster includes pandemics.
The cancellation section also includes a list of exclusions that apply to claims for cancelled 
trips. It says:
We wont pay for:
11. Anything mentioned in the general exclusions
12. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):
 2 Anticipated events.
This is further described in the Specific Exclusions section as:
2. Anticipated events 
Any claim for costs you have incurred as a result of an anticipated event.And the definition of Anticipated event is given as:
Any event that you knew would happen or could reasonably have expected to 
happen at the time you became an insured person, the date when you booked 
your trip or when buying an upgrade, whichever is later.
Was the claim declined unfairly?
Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip planned for December 2020 as a result of travel 
restrictions imposed by the FCDO prior to their holiday. As detailed above, the policy does 
include cover for the cancellation of a trip due to the FCDO advising against all but essential 
travel to a destination. However, the policy states that the advice must come in after a trip is 
booked, not before. UKI has stated that, as the FCDO had announced travel restrictions the 
day before Mr and Mrs W rebooked the trip, cover isnt provided. 
Having looked at the policy terms, it is clear that, at the time of making the new 
arrangements for December 2020, there was FCDO advice against travel. However, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to decline the claim on this basis. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W initially booked this trip in 2019. When their flights were cancelled in March 
2020, Mr and Mrs W were unable to travel so they arranged with the hotel to make their visit 
on a later date. I consider this to be a rearrangement of the initial trip, as opposed to it being 
a whole new booking. Taking that into account, I think it would unfair to consider the 
rearrangement of their travel on 18 March 2020 as the date of booking. At the time of 
booking in 2019, there was no FCDO advice in place regarding travel to this destination. Im 
therefore persuaded it is fair and reasonable to consider that Mr and Mrs W have met the 
requirements of the policy in relation to a claim for a cancelled trip due to FCDO advice 
against travel.
Ive also considered that the advice against travel in place at the time Mr and Mrs W made 
these rearrangements was lifted for travel to P in August 2020, allowing visitors to enter the 
country. The FCDO then advised against travel to this destination in September 2020 and 
this was followed by another nationwide lockdown a couple of months later. So, even if I 
accepted the booking date as being in March 2020, I dont think it would be fair to say that 
the FCDO advice which caused the cancellation in December 2020 had been in place at the 
time Mr and Mrs W rearranged their trip. 
In addition to this, there is cover for cancellation if the accommodation cannot be used if the 
surrounding area is affected by a natural disaster. A natural disaster is defined to include 
pandemics. At the time Mr and Mrs W were due to travel, the UK government had made the 
decision to restrict travel to P as a result of the ongoing risk of Covid-19 in that country. And 
Im aware that in the month leading up to their travel in December 2020, P was experiencing 
increased infection rates. As a result, I think its reasonable to suggest that the area Mr and 
Mrs W were due to be travelling to was impacted by the pandemic  and therefore it is a 
natural disaster as defined by the policy.
Taking all of this into account, I think that the policy includes cover for the cancellation claim 
for these listed reasons. But UKI has also referred to the exclusion relating to anticipated 
events which it says applies to the claim. 
For this to apply I need to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs W were aware that the cancellation of 
their trip would happen or that they could reasonably anticipate that this was likely to happen 
as a result of Covid-19 when they booked the trip. UKI has argued that at the time of 
rebooking, the country was one day into a global travel restriction, the like of which had never been seen before. It believes the pandemic travel restrictions should be considered as 
an anticipated event  and excluded from cover. 
Ive thought about this point very carefully. As detailed previously, I think it is fair and 
reasonable to use the initial booking date in 2019 in this scenario. At this point the UK was 
not in a global travel restriction and I dont think there could be any doubt that this wouldnt 
have been an anticipated event at that time. However, even if I was to accept the date they 
rearranged the trip in March 2020 as the date of booking, Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair and reasonable to apply the exclusion relating to anticipated events in the particular 
circumstances of this case. 
We are now over two years from the time the initial travel restrictions were put in place and 
are very much aware of how things progressed throughout this time period. However, I think 
it is easy to allow hindsight to cloud our judgement. What I must consider is whether Mr and 
Mrs W could have known this would happen, or reasonably have expected this to happen, at 
the time they rearranged their travel. And at that point I dont think they would have 
anticipated that they wouldnt be able to travel abroad more than nine months later, as a 
result of the pandemic. As it was such an unprecedented situation, I think it is even less 
likely that the longevity of the pandemic and the impact on travel would have been foreseen. 
It is also important to note, at this point, that the FCDO advice against non-essential travel 
that was put in place in March 2020 was initially only for a period of 30 days. So, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to apply this exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ws claim for 
the cancelled trip.
Im aware that UKI has also argued that, if Mr and Mrs W had waited until the travel 
restrictions were lifted in August 2020, they may have been able to use it. This may be the 
case, but as the restrictions were lifted for such a limited time period, this seems unlikely. 
UKI has also said that if they hadnt rearranged their travel at all, the unused voucher may 
have been extended by the accommodation provider. Whilst this is a possibility, I do need to 
bear in mind that Mr and Mrs W have told us that initially the provider didnt offer them any 
refund of their costs  the offer of a voucher was only made after Mr W made further contact 
with them. So, it seems unlikely that the provider would have extended the voucher, or 
indeed offered a refund after the time period expired.  But regardless of what the 
accommodation provider may or may not have done in that scenario, the purpose of being 
given any form of credit is to enable you to use it at a different point and so I dont think it is 
reasonable to suggest that Mr and Mrs W shouldnt have tried to use the voucher. So, this 
doesnt alter my opinion.
Overall, when taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that UKI has acted fairly 
when declining the claim. Im satisfied that, on a fair and reasonable basis, Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim for the cancellation of their trip in December 2020 is covered by the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Putting things right
I require UKI to do the following:
Pay the claim, taking into account any applicable policy limits or excesses
Pay 8% simple interest from the date the claim was submitted to the date of 
settlement
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs 
W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriateMy final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman