DRN-3083641
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Zurich Insurance PLCs decision to reject a claim he made 
under his buildings insurance policy.
All reference to the insurer Zurich in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ds next door neighbour began renovation works to their property and Mr D said the 
works caused damage to his. He made a claim to Zurich as he said cracks had appeared to 
the adjoining wall which werent there before.
Zurich appointed a structural engineer to inspect the damage. When it received their report, 
Zurich declined Mr Ds claim as it said no insured event had occurred. 
Mr D complained to Zurich but it said its decision was correct. It offered for Mr D to arrange 
an independent report at his own cost. If the report contradicted the structural engineers 
findings, it said it would reconsider the claim. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. He wants Zurich to cover the costs to re-plaster the 
adjoining wall and redecorate the affected room. 
Our investigator thought Zurich had reached its decision to decline the claim in a reasonable 
way. She thought it was fair for it to rely on the opinion of the engineer  and there was no 
evidence of an insured event having taken place. 
Mr D didnt agree. He says his evidence should be enough without the need to obtain an 
independent report at a cost of £500. He provided Zurich with photos of the wall before the 
works began showing no cracks  and none of the other walls in his property have cracks. 
Mr D is unhappy that we havent asked for a copy of a report he has from the local council 
showing there was no structural movement to the building prior to a major repair programme 
a few years ago.
So as Mr D doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for us to decide a claim  but we look at what the policy says and whether an insurer 
acted reasonably when reaching its decision. 
Mr Ds policy with Zurich  like most insurance policies - doesnt provide cover for every 
eventuality, but for specific insured perils such as flood, storm, subsidence or sometimes 
accidental damage.
In order to consider Mr Ds claim, Zurich instructed an independent structural engineer to 
assess the damage which Mr D says was caused by the works being undertaken next door.
The engineers opinion was that the defect noted was caused by slight ongoing differential 
settlement movement, which may be seasonally focused. He advised that this is typical in 
buildings of this age and type. 
The report mentions that the building underwent major refurbishments in 2017 to 2018. The 
engineer reported that he couldnt discount some influence on the loadings and behaviour of 
the structure after these alterations which had included structural changes. In other words, 
the engineer is of the view that the works in 2017 to 2018 may have had an impact. So I 
dont think the report Mr D has offered to provide from the council is relevant in this case  
as it relates to the condition of the building before such major works were carried out. 
Ive looked at the evidence Mr D provided  but I dont think it shows the engineers report 
was incorrect. And I understand Mr D believes he has a valid claim for accidental damage. 
But I think Zurichs decision to give more weight to the professional opinion of a structural 
engineer was fair and reasonable in this case. And I think Zurichs offer to reconsider the 
claim if Mr D provide evidence of equal weight  an independent engineer report  was a fair 
approach to take. 
If an independent engineers report supported Mr Ds claim  and Zurich accepted his claim 
 I would expect Zurich to reimburse Mr D for the costs of the report. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think Zurichs decision to 
decline his claim was unreasonable. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman