DRN-2440377
The complaint
Mr I complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy as 50/50 split liability.
What happened
Mr I was involved in an incident with a motorcyclist. UKI investigated the claim and settled it 
as split liability. But Mr I thought UKI should have obtained a police report first. He wanted it 
to reopen the claim. But UKI said the police report wouldnt make a difference to the 
outcome. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had reasonably considered the evidence available and taken advice from an expert in 
deciding that split liability was the best possible outcome. She didnt think the police report 
would add anything as the police didnt witness the incident. 
Mr I replied that he thought the police report would have supported his version of events. He 
thought the motorcyclist had given his insurer and the police different versions of events. He 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr I the same as someone else in his position. 
UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr I to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr I has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision. 
I can see that UKI had each drivers version of events to consider, and they conflicted. Both 
agreed that Mr I had changed lanes. The motorcyclist said Mr I had changed lanes twice and 
braked hard in front of him so that he couldnt avoid hitting the rear of his car. Mr I said the 
motorcyclist had swerved into the rear of his car, causing damage and personal injury. 
There were no independent witnesses or CCTV evidence available. The police attended 
after the incident and so didnt witness it. They collected the drivers statements. But these 
wouldnt prove what had happened. Mr I thought that the motorcyclist had given two differing 
versions of events to the police and the insurers. But this still wouldnt show what had 
happened in the incident.
So I cant say that the police report would have provided further evidence for UKI to 
consider. And I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to decide not to obtain it. 
UKI reviewed the claim twice. It took advice from a litigation expert who said that 50/50 split 
liability was the best possible outcome. I think its usual to settle a claim 50/50 when there 
are conflicting versions, no independent evidence, and where neither insurer will accept 
liability. Mr I was concerned that the motorcyclist had got away with it. But I dont agree as 
he will have a fault claim recorded against him as well. 
So I think UKI reasonably investigated the claim and decided liability as its entitled to do by 
the policy terms and conditions. And I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman