DRN-4247918
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund money he says he lost to a 
scam.
In bringing this complaint Mr B is represented by a third-party, but for ease of reading Ill 
refer to Mr B throughout the decision.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr B says he was cold called by a broker and offered an opportunity to invest 
into an unregulated property scheme (that Ill call W). Mr B made sent a payment of £5,050 
via a payment service provider for the purpose of investing £5,000 in an unregulated 
property scheme (that Ill call W).
Mr B received two interest payments from the investment. But after this the payments 
stopped, and Mr B thought he had been a victim of a scam. 
Mr B complained to Nationwide in October 2022. He argued that Nationwide had breached 
its duty of care by failing to question the payment and, had it done so, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead, and the loss would have been prevented. 
Nationwide said Mr B made the payments to a genuine company which later fell into difficulty 
rather than a scam. And it didnt agree to refund the money hed lost. 
Mr B didnt accept this outcome and referred the matter to our service. But our Investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the payment didnt stand out as being particularly 
unusual or concerning - when compared to Mr Bs normal account usage, so Nationwide 
would have had no cause to question it. And he added that even if Nationwide had 
intervened, he didnt think it would have prevented Mr B from making the payment based on 
the information available about W at the time. Mr B responded in detail disagreeing with the 
outcome reached. 
In summary, he said that Nationwide should have intervened when he instructed the 
payment. And that all high value payments should be flagged irrespective of the general 
account usage. He pointed out that the payment here was to a new payee and previous 
large payments were to an account in his own name and had been undertaken 12 months 
before the payment in dispute. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr B doesnt dispute that he made the payments from his Nationwide account. This means 
they were authorised by him. So, the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Mr B is responsible for the payments as 
well as any resulting losses. 
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Nationwide should, fairly 
and reasonably, have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions, as 
well as other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud.
It would clearly be an onerous requirement for Nationwide to question every payment and I 
consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other factors, 
to be taken into account when deciding whether a payment does, or does not, present 
heightened risk.
Having reviewed Mr Bs account statements, I can see that he made a number of high value 
payments a year before the payment in dispute - some of which were more than the 
payment in dispute (although, I accept that these payments went to an account in Mr Bs 
name held elsewhere). But the payment in dispute didnt reduce the balance of his account 
his account significantly and didnt form part of a concerning pattern of payments  both of 
which might be indicators of fraud. Overall, I dont find that Nationwide ought to have been 
concerned about the payment and, therefore, it follows that I dont find it made a mistake by 
failing to intervene. 
But, even if I were to accept that Nationwide ought to have spoken to Mr B about the 
payment, its difficult to see how any intervention would have prevented his loss. After all, it 
doesnt appear that any significant concerns were raised about W until sometime after the 
payment was made and it entered liquidation. Based on what appears to have been known 
at the time, I cant reasonably conclude that Nationwide would have recognised the risk that 
Mr B would lose his money and I dont think there was sufficient information in the public 
domain for Nationwide to be particularly concerned about W.
I note Mr B has mentioned a discrepancy in the recipient details. I take this to mean that the 
entry on Mr Bs statements doesnt refer to W. But it seems in this case that W used an       
e-money institute as a payment service provider to process the transaction. As the payment 
service provider used is legitimate and regulated, I dont find that Nationwide would have 
considered this to be unusual or concerning. 
Mr B has mentioned the lack of regulation of the investment and the high-risk nature of it and 
that Nationwide should have highlighted this to Mr B. But I dont think that Nationwide would 
be expected to go into the level of detail Mr B expects  particularly, as Nationwide wasnt 
providing any investment advice to Mr B. In any event, set against the weight of evidence at 
the time that W was operating legitimately would, in any case, be unlikely to have deterred 
Mr B from going ahead.
Finally, Ive thought about whether Nationwide had the opportunity to recover the funds for               
Mr B. But I think its unlikely any attempts to recover the money would have been successful 
given the time that has elapsed since the payment was made and when the complaint was 
raised with Nationwide  particularly, as W went into liquidation in the interim period. So, Im 
not persuaded that Nationwide did anything wrong when it didnt attempt to recover the 
funds.  
Im sorry that Mr B has lost out, but Ive decided that Nationwide isnt responsible for his 
loss.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman