DRN-3356874
The complaint
Mr N complains about a technical issue on his trading platform that prevented him from 
cancelling a limit order hed set.
The complaint is made to Computershare Investor Services Plc who are responsible for The 
Share Centre Limited. 
What happened
In early June 2021, Mr N set a limit order to sell 237 of his certificated shares at 3200p. The 
order was set to expire after 90 days. 
The price of Mr Ns shares continued to rise towards his limit. On 22 June, Mr N decided he 
wanted to cancel his order. He says he logged on to do this online, but an error repeatedly 
prevented him from doing so. So at 4:16pm, Mr N emailed Computershare to ask how to 
cancel it.
But the next morning, Mr Ns price was hit and his shares were sold at 8:01am. 
Computershare replied to his email at 9:13am and said they couldnt see he had any 
pending orders, and that they wouldnt be able to cancel orders that had already been dealt. 
Mr N explained hed tried to cancel the order, but the website wouldnt let him  he explained 
that the button he needed to use was greyed out and a red circle with a line through it was 
overlaid instead. He also explained hed been unable to call in about this as he was 
physically unable to use a telephone. Mr N asked for the sale to be reversed. 
Computershare looked into his concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong so the 
sale was a valid one. They said their IT team had looked into his order, but hadnt found 
there to have been any technical issues preventing him from amending it. They were also 
unable to replicate an error like it. They said if theyd been able to review the account at the 
time the error message had appeared, they may have been able to assist. 
Unhappy with this, Mr N asked for our help. One of our investigators looked into whatd 
happened but as there wasnt any evidence of a technical issue, she couldnt see 
Computershare had done anything wrong. 
Mr N remained unhappy  he said that despite following the right steps, he as the customer 
was being penalised because a large, wealthy company didnt address a customer issue and 
error with their website. He didnt think the IT teams failure to replicate the issue was 
relevant, the fact remained that hed faced an error. So as an agreement wasnt reached, the 
case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to make clear that my findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is 
more likely than not  based on the evidence that has been provided by the parties. In 
simple terms, to uphold this complaint there would have to be persuasive evidence that 
made it more likely than not that Computershare had done something wrong. But I have not 
seen any such persuasive evidence in this case. Ill explain why.
I have reviewed Mr Ns account activity from 22 June 2021 and can see there were at least 
three occasions where he signed in  at 12:16pm, 3:41pm and 4:12pm. Each time he viewed 
his account summary and his open orders. And during the two latter log-ons, he navigated to 
a page to edit an open order. Shortly after this final log-on, Mr N emailed Computershare 
asking them how to cancel an order.
Given this history, I dont doubt Mr N was thinking about cancelling his order  indeed, I see 
the share price continued to rise in the subsequent weeks so Mr N may have wished to hold 
on for a little longer. Despite this, I havent seen persuasive evidence to support his 
assertion he encountered an issue  by this I mean:
he made no reference to any system error when he first contacted the business  I 
find it unusual that he didnt immediately reference the issue he was having or 
mention the usual button was greyed out, especially given the closing price that day 
was very close to his limit meaning, there was a real risk of execution after the open
he has not shared any evidence of what he saw  such as a screenshot of the red 
circle  with us or Computershare to show the error he faced and
Computershares IT team have not found there to have been any issue with the 
platform at the time.
Even if I had seen some evidence that suggested there was a system problem, this does not 
mean that Computershare necessarily did something wrong and are responsible for any 
losses or missed opportunity for additional profit Mr N may have suffered. I say that because 
it isnt reasonable to expect a firm to provide guaranteed, uninterrupted access to all features 
of their platform at all times  such access can be interrupted by various things which are not 
within their reasonable control. Though I appreciate Mr N has said he wasnt able to call 
Computershare to flag the issues he was having, that is not something I can hold 
Computershare responsible for. Instead, I think what is important is that an alternative and 
more urgent option for alerting them to a possible issue was available. 
From everything Ive seen, I dont find there is persuasive evidence to show Mr N was 
unable to cancel his order because of a technical issue with Computershare, so I dont agree 
it would be fair or reasonable to ask them to reinstate the shares as asked.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 
21 July 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman