DRN-3698472
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited didnt do all it could have done when a 
claim against a car he owned previously was made against his motor policy, when he had 
omitted accidentally in telling Tesco he had already sold his car some months previously. 
What happened
Tesco wrote to Mr S on 11 May 2020 asking him to make contact concerning an unreported 
claim. Mr S contacted Tesco that same day and explained he had sold his car on 20 January 
2020 to a garage via an online selling platform. This garage then repaired the car and sold it 
on again to someone else, who presumably was involved in this accident. 
Mr S thought he had told Tesco in January 2020 that the car was sold and that his policy 
should be cancelled. He also said just a week previously in May 2020, Tesco had written to 
Mr S saying his policy was going to lapse and Mr S confirmed the policy should be 
cancelled. Further Mr S said the DVLA records show he was no longer the keeper from 20 
January 2020. 
Tesco said the car now had two insurers noted against it, one being Tesco. It also said it had 
contacted the insurer who was putting in the claim against Mr S policy to explain it should be 
in contact with the other insurer on the car, not it. 
Tesco also explained until the insurer who was making the claim confirmed it was logged 
with the other insurer for the car, the claim against Mr S would remain active. And once it 
received that confirmation it would remove the claim from Mr S insurance record. 
Mr S then told Tesco on 12 May 2020 that he had written to it when he sold the car in 
January 2020. He said he tried to complete it online, but it wouldnt go through and he 
couldnt get through on the phone. 
In June 2020 Tesco acknowledged he had received the proof required that Mr S had sold his 
car in January 2020 and that future issues concerning this claim should be sent to the other 
insurer.
However then in Tescos file by 9 September 2020 it had settlement of the claim and in 
December 2020 it said it had acceptable proof Mr S had sold the car and it was disputing 
liability as Mr S didnt own the car.
In November 2020 Mr S complained to Tesco because these issues with his insurance 
record hadnt been resolved and his premium from his subsequent insurer showed his 
premium was increased because of it. He wanted Tesco to remove this claim from the 
varying data bases, so it didnt show up on his insurance record. Tesco however in its final 
response letter said it hadnt received the required proof that Mr S had sold his car hence his 
insurance record being affected. 
Initially the investigator upheld this complaint against the wrong Tesco entity. And because 
he felt Mr S should have done more, he said it should pay him £150 compensation. 
I then realised this had been set up against the wrong Tesco entity and directed it should be 
set up against the right Tesco entity.
So, it was then set up against the right Tesco entity with a different investigator being 
involved. Mr S had accepted he didnt do all he should have done to inform Tesco when his 
car was sold. But he complained that when Tesco had the information that he had sold the 
car, it then didnt do enough to get this claim off his insurance record, so it had cost him due 
to higher premiums from his subsequent insurer.  
The investigator was of the view that Tesco could have done more to keep Mr S informed 
and indeed remove this claim from his insurance record. And it should provide a letter to Mr 
S explaining the claim ought to have been removed so his subsequent insurer can refund 
any overpayment. If that insurer wont do this then Tesco should do so instead. And she felt 
Tesco should pay Mr S £200 compensation. 
Mr S agreed but Tesco didnt, so Mr S claim has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint, Ill now explain why.
First, I do want to apologise to Mr S for his complaint taking so long within our service and 
initially set up against the wrong Tesco entity. It has made the matter more protracted for 
him unnecessarily, for which I am very sorry. 
Its clear to me that Tesco knew once it had contacted Mr S in May 2020, that he didnt own 
the car. The DVLA records would have shown that too. It received the actual proof of sale in 
June 2020 at the latest from Mr S, yet it said in final response letter in November 2020 it 
didnt have any proof and it corrected that in December 2020. 
So regardless or not as to whether the insurer making the claim against Mr S policy with 
Tesco had sorted out who owned the car and had made the claim against them, it could 
never have been a claim against Mr S. Therefore, obviously Mr S should have cancelled his 
policy when he sold his car, but I understand he was dealing with a family bereavement at 
the time too. Nonetheless once this other insurer had made the claim against Mr S it was 
clear even from just DVLA records if nothing else that Mr S no longer owned this car. 
So, its largely irrelevant in my view that Mr S delayed in telling Tesco he had sold his car or 
that his omission wasnt in line with the policy conditions as Tesco has detailed in not 
accepting the investigators view. This complaint concerns Tescos action once it was fully 
aware from June 2020 onwards that the other insurers claim couldnt be against Mr S policy 
since he hadnt owned the car at the time of the accident. 
Therefore, there was no reason in my view for Tesco to not deal with this matter promptly 
and professionally at the time, instead of putting him on the database saying he had been 
involved in an accident with this car which he sold months before the alleged accident. 
Consequently, I dont consider this was reasonable. It meant time, trouble, and distress for 
Mr S in constantly having to explain to Tesco it had the necessary evidence, with premiums 
for himself and his partner were increased by their subsequent motor insurers.
 So, if it hasnt done so I consider Tesco should write a letter for Mr S to show his then 
insurers and any subsequent ones that he was not involved in this accident. Those insurers 
should then refund Mr S and his partner. If they dont for whatever reason, Tesco should so 
instead with interest from the date any increased premiums were paid to the date of its 
refund.  It should also pay Mr S compensation in the sum of £200 for the distress it caused 
him in this matter. Thats in line with other awards Ive made in similar circumstances.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Tesco Underwriting Limited to do the following:
Provide a letter to Mr S explaining when the claim against him should have been 
removed from the relevant databases and Mr S insurance record. That should then 
enable Mr S subsequent insurers to refund any overpayment of premium.
If for whatever reason Mr S subsequent insurers dont provide any refund, then 
Tesco should do so instead. Interest of 8% simple per year should from the date any 
such overpayment was paid by Mr S to the date of its refund. If income tax is to be 
deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr S for 
HMRC purposes. 
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman