DRN-2309704
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
In particular Im aware that MotoNovo provided a very detailed response to the investigators 
second view on this matter. Id like to reassure them that when coming to my decision I read 
that document in full and whilst, for brevity and focus, I may not refer to all of the points they 
raised, I did consider them. 
Miss M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss M. The car here was about 
11 years old and had already completed about 59,500 miles. Whilst we could expect some 
wear and tear on a car of that age and mileage I dont think a reasonable person would think 
it to be of satisfactory quality if it was constantly veering to one side.
Whilst I understand there was an issue with the Engine Management Light (EML) I am 
focussing my comments on the juddering and tendency for the vehicle to veer or pull to one 
side. Im doing that because it appears the EML issue was resolved satisfactorily in 2019.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Here I can see a problem with the car pulling was identified by a garage in July 2019 
shortly after Miss M had taken receipt of the car. They noted that a rear suspension spring 
was broken. Given the fact that this issue was identified only a few days after Miss M had 
taken receipt of the car, I think its likely this problem was present from the beginning.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair 
the car. I think MotoNovo had that opportunity in July 2019 when the rear suspension spring 
was replaced.
But this didnt resolve the problem for Miss M and the independent inspector who looked at 
the car in September 2019 noted that the car was still pulling and that there was a slight 
knocking from the suspension. So, Im persuaded that the fault Miss M complained of in July 
2019 hadnt been resolved satisfactorily by replacing the rear suspension spring.
A further repair was carried out in October 2019. The third-party garage appointed by the 
dealership explained that they replaced the front shock absorber and the track rod ends. 
They clarified that to fit the shock absorber it was necessary to remove and refit the front 
(not the rear) suspension spring and they also explained that they had completed tracking on 
the car,
I dont think that repair resolved matters for Miss M either. I say that because a franchised 
dealership looked at the car in November 2019 and identified further problems. They noted 
that a brake calliper was seized; both wishbone bushes had excessive play in them and that 
the front suspension spring that had been fitted by the third-party garage, had not been fitted 
correctly.
So, Im persuaded that the fault Miss M complained of very shortly after she took receipt of 
the car had still not been satisfactorily fixed at this point. The replacement of the rear 
suspension spring hadnt completely resolved the problem and it seems very likely that the 
repair completed in October 2019 wasnt completed correctly. I say that because the 
manufacturing franchise said the front spring was fitted incorrectly and I cant see that Miss 
M had any other work completed on the car between its repair in October 2019 and the 
franchised dealerships inspection the following month, and a few hundred miles later.
The franchised dealership also noted that there was excessive wear in both wishbone 
bushes. Miss M has provided evidence from a few reliable and authoritative sources that it 
would not be possible to adjust the tracking on the car if these bushes were worn. The 
second independent inspector who looked at the car in late November 2019 explained that 
the current issues (the brake seizure and pulling) may well be associated with wheel 
alignment. It would therefore seem a reasonable assumption that the tracking couldnt be 
completed accurately by the third-party repairer because at that time (only 760 miles before 
the franchised dealerships report) the wishbone bushes were already excessively worn and 
should have been repaired. 
So, I think its clear that there was a fault with the suspension on this car when it was 
supplied and that subsequent repairs were unsuccessful. 
When a repair fails the relevant legislation suggests the business should consider allowing 
the consumer to reject the car.But here I am not persuaded that would be the fairest course of action. It would seem 
disproportionate as it appears the repairs have now been satisfactorily completed.   
Putting things right
MotoNovo should refund any repair costs Miss M has incurred getting the suspension fixed. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I would agree that this would include the wishbone repair, any 
costs related to the refitting of the front suspension spring and any costs associated with 
rectifying the seized brakes or the cars tracking. Most of those appear to be covered under 
the invoice for £600 that Miss M paid on 3 March 2020. MotoNovo should add interest to that 
refund as Miss M has been deprived of that money.
Miss M has explained that she didnt use the car between November 2019 and March 2020. 
I think that was reasonable given the fact the second independent inspector confirmed the 
car wouldnt pass an MOT in the condition it was in. So, Im asking MotoNovo to refund any 
finance instalments paid by Miss M in those months. Theyll need to add interest to that 
refund as Miss M has been deprived of that money.
I would also agree with the investigator that Miss M has been inconvenienced here. Shes 
had to take the car back for repairs on several occasions and I think MotoNovo could have 
resolved this matter earlier for her and without the need to escalate it to this service. In the 
circumstances I think MotoNovo should pay her £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
refund any repair costs Miss M has incurred getting the suspension fixed and add 8% 
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund any finance instalments Miss M paid between, and including, November 2019 
and March 2020 in respect of the lack of use Miss M had from the car. Add 8% 
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
pay Miss M £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ms credit file regarding 
these issues.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman