DRN-3862914
The complaint
Mr A complains that Complete Cover Group Ltd (CCG) didnt properly complete his request 
for a change of vehicle on his policy leaving him uninsured.
What happened
Mr A purchased his motor insurance policy through CCG. Part way through his policy he 
changed his car and so contacted CCG to let them know.  They updated the information on 
their system and took a payment from Mr A for the change. They updated his monthly 
payment agreement and emailed the underwriter of Mr As policy so they too could update 
the details they held. However, when emailing the underwriter, the incorrect email address 
was used and so the cover wasnt updated. 
Two months later Mr A received a letter from the motor insurance database (MID) which 
alerted him to the problem. He called CCG who quickly identified the issue and spoke to the 
underwriter backdating the cover to when the change occurred. 
Mr A didnt think this was enough to put things right and so brought his complaint to us. He 
felt that he deserved to be compensated for the error as it could have had serious 
consequences if he had been involved in an accident while uninsured or had been stopped 
by the police as he could have had his car taken from him. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint, in summary she said, while we could only look at what had happened and not 
what might have happened, she recognised there had been an amount of inconvenience 
caused to Mr A and so asked CCG to pay Mr A £50 in recognition of this. 
CCG accepted the investigators findings. Mr A did not  he said he didnt think £50 was 
enough to reflect the financial position he would have found himself in if anything had gone 
wrong during those two months.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
There is no dispute that CCG made a mistake and didnt let the underwriter know Mr As car 
had changed. But as soon as it was aware of the problem it rectified it and backdated the 
cover to when the change actually occurred. This means that there is now no period of un-
insurance and if there were any retrospective claims made Mr A would be covered under the 
policy as he should have been.
I completely understand Mr As point of view that he could have been in a far worse position 
if something had happened. But I think I should reassure Mr A thats not the case, as had 
something happened before CCG had rectified things, they would have made sure that he 
was indemnified under the policy as it was their error. So, Mr A was never in danger of being 
left in a worse financial position than he is now.
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly about this but my role here is to assess the compensation 
due to him based on what actually happened and not on what ifs. I accept that getting the 
letter from the MID as he did would have been worrying for Mr A, and it also put him to 
inconvenience to have to call CCG to sort things out. But CCG acted quickly as soon as they 
were made aware of the issue and apologised to Mr A and put him straight back into the 
position he would have been in if the error hadnt occurred. 
Based on the above Im satisfied that £50 compensation along with the apology they have 
already given to Mr A is in line with what Id expect in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
CCG should now pay Mr A £50 for the inconvenience and upset caused to him if they 
havent done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and now 
require Complete Cover Group Ltd to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting 
things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman