DRN-4081633
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) closed his credit 
card account without explanation.
What happened
Mr S says he received a letter from Barclays in early November 2022, saying it was closing 
his credit card account. Mr S says on questioning this with Barclays it initially told him it had 
no knowledge of his account being closed. Mr S says he was then told by Barclays it had 
made a mistake and the account was to be closed after all. 
Mr S says Barclays have given no reason why his credit card account was being closed and 
this has affected his credit score and created worry and upset. Mr S wants Barclays to 
explain to him why his account has been closed. Mr S says Barclays offered him £50 by way 
of compensation initially, then increased it to £100,but this has since been withdrawn. 
Barclays says it has apologised to Mr S as it made a mistake informing him it had no record 
of the letter it sent telling him his credit card account was to be closed. Barclays says it did 
clarify this with Mr S in a telephone call and subsequent letter but couldnt provide the 
reason why it had decided to close his credit card account. Barclays says for the confusion it 
caused it has offered Mr S £100 by way of apology. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Barclays, under its terms and conditions, are able to close Mr Ss credit 
card account without providing a reason why. The investigator felt Barclays had given 
sufficient notice of the account closure. 
The investigator didnt feel Barclays could be held responsible for any impact this may have 
had on Mr Ss credit score. 
The investigator says Barclays have apologised to Mr S for the confusion it created over 
whether or not the credit card account was to be closed and offered £100 by way of apology 
and this is still available to Mr S if he so wishes. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr S to learn his credit card account was 
to be closed and no explanation given by Barclays why that was. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays acted unfairly when it closed Mr Ss 
credit card account without a full explanation why. 
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties here so I wont repeat 
everything thats been said before other than to say Mr Ss complaint centres around the fact 
Barclays have closed his credit card account without providing a full explanation why. 
I understand the points Mr S makes and while not trying to minimise the frustration and 
upset this would have undoubtedly caused him here, the fact is under Barclays terms and 
conditions Section 19, it can close an account without reason provided two months written 
notice is given. 
I have seen a copy of the letter Barclays wrote dated 1 November 2022 advising Mr Ss 
credit card account will close on 4 January 2023. 
So, while Mr S may not agree Barclays have acted in line with its terms and conditions and 
its not my role to tell Barclays it must now provide him with a reason for the credit card 
account closure. 
As far as Mr Ss credit score being affected by this, Im not fully persuaded this was solely 
due to the closure of the credit card account as various other factors could be at play here, 
but in any event theres no evidence to suggest this has had any impact on Mr Ss ability to 
obtain credit elsewhere. In any event Barclays were entitled as explained earlier, to close Mr 
Ss credit card account here.
Barclays have accepted it was at fault for telling Mr S initially it had no record of the credit 
card account closure and that would have only added to the frustration for Mr S  that said it 
has apologised for that and offered Mr S £100 by way of apology, which I am satisfied is fair 
in the circumstances. 
I can see Mr S is of the opinion this compensation may have been withdrawn, but thats not 
the case, and to make matters easier for him here, if he supplies the investigator with his 
bank account details this service will liaise with Barclays to arrange for this to be paid directly 
 if of course Mr S wishes to now accept Barclays offer. 
Mr S has also raised the issue that Barclays havent recently responded to him, but we 
wouldnt ordinarily expect Barclays to make further direct contact with him while the 
investigation and final decision was ongoing. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman