DRN-1051526
Complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
him.                           
Background
This complaint is about 34 high-cost short term credit instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr 
B between February 2015 and September 2017. Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint 
and thought that he shouldnt have been provided with loans 6 to 34. Sunny disagreed. So 
the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr B was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 6. I say this because by this stage Mr B had exhibited a clear borrowing pattern of taking out 
further loans not too long after repaying previous ones. And some of them were even 
provided when others were outstanding or had been paid on that day. In my view, Mr B was 
displaying a pattern consistent with someone who may have been in financial difficulty rather 
than borrowing to cover a short term need.
Sunny continued lending to Mr B even when this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr B had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 6 to 29 and loan 31;
 
remove all interest and charges applied to loan 30 and 32 to 34 from the outset. The 
payments Mr B has made should then be deducted from the new starting balances. 
Sunny needs to ensure that Mr B pays no more than the amount he was initially lent 
on these loans. If the payments Mr B made are enough to have cleared what he what 
lent any extra should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr B;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, charges and 
overpayments (if there were any) from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
 
if, after all adjustments have been made, any outstanding balances remain Sunny 
can deduct these from what it now needs to pay Mr B;
 
the number of loans provided means any information recorded about loans 6 to 34 is 
adverse. So all reference to these loans should be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman