DRN-2970533
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) allowed him to spend over 
£10,000 on gambling transactions when he had a gambling freeze applied to his account.
What happened
Mr B has a number of accounts with Halifax including a basic account.
Mr B applied a gambling freeze to his basic account in July 2020. Hes told us that this 
helped him manage his gambling problem.
In September 2020 Mr B reported one of his cards as lost and stolen  he says it was taken 
by an ATM. Mr B says he ordered a new card over the phone. Halifax says he did so online.
In November 2020 Mr B called Halifax to get a transfer he wanted to make unblocked as it 
wouldnt go through. Mr B explained to Halifax that he was transferring money back to his 
business account. Having done so, Halifax allowed the payment to go through. Mr B 
explained whilst he was on the call that hed de-registered and re-registered his banking app 
because he had a gambling problem and de-registering the app meant he didnt have 
access to the account. He then complained that hed recently been able to deposit money on 
gambling sites, despite the fact that he had a gambling freeze on his card. The agent  who 
was in the fraud department  transferred Mr B to Halifaxs customer services department 
and they ultimately raised a complaint for him.
Halifax investigated Mr Bs complaint and said that the reason why his card no longer had a 
gambling freeze on it was because hed reported it as lost and stolen and the freeze wasnt 
transferred over to his replacement card in line with its terms and conditions. Mr B was 
unhappy and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and said that they didnt think Halifax 
had shown enough support or attention towards Mr B and his gambling problem. But as Mr B 
was spending his own money rather than money from a credit card, our investigator 
recommended that Halifax pay him an additional £200 in compensation. Mr B didnt agree 
with our investigators conclusions saying that it doesnt make sense that Halifax can re-
apply the freeze if its sending out a replacement card except when a card has been reported 
lost or stolen. He asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint, so thats what Ive 
done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax offers its customers the option of applying a gambling freeze to their cards if they 
want to do so  such a freeze can help customers with a gambling problem manage their 
gambling problem. This is an option that many banks now offer  the way these freezes / 
blocks work vary from bank to bank. Halifaxs gambling freeze is applied to a specific card 
rather than an account. 
In this case, Mr B had two active cards  he applied the gambling freeze to one of them in 
July 2020 but not the other. The gambling freeze is reapplied automatically to any 
replacement cards that Halifax sends but not when a card has been reported lost or stolen. 
The terms and conditions that applied to Mr Bs account at the time explained this, and that it 
was up to the customer to ask for a gambling freeze to be applied to a card sent out to 
replace a card that has been reported lost or stolen. Halifax has told us that Mr B reported 
one of his cards as lost and stolen in September 2020 and a replacement card was sent out 
to him. That replacement card didnt have a gambling freeze applied to it for the reasons Ive 
just given  it would have done so had the card been replacing one that had expired.
The gambling transactions Mr B is complaining about didnt occur until November 2020. In 
the meantime, I can see that Mr B entered into a large number of gambling transactions in 
August and September 2020. He was able to do so because hed only frozen one of his 
cards  hes told us that the freeze he placed on the card that he ultimately reported as lost 
and stolen worked. He doesnt appear to have gambled in October 2020, but his account 
was also overdrawn at the time which isnt from what Ive seen normal for Mr B. He then 
started gambling again at the end of November 2020. In the circumstances, it doesnt look 
like the gambling freeze that Mr B asked Halifax to apply to one of his cards was stopping 
him from gambling as he gambled in August and September 2020 when the freeze was on. 
Thats important.
Our investigator thought that Halifax didnt show enough support or attention towards Mr B 
and his gambling problem. I agree. I can also understand why Mr B feels it makes no sense 
that a gambling freeze will be automatically applied to a replacement card unless that card 
has been replaced because its been reported as lost or stolen. In this case, Im satisfied that 
Mr B didnt call Halifax to order his replacement card  had he done so that would have 
given the agent an opportunity to talk about the gambling freeze and check whether it should 
be applied to the replacement card. But the letter sending the card out could have made this 
clear too. I agree too that because of the volume of previous gambling transactions, Halifax 
might not have picked up the gambling that Mr B has complained about in November 2020. 
But I do think theres enough to say that Halifax didnt act fairly or reasonably in this case.Putting things right
Mr B has gambled and lost a lot of money, and its clear that this has caused him 
considerable distress. He had clearly taken some steps to manage his gambling problem, 
including applying a gambling freeze to one of his cards. Halifax has played a part in whats 
happened, and I agree with our investigator that for the part Halifax has played and for the 
distress it has caused as a result, compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr B £200 in compensation in 
full and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman