DRN-2985675
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs F payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The PPI was presented as optional in the application form. But Mr and Mrs F have said they 
were pressurised into taking the PPI.
The problem I have, in making a decision on this point, is that I couldnt know the exact 
words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Nationwide did something wrong 
unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F as being suited to their individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It just had to 
give Mr and Mrs F enough information so they could decide themselves whether it was 
suitable for their needs, and worth the cost  or whether they wanted to have no PPI or to 
shop elsewhere (assuming they were given a proper choice, which Ive discussed above).  
But even if Nationwide had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been a 
suitable one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties; and so, even though PPI could be of questionable value 
with some types of borrowing, it was often sensible to take it to cover a mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs F have questioned whether they would have been able to claim, given the 
redundancy and sickness cover theyd have had from their employer. But this wouldnt have 
stopped them claiming  the PPI payments would have been in addition to what the 
employer paid.  So the PPI could have put off the time when they would need to fall back on 
any savings, or other means they may have had, for paying the mortgage and other living 
costs. This all could have put Mr and Mrs F in a more secure position long term. And Ive not 
been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide did explain the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether Mr and Mrs F took the PPI. I say this for the same reason that a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one. So, I dont think it likely that fuller 
information would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs F would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
So Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman