DRN-2786096
The complaint
Mr C says The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint because:
I think RBS made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I 
say this because he did tick the box on the credit card application form to show that he 
wanted the cover.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. That means it didnt have to make enquiries about any other means he had to 
cover his credit card repayments.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I have to consider whether better information was likely to have 
changed Mr Cs decision to buy the policy.
Mr C has told me he was self-employed when the policy was sold. But having reviewed 
the policy terms, Im not persuaded it wouldve been any more difficult for him to make 
a successful unemployment claim than it wouldve been for someone who was 
employed. So even if hed had better information about the policys unemployment 
terms, I dont think this wouldve stopped him buying the policy.
In addition, the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont 
think better information about the cost and benefit wouldve stopped him buying it.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman