DRN-3014899
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold an Advance Account (AA) in July 2010 by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
Mr M had used a fee free account with an overdraft for several years before he took out the 
AA, so he knew these were available. He had also taken out loans before he had the AA. He 
could have closed the AA at any time after the initial 12-month period but didnt do so for 
many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr M knew the AA was optional and he chose to take 
it out.
Mr M says that HSBC advised him to take out the AA and so it should have checked that it 
was suitable for him. HSBC says the AA was sold on a non-advised basis. Its impossible for 
me to know what happened in the discussion between the parties at the time. But even if 
advice was given and a recommendation made, in my view, I couldnt say the AA was 
unsuitable for Mr M.
I say this because Mr M could have and did use many of the benefits. Ive seen evidence 
that he travelled and so was covered by the travel insurance from the AA. He benefitted from 
the fee free cash withdrawals on multiple occasions. He called out the car breakdown 
service. And he used the interest free overdraft. 
At the time of sale, Mr M had a regular income, so the fees were affordable to him. And he 
took out a loan which he would have made a substantial saving on due to the AA, if hed 
allowed it to run for three years rather than repaying it after two.
For the same reasons as Ive given above, Mr M seems to have been aware of many of the 
benefits of the AA because he used them. And he received copious correspondence about 
the terms, conditions, costs and benefits over the years. So, I think its more likely than not 
that he received enough information about the AA to make an informed decision when he 
took it out. And once he had the AA, it was for him decide if he wished to keep it or return to 
a fee free account.
So, I think its more likely than not that HSBC didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the AA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman