DRN-2728974
The complaint
Mr L complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold him a term assurance plan with critical
illness cover, as he believed he would be able to extend the duration of his cover when it
came to the end of the 25-year term.
What happened
In March 2001, Mr L took out a Lifestyle Plan with a predecessor business of Zurich. This
was to make sure his mortgage would be paid off if he died or was diagnosed with a critical
illness. His plan provided him with £26,800 of cover for a monthly premium of £26.69. It had
a term of 25 years which was to match his mortgage. The sum assured later increased to
£31,600.
In 2019, Mr L complained that he felt the plan had been mis-sold to him. This is because he
thought it was convertible. He said he wouldve taken out a decreasing plan if hed known
this, as he was paying extra in the belief that it had a convertible option.
Zurich said that, at the time of taking out this cover, Mr L was arranging a repayment 
mortgage. It said that although it was satisfied that taking out the cover was prudent in Mr Ls
circumstances, it felt that a decreasing term assurance plan wouldve been more appropriate
to match his repayment mortgage. It said the cost of this wouldve been £17.79 a month. It
compared this with what Mr L had actually paid for his plan and offered to refund him the
difference with interest. In accepting this offer, it said that Mr Ls plan would end. But he may
be able to claim for the future cost of replacement cover if his current health prevented him
from getting a suitable plan; or if the replacement cover would cost more than £17.79 a
month for the remaining term and sum assured he wouldve had if he had taken out a
decreasing term plan in 2001.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought Zurichs offer was fair. She
said she agreed that a decreasing term assurance plan wouldve been more suitable for
Mr L than the level term plan. She felt the documents were clear that Mr Ls plan was for 25
years, rather than whole-of-life and didnt include a renewal option.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators findings. He said the folder he received his plan
documents in said it was convertible. He felt that hed been mis-led. Had he known it wasnt
convertible then he wouldve stopped paying the premiums for it when he paid off his
mortgage. Mr L said he didnt think the compensation offered was much in real terms and, if
he is not getting the convertible life plan he thought he was paying for, then he feels he
deserves a pre-paid funeral plan as compensation.
Mr L questioned why he wouldve carried on paying his premiums after his mortgage ended
if he didnt think the plan gave him cover for life. He said hed requested a convertible plan
and trusted that this is what hed been given. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. In summary, I thought it 
should be upheld. 
I said I appreciated Mr Ls reasons for believing his plan had a convertible option. This
wouldve meant that he had the option to convert the plan into a different type of policy; such
as a savings endowment or a whole-of-life plan.
 
I looked through Mr Ls plan information and the letter he was sent from the adviser, which 
detailed the recommendations made and the reasons for this. Mr Ls plan provisions listed 
the additional plan benefits that it did and didnt include; and his particular plan didnt include: 
the renewal option; the permanent total disability benefit; additional critical illness benefit; 
indexation benefit; or waiver of contribution benefit. The renewable option would have 
allowed Mr L to renew his plan for a further term. This also set out that the term of the plan 
was 25 years. This term is also shown on the plan schedule and detailed in the advisers 
letter.
So I said while I appreciated that Mr L had maintained his premiums for this plan after his 
mortgage was paid off, believing that it could provide him with cover for life, that wasnt an 
option included in his plan. And I thought this was sufficiently set out within the plan 
documentation.
However, Zurich acknowledged that a decreasing plan wouldve been a more appropriate 
recommendation for Mr L, when his objective for this plan was to provide protection for his 
repayment mortgage. This is because the amount of cover provided by a decreasing plan 
would gradually go down over the term in line with the outstanding capital owed on the 
repayment mortgage. And it made an offer to refund the difference between the premiums 
Mr L paid towards his level term plan, and what he wouldve paid for a decreasing term plan.
I said that if Mr L decided to accept this offer, this would mean that his plan would end and 
would no longer provide him with life cover. Zurich said that Mr L may be able to claim for 
the future costs of replacement life cover if his age or health prevented him from getting 
suitable protection, or if the cost was more than the figures it calculated for the position Mr L 
would now be in if hed taken out decreasing term cover in 2001.
Mr L told us of his intentions going forward for life cover, as the plan would end in five years, 
should he continue with it and decide not to accept Zurichs offer. And he said what he really 
needed was a policy for life, so he felt the only option would be to take insurance to cover 
funeral costs or compensation to pay for this. This indicated to me that a decreasing plan 
over the remaining term was unlikely to give Mr L the cover he wanted.
Because of this, I said I thought that, in the main, the offer Zurich made Mr L represented a 
fair settlement for his complaint, as it took into account that the premiums for his plan were 
more expensive than they wouldve been if hed taken out a decreasing term plan in 2001. 
Mr L would then be able to use this refunded amount as he wished. However, I said that the interest Zurich proposed to add had been calculated using the Bank 
of England Base Rate plus 1%, and this wasnt in line with the rate I would recommend in 
the circumstances. So I said Zurich should recalculate the refund of the difference in 
premiums for Mr L and add interest to that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple. I said this 
was because Mr L didnt have access to the additional amount of monthly premium he was
paying for his unsuitable level term plan. I said this interest should be added from the date 
each premium was paid, to the date of settlement.
The responses
Zurich didnt agree that the interest rate of 8% was appropriate. It said that, had the 
additional amount been put into a savings account, then it wasnt unreasonable to achieve a 
rate of 1% above base rate based on the amount Mr L would be paying in. It said the interest 
rate of 8% appeared disproportionate against what Mr L could have achieved. 
Mr L responded to say that he had no further information to add, other than to emphasise 
that he wasnt sold the product hed asked for and is now in a state of high anxiety about his 
life cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr Ls concerns as well as his belief that he wasnt sold the product he 
wanted. And I do agree that this particular plan didnt fully match his circumstances at the 
time it was sold, as it didnt take into account that the capital of the mortgage it would be 
protecting would go down over the term. 
I understand that Mr Ls circumstances have changed over the term of this plan, and that he 
believed he would be able to convert it into a plan that gave him the cover he now wants. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision, I think the information about his plan from the 
time was clear that it didnt include the renewable option and that it would end after a set 
term. 
Ive also considered Zurichs reasons for believing that an interest rate of Bank of England 
Base Rate plus 1% would be more appropriate to apply to the refund it has offered. But I 
dont agree that this would be the case in the circumstances here. The interest rate of 8% 
simple is to reflect that Mr L didnt have access to the money, and it doesnt just represent a 
lost opportunity to invest or save that additional money. It could also be that Mr L may have 
chosen to use that money differently within his everyday spending. 
Overall, my decision remains that I think Zurich should calculate the difference in the 
premiums Mr L paid towards his level term plan, with what he wouldve paid towards a 
decreasing term plan and add interest on the resulting amount at an annual rate of 8% 
simple. 
As I said in my provisional decision, should Mr L decide to accept this offer, then Zurich has 
said that his plan would end and it would no longer provide him with life cover. However, as 
it didnt accept the interest rate I proposed, Zurich hasnt provided an up-to-date calculation 
for Mr L to reach an informed decision about whether to accept the offer and consider his 
options for any appropriate replacement cover he may wish to take out. Therefore, my decision is that Zurich should provide Mr L with these figures. It is then for 
Mr L to decide whether he wishes to accept this remedy in the knowledge that his life cover 
would then end and he can look into any alternative options, or whether he wishes to reject 
the offer and continue with his plan with Zurich. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd should provide Mr L with 
the up-dated calculations based upon a refund of the difference in premiums Mr L has paid 
over the duration of his term assurance plan with that of an equivalent decreasing term plan 
with interest added to the resulting amount at an annual rate of 8% simple.
This is to allow Mr L to be in an informed position to decide whether to accept that remedy or 
continue with his plan until the end of its term. 
Once Zurich has provided Mr L with these up-dated calculations, if Mr L chooses to accept 
the premium refund plus interest (with the existing plan ending), Zurich is required to pay this 
premium refund plus 8% simple interest amount to Mr L.
If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman