DRN-3825681
The complaint
Mr S has complained HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund money he lost as the result of a 
scam.
Mr S is represented in his complaint by his son.
What happened
Over a prolonged period from 2010 to 2019, Mr S was withdrawing cash from his HSBC 
account. He was giving most of this money to someone he knew. Hed known this person 
(who Ill call G) for many years. Mr S had known Gs brother in the 1970s. Hed invested in 
his businesses in the hope of financial gain. According to Mr Ss son, this never materialised.
This meant when G came back into Mr Ss life, he was able to convince Mr S that financial 
payments would help G to release money Mr S was owed by his brother. G provided Mr S 
with many reasons why money was delayed or unable to be released until he made further 
payments. Over a ten year-period Mr S gave G more than £59,000 in cash from his HSBC 
account. He also paid in £3,500 to Gs own HSBC account from December 2018 until July 
2019.
Mr Ss son was increasingly worried about his parents failing health. He paid more attention 
to how his father was managing the family money and became concerned about certain 
aspects in 2019. He also registered a power of attorney for his father. This was lodged with 
HSBC. Mr S is now in his nineties and suffering from memory loss. Mr Ss son told HSBC his 
father had been the subject of a long-term convincing scam.
HSBC told Mr S they considered this was a civil matter. Mr S knew G well and that along 
with the payments being generally cash-based meant HSBC didnt consider Mr S to have 
been the victim of a scam. They also believed if they had questioned Mr S about what was 
happening, he would have insisted he was making business investments. This being the 
story G ensured Mr S was repeatedly told, and believed, throughout this time period.
Mr Ss son brought his fathers complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator 
reviewed the evidence. This included contacting the local police whod also investigated 
Mr Ss circumstances. She felt overall that the evidence was unclear whether Mr S was 
being scammed or not. But in any case, as Mr S remained convinced throughout that G was 
genuine, he was more than likely to have rebuffed any attempts by HSBC to assist.
Still unhappy, Mr Ss son has asked an ombudsman to consider his fathers complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly Id like to thank Mr Ss son for his detailed submissions about what he believes 
happened on this and his fathers other complaints. His 25-page letter detailing the hold he 
believed G had over his father provides powerful testimony. Hes also given us a forensic 
account of the monies Mr S withdrew and gave to G over the years from other accounts as 
well as his HSBC account. This has been useful in helping our investigations. 
Theres no dispute that Mr S used his debit card to withdraw cash over many years and gave 
away a large proportion of this to G. His son believes Mr S regularly cleared out his account 
from income he and his wife received from different sources.  
Existing legislation  the Payment Services Regulations  covers automated payments 
(including card transactions). Although this doesnt specifically cover cash and cheque 
payments, we still expect a financial institution to show a customer made or authorised 
these.
From the evidence Mr Ss son has provided, I can see that the money he believes his father 
was scammed out of was predominantly cash-based. These were either withdrawals from a 
cash machine which were then given to G, or cash paid into Gs HSBC account by Mr S.
When we consider complaints like this, we consider a number of different aspects. Ill refer to 
these below.
Its accepted that HSBC has an obligation to follow a customers instructions. In the first 
instance Mr S is presumed liable for his loss. I say this because theres no dispute Mr S 
made these withdrawals himself. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that HSBC 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr S fell victim to a sophisticated scam. In fact this seems to have been so sophisticated, 
that theres no evidence Mr S believes himself even now to have been a victim of a scam. 
He was giving money to someone he knew well and talking to regularly. He was continually 
being told more money needed to be provided to ensure the maximum possible financial 
return. Its clear from his sons testimony that Mr S was regularly provided with reasons why 
he wasnt getting any money yet. This had also been going for ten years.
HSBC has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions, but 
these regular cash withdrawals didnt trigger these. It is not generally my role to question the 
level financial institutions set their triggers at. 
But I have reviewed the withdrawals Mr S made and whether they could be considered as sufficiently unusual such that HSBC ought to have intervened. Overall I dont think they 
were. I say this for the following main reason.
Mr Ss cash withdrawals resemble those made by someone who is totally cash reliant. This 
wouldnt be considered as unusual for someone of Mr Ss age. Mr Ss son has confirmed 
that his father relied on cash and cheques to manage his and his wifes living expenses, 
despite attempts to explain how automated methods of payment, like direct debit, would 
have made Mr Ss life slightly easier.
From reviewing Mr Ss HSBC statements, I can see he had few direct debits or ever used his 
debit card for purchases or other transactions. Cheques were used to pay bills. Anybody 
reviewing his expenditure would reasonably assume his withdrawals were cash for his and 
his wifes living expenses.
Mr S generally used a small group of local cash machines to withdraw his cash. Over the 
period Ive reviewed his statements, these didnt differ. I cant see any immediate reason 
why HSBC would consider these as unusual.
I do note that Mr S increasingly made use of an overdraft facility with HSBC. An overdraft for 
£1,000 was granted in 2011 but only limited use of this facility was made until the latter half 
of 2012 when more regular use was made. 
The overdraft increased to £1,500 around the middle of 2012 and to £2,500 in the latter part 
of 2013. It wasnt until 2017/18 that Mr Ss use of his account meant that he was regularly 
exceeding his overdraft limit. And for some periods around this time, Mr S  presumably 
aware of his limited funds  stopped using his HSBC account that much and activity 
decreased considerably. Transfers were made into Mr Ss HSBC to bring the account back 
into credit not long after.
Ive seen nothing from HSBC to indicate that they considered what was going on or had any 
concerns about Mr Ss usage of his bank account.
However even if they had queried what was going on, I dont believe it would have made any 
difference. All the evidence provided to our service  by both Mr Ss son and the local police 
who carried out an investigation  confirms Mr S was and remains adamant that he is not a 
victim of a scam.
He would more than likely have confirmed  as he did to the police  that he was making 
regular payments to someone he knew and who was a friend. Its clear from what the police 
told us that they remain sceptical that a scam existed at all. They also, at the time, had no 
concerns about Mr Ss mental capacity. This fits into what we know that up until 2019 Mr S 
was managing his finances independently. So Im not sure I could expect HSBC to have 
carried out an investigation which would have resulted in a different outcome. 
In many ways Mr S may have been considered vulnerable because of his age, However I 
think HSBC would have considered other aspects of Mr Ss financial behaviour were 
appropriate.
I appreciate Mr Ss son latest submission states the police didnt carry out any assessment 
into Mr Ss mental capacity. I dont dispute that. But that doesnt mean they didnt come to an 
informal view on this issue, as indicated above.
Mr Ss son has also provided additional evidence from medical professionals which confirm 
no assessment of Mr Ss mental capacity was taken out before 2020. Their assessment at 
that time was that Mr S was not likely to have been cognitively impaired in 2010 (when this fraud first took place) but that this had been developing before 2020. I have taken this into 
account.
I can see from the strength of Mr Ss sons submissions that hes convinced his father was 
scammed and that HSBC had the power to intervene. I can see why he may think that. 
However I disagree and believe if HSBC had asked Mr S questions, he would have provided 
a story which would have raised no further alarms.
I have also reviewed the overdrafts Mr S was granted during the time he was giving money 
to G. HSBC has not been able to confirm what discussions were had with Mr S but I believe 
they were satisfied Mr S wasnt entering into an unaffordable credit arrangement. Im aware 
that Mr S had accounts with at least two other financial institutions. I can also see that 
money was paid into Mr Ss HSBC account to pay off the overdraft.
Mr Ss son raised a number of issues around the account G held with HSBC. I dont believe 
there was anything there that would suggest HSBC should have intervened. And if they had, 
Im sure Mr S would have confirmed that he was making payments to G willingly. They would 
have had no grounds to take further action.
Overall and based on the evidence Ive seen, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against HSBC UK 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman