DRN-3325733
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled his claim under 
his home emergency insurance policy. Hes unhappy that it made the incorrect diagnosis, 
and this resulted in delays to the repair. 
Any reference to Aviva includes agents and representatives acting on its behalf. 
To resolve the complaint, Mr Y would like to be compensated for the delays and doesnt 
think the amount currently offered by Aviva is acceptable. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider Aviva has already fairly offered to resolve matters for the 
following reasons:
Theres no dispute things didnt go as they should have. Aviva has acknowledged it 
could have done more to correctly diagnose the issue with the boiler at the initial visit. 
It also accepted had it done so Mr Y may not have had to face multiple visits from its 
engineers and the repair could have been fixed sooner. Aviva also accepted it 
provided Mr Y with incorrect information that his boiler was beyond economical repair 
(BER) when it wasnt. 
If Aviva had correctly diagnosed the problem at the initial visit and taken the 
appropriate steps, I think its unlikely Mr Y would have needed to wait as long as he 
did to have the issue resolved. So I do think Mr Y has been inconvenienced and its 
right he should receive some compensation. 
When Aviva told Mr Y that the boiler was BER it sent him a payment of £200, Aviva 
has told us that it hasnt requested this payment back even though it now accepts the 
boiler wasnt BER. Its also offered to pay Mr Y an additional £360 compensation in 
recognition of the poor service and delays throughout his claim. Whats therefore left 
for me to consider is whether the compensation Aviva offered is proportionate to the 
inconvenience Mr Y was put to.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for 
distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have 
had. And in order to award further compensation to Mr Y, I would have to be satisfied 
that the wrongful actions of Aviva caused him, significantly greater impact than the 
distress, upset and worry that hes told us it caused, which Im not persuaded it has 
in these circumstances.
I recognise Mr Y feels the compensation already offered falls short of an acceptable 
amount, given what hes said about the per day/per person ratio. But we look at the 
overall impact a businesss mistake had on the complainant  rather than awarding 
based on units of time or individual hourly/daily rates. I see no reason to depart from 
this approach.
Ive thought about everything Mr Y has told us about the impact this had on him and 
his family. This includes the time taken for Aviva to resolve the issue, his individual 
circumstances, and the number of attendances from engineers that were needed. I 
appreciate that the experience would have been entirely frustrating to Mr Y, but I 
dont consider the actions of Aviva to warrant any further compensation at a higher 
level. I can see Aviva did attempt to deal with the boiler issues (although not always 
necessarily to Mr Ys satisfaction), and Aviva have since acknowledged that its 
service did fall below standards and have apologised. 
I note Mr Y feels the £560 offered by Aviva doesnt adequately represent his upset 
and inconvenience caused. But awards for distress and inconvenience from this 
service are generally modest. It isnt the role of this service to punish businesses. I 
think the amount offered is fair and in line with amounts awarded by this service in 
similar cases. 
I recognise Mr Y is likely to be disappointed with my findings. But, in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Avivas offer of £560 in compensation of his complaint is a fair one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is Aviva Insurance Limited has already fairly 
resolved the complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr Y the remaining £360 if it 
hasnt done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman