DRN-3581160
The complaint
Mrs K complains about advice she received from Phoenix Life Limited when taking out a 
whole of life policy in 1996.
Mrs K is being represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). For 
ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mrs K.
What happened
In 1996 Mrs K spoke with Phoenix and took out a whole of life policy which was later 
surrendered in 2011. 
In 2021 Mrs K complained to Phoenix saying the policy had been mis-sold as she was only 
looking for critical illness cover and wasnt interested in a life policy. Phoenix agreed saying 
the paperwork from the time showed Mrs K was only looking for critical illness cover. 
To resolve the complaint Phoenix calculated the cost of a standalone critical illness policy 
and compared that to the premiums paid less the surrender value from 2011. These 
calculations showed that Mrs K didnt suffer a financial loss from what happened.
Mrs K disagreed with the redress and brought the complaint to our service saying that 
Phoenix should be deducting the actual cost of cover from any redress. One of our 
Investigators looked into what happened and thought Phoenix had acted fairly in making 
calculations of redress in the way they did. Mrs K remained unhappy so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt a full set of paperwork from the time of the sale which isnt surprising as it was 
over some 25 years ago. What we do have is a Planning your future document that records 
the discussion between the adviser and Mrs K at the time. Amongst other information this 
records that Mrs K was just looking for critical illness cover. 
So looking at the available evidence I think Mrs K was only looking for critical illness and not 
a whole of life policy. Therefore I think the sale wasnt appropriate. 
To put things right Phoenix have calculated the cost of a standalone critical illness policy and 
compared that to the cost of the whole of life policy which was sold. Also taking into 
consideration the surrender value Mrs K was paid in 2011. The calculations show that had 
Mrs K been sold the critical illness cover she wanted, rather than a whole of life policy, there 
would have been no financial loss. 
Mrs K disagrees with this saying Phoenix should be deducting the actual cost of cover rather 
than the cost of a critical illness policy. However, I dont agree. I think in this particular set of 
circumstances, comparing the whole of life policy with a critical illness policy is a fair and 
reasonable way of calculating any redress.    
Looking at the calculations, and the product used for comparison, Im satisfied there is no 
financial loss so I wont be asking Phoenix to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman