DRN-3395490
The complaint
Mrs M's complaint is about the price of her pet insurance policy with Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
What happened
Mrs M took out a pet insurance policy for her dog in August 2015. The policy was at that time 
underwritten by another insurer. In August 2020 Pinnacle took over the policy. 
Mrs M paid just over £875 for the policy year August 2019 to August 2020, and £1,052.76 for 
the policy year August 2020 to August 2021. When the policy was due to renew in August 
2021, she was quoted £1,333.56 for the year. She is unhappy with the increases each year, 
especially as she says she has not made a claim for her dog since 2018.
 
Mrs M has asked that the premium be reduced and would accept that perhaps up to a 10% 
increase in premium might be reasonable. 
Pinnacle says it calculated the premium correctly based on various factors, including its 
knowledge of the likely cost of claims for dogs of the same age and breed as Mrs Ms dog. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He said he could only look at the price 
increases since Pinnacle took over the policy as it was not responsible for any pricing earlier 
than August 2020. The Investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, as he 
was satisfied that Pinnacle had calculated the premium correctly and in line with other 
policyholders in similar circumstances. 
Mrs M does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
She says she did not doubt her premium was calculated correctly as far as Pinnacle was 
concerned but her concern is that Pinnacle has only referred to general considerations and 
has not provided any evidence as to how her dogs individual circumstances have been 
taken into account in calculating the premium. Mrs M says it seems Pinnacle has free rein to 
calculate what it likes and the calculation criteria is not visible to her. The year on year price 
increases have caused her stress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based on the risks that it thinks a customer presents.  We 
are not able to require insurers to set premiums at any particular level and have no power to 
require them to reduce their prices. 
Similarly, individual consumers have a choice about which policy and which insurer they 
wish to take insurance with, or not take insurance at all  unless its a requirement, legal or 
otherwise. We are not able. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy that applies to all consumers 
and then other factors they consider relevant to the risk being covered are applied, which 
might bring that base premium up or down. Different insurers apply different factors but they 
might include an individuals claims history, the breed of dog and the cost of vet fees, among 
other things. Pinnacle has also already explained that the age and breed of Mrs Ms dog was 
a significant factor in the pricing of the policy in 2020 and 2021.  Her dog has got older and 
Pinnacle will be considering the risk of future claims. I note Mrs M says she has not made a 
claim since 2018 but past claims made is only one possible factor when calculating the 
underwriting risk. 
Mrs M is unhappy as she says the pricing criteria used is not clear to her but this is 
commercially sensitive. I cant therefore set out in detail the way that Pinnacle sets its 
premiums or the factors that it considers relevant and apply to its premiums. I have, 
however, considered the information it has provided. I cannot see that anything has been 
unfairly priced and it has applied its underwriting criteria consistently. 
As stated above, I have no power to make an insurer reduce its charges or to negotiate a 
premium on behalf of a consumer. I can only determine if Mrs M has been treated fairly 
compared with other customers and I am satisfied she has been.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman