DRN-2974576
The complaint and background
Mr H and Miss S complain Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim. They were due to 
get married abroad in November 2021. In October 2020, they cancelled the wedding and 
re-arranged it in the UK, incurring losses in the process. 
They made a claim to Great Lakes, having taken out wedding insurance in February 2020. 
They explained that the country where they were due to marry had closed its borders to 
most UK travellers. So, it was unclear whether theyd be able to travel to the venue at all, 
or whether theyd need to be / would be vaccinated. They also thought there was a risk the 
venue wouldnt be able to host the wedding, even if they were able to travel there. 
They felt that in either scenario, their flights and accommodation (and those of their guests) 
probably wouldnt be covered by travel insurance. So, theyd be taking a huge financial risk 
by booking anything in advance. And it wasnt reasonable to expect them and their guests to 
hold off, see what happened, and book flights and accommodation at very short notice in the 
event that the wedding could go ahead. 
Great Lakes declined the claim on the basis it arose from a government regulation or act, but 
later agreed to set aside this exclusion. When it reconsidered the claim, it said, in short, that 
no insured event had taken place. There was no cover for an inability to travel (except due to 
adverse weather conditions). While there was cover for the venue not being able to host the 
wedding due to an outbreak of infectious disease, it didnt feel it was reasonable to conclude 
in October 2020 that the venue wouldnt be able to host the wedding. It agreed to review 
things again if it did turn out the venue wouldnt have been able to host the wedding. 
Mr H and Miss S find it unreasonable that theyre covered for an inability to travel due to 
adverse weather conditions, and if the venue was unable to host the wedding due to an 
outbreak of infectious disease, but not if theyre unable to travel due to an outbreak of 
infectious disease. Our investigator was satisfied, on balance, the policy terms had been 
applied fairly. She felt Great Lakes should pay Mr H and Miss S £100 compensation for 
customer service issues. Mr H and Miss S didnt agree, so I need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident that the cancellation of the wedding had a significant financial and emotional 
impact on Mr H and Miss S. With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy 
to decide whether Great Lakes should have accepted their claim.
Sadly, Mr H and Miss Ss rearranged wedding was also cancelled due to the unfortunate 
passing of Mr Hs mother. This is the subject of a separate claim, so I wont comment on it in 
this decision.  
Whilst Ive reviewed the policy terms in full, Ive only focused on the sections most relevant 
to Mr H and Miss Ss claim below. The burden of proof initially rests with them to establish, 
on balance, that theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. Whilst theyve highlighted that 
the pandemic was an unforeseen circumstance, the policy terms still need to be applied. 
Inability to travel
Mr H and Miss Ss policy doesnt cover them for every eventuality. Under the cancellation 
section, theyre covered for a specified list of events. The only event which relates to their 
ability to travel to the wedding venue is:
the inability of the wedding party and guests to reach the wedding or wedding 
reception venue due to adverse weather conditions.
Its reasonable, in principle, for insurers to decide which risks theyre prepared to take on. 
Here, as in most other wedding insurance policies, the insurer has decided its only prepared 
to cover an inability to travel in limited situations, whereby the inability to travel results from 
adverse weather conditions. 
Whilst it wasnt unreasonable for Mr H and Miss S to conclude that Covid-19 related travel 
restrictions would likely prevent them and their guests from reaching the venue, Im satisfied 
this isnt a circumstance that their wedding insurance policy covers them for. Thats because 
it only covers the inability of the wedding party and guests to reach the wedding venue due 
to adverse weather conditions.
Inability of the venue to host the wedding 
Mr H and Miss S have highlighted that the policy also covers them for:
 the booked venue for the wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold your 
wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease or closure of the 
venue by the relevant authority. 
I dont think this combination of insured events produces an illogical or irrational result. If a 
venue was unable to host a wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, 
and the wedding party and guests couldnt have reached the venue anyway (for any reason), 
cover would still apply. But where a venue could host the wedding, and the wedding party 
and guests just couldnt get there, cover will only apply if their inability to travel arose from 
adverse weather conditions. 
I appreciate that at different times during the pandemic, it was unclear whether weddings 
would be able to go ahead in different locations. Weve taken the view that claims should be 
accepted where:
it was reasonable for the policyholders to conclude their venue wouldnt be able to 
host their wedding;
their circumstances meant they had to take action rather than wait and see (for 
example because a payment to a supplier had become due); 
cancelling the wedding mitigated their potential losses.
When Mr H and Miss S cancelled their wedding in October 2020, I dont consider it was 
reasonable to conclude the venue wouldnt be able to host the wedding in November 2021. 
In the place where they were due to marry, a number of restrictions had been terminated. 
There were still some restrictions on how many people could attend public gatherings, but 
these would have accommodated Mr H and Miss Ss wedding and have since been eased. Considering the above, I think Great Lakes offer to reconsider the claim if it turns out the 
venue would have been unable to host the wedding on the original date is reasonable. 
Unless that turns out to be the case Im satisfied theres no cover under this insured event.
Is the limited cover for an inability to travel a significant or unusual feature of this policy?
The vast majority of wedding insurance policies only offer cover for an inability to travel due 
to adverse weather conditions (and sometimes natural catastrophe). So, I dont think its an 
unusual feature. In ordinary circumstances, I dont think its a significant feature of the policy 
either, in that it wouldnt tend to affect the decision of consumers generally to buy the policy. 
Having said that, this policy was purchased in late February 2020, by which time the 
pandemic was gathering pace. And in that context, it became more significant that a policy 
taken out to cover a foreign wedding would only cover an inability to travel in the event of 
adverse weather conditions. So, arguably, Great Lakes should have done more to explain 
the nature of this aspect of cover to Mr H and Miss S.  
As Ive said though, the cover under wedding insurance policies for an inability to travel is 
reasonably standardised. Some insurers even exclude claims arising from cancelled travel 
arrangements made in respect of weddings outside the UK. So, even if Mr H and Miss S 
decided to look for alternative cover, having been told this policy wouldnt cover an inability 
to travel unless due to adverse weather conditions, I think its unlikely theyd have found an 
alternative policy that would have covered them in these circumstances. 
How much compensation should be paid? 
Finally, Ive considered Great Lakes overall handling of the claim. While, for the reasons set 
out above, I think it reached a fair outcome, it took a considerable period of time for it do so. 
And in the meantime, Mr H and Miss S were left uncertain of whether their claim would be 
covered, and sent a number of emails which, to their frustration, went unanswered. Having 
weighed up the impact of this, I think the amount our investigator recommended (£100) is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr H and Miss S £100 
compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr H and Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman