DRN-2534547
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy TSB Bank Plc blocked his account and access to his funds and then closed 
his account. 
 
What happened
TSB blocked Mr Ms account on 7 September 2019 and asked him for proof of entitlement to 
recent credits into his account. Mr M provided some documentation to TSB on 10 September 
2019, however, TSB explained that this wasnt sufficient for it to remove the block. 
Mr M told TSB the money was from his aunt who lived in the USA and was for family 
support. TSB explained that it would need statements from his aunt who sent him the 
money. Mr M said he couldnt obtain the statements immediately as his aunt was in the 
hospital looking after her granddaughter. He provided a screenshot of the statements on 25 
September 2019, however, TSB still wasnt able to accept these and asked that he provide a 
certified copy of the statements. Mr M was able to do this on 30 September 2019 and after 
reviewing the documentation, TSB unblocked the account on 8 October 2019. 
TSB issued Mr M with 60 days notice to close the account at that point and he attended 
branch on 9 October 2019 to withdraw the remaining funds in his account. 
Mr M has explained that he needed access to the money sent by his aunt as this was to be 
sent on to cover surgery costs for his partner. Mr M has said that his partner has since 
passed away. He says that being without access to his account caused him severe hardship 
and he had to borrow £1,000 from a friend and pay interest on this amount. He was 
particularly unhappy with the service he received from the branch staff saying they were 
unprofessional, unfair and didnt keep him updated. 
Mr M said he didnt have any other accounts at the time. But he was able to open a new 
account with a different bank by mid-September 2019. 
TSB issued its final response explaining that in order to keep their customers accounts 
secure and protect against financial crime, it has the right to ask for proof of entitlement to 
any funds paid into an account. It apologised for the service he received and said its 
intention wasnt to cause any distress or inconvenience. It offered to cover any costs Mr M 
had suffered by attending branch so frequently. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. 
She concluded TSB had to block Mr Ms account and request proof of entitlement from him. 
She didnt think it has caused any delays  the delay instead being due to Mr Ms aunt being 
unable to obtain the bank statements at that particular time. She also concluded that TSB 
was entitled to close Mr Ms account in line with the terms and conditions and that from his 
statements she was satisfied he did have an account elsewhere at the time of the block and 
closure. However, she recommended TSB pay Mr M £100 for the fact it didnt inform him he 
could have access to his wages during the period the block was in place, and she was 
satisfied this wouldve caused him a degree of trouble and upset. 
TSB disagreed with our investigators conclusions. It said that if Mr M wanted or needed 
access to his wages then he couldve asked, and he wouldve been granted access to these. 
Because TSB disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to share my condolences with Mr M for the loss of his partner. I understand 
this mustve been extremely difficult for him. My conclusions on his complaint are in no way 
meant to belittle what hes been through and I can understand how upset he is with TSB for 
it delaying access to his funds. 
This being said, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Account review and block
TSB has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening 
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity 
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being blocked and 
closed.  If TSB didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Taking this into account, Im satisfied TSB was within its rights to review Mr Ms account and 
that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. It did so in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations and in line with the account terms and conditions.
 
Mr M has explained how he was impacted by the block and not having access to the queried 
money in his account, so Ive looked at whether TSB couldve acted any quicker than it did 
or done anything differently. TSB was entitled to ask for a certified copy of the bank 
statement as proof of where the money into Mr Ms account had come from. I understand to 
Mr M the amount of proof it required may have seemed excessive, but as Ive explained, 
TSB has legal and regulatory duties to comply with. 
It is very unfortunate that this request coincided with Mr Ms aunt being otherwise occupied 
due to her daughter being in hospital, as this caused the bulk of the delay. So, taking this 
into account and from everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the time and actions taken in 
relation to Mr Ms account and the payments in question were necessary and reasonable for 
TSB to conduct its review and meet its legal and regulatory obligations. 
I therefore dont believe TSB should compensate Mr M for withholding this money whilst the 
review was conducted. It needed to be satisfied he was entitled to the money which had 
been paid into his account. 
However, TSB has acknowledged that Mr M wouldve been entitled to receive some or all of 
the wages paid into his account to cover essential outgoings such as food and bills. This isnt 
something that was offered to him at the time though. TSB didnt agree to the 
recommendation made by our investigator to compensate Mr M for this. It said that if Mr M 
had wanted or needed access to this money, he wouldve asked. However, I dont think this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As far as Mr M was concerned, he couldnt 
access his account. Just because he didnt know to ask the direct question, doesnt mean he 
didnt need his wage payments, and indeed hes told us he had to borrow £1,000 from a friend during the time the account was blocked  which is roughly the amount of his wages 
that remained in the account. I think its fair to conclude that if Mr M had known he could 
obtain his wages, he wouldve done so. Mr M attended branch on numerous occasions and 
his frustration was no doubt apparent. So, the branch staff couldve reviewed the account 
notes and seen he was entitled to his wages  this may have then seen him through. 
Its fair to say Mr Ms main concern was the other money in his account as he needed this 
larger amount to send to his partner. But Im also satisfied that having access to his wages 
wouldve been important to him and made that month where his account was blocked 
financially less of a struggle. So, I think compensation is warranted. When considering the 
amount, Ive taken into account that Mr M was able to open another bank account elsewhere 
whilst his account was blocked, so had the opportunity to have his wages paid elsewhere 
after this point. I therefore think £100 compensation is fair to both parties.
Mr M says he had to borrow money from a friend during the time his account was blocked 
and interested was added to this. However, he hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
this, so I dont believe its fair to ask TSB to cover this interest. 
Account closure
TSB was entitled to close Mr Ms account and did so in in line with the account terms and 
relevant regulations. TSB has the discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr M 
can choose who to bank with.
Customer service 
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received in branch and the fact he had to make so 
many trips. I appreciate it mustve been extremely frustrating that the branch staff couldnt 
provide Mr M with a detailed update or explanation for why it had blocked the account. 
However, TSB wasnt under any obligation to tell Mr M why it had taken the action it had. 
And in order to comply with the rules and regulations in place, the review can take an 
indeterminate amount of time. So, I think TSB staff acted correctly in this instance. 
The tone of these types of conversations can be different from the usual customer service 
interaction, due to the nature of what is being discussed and the limited information the 
advisors can give. Im pleased to see TSB apologised for any service issues Mr M 
experienced and offered to cover his costs. So, taking everything into consideration, I wont 
be asking TSB to take any further action in relation to this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct TSB Bank Plc to pay him £100 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman