DRN-3482849
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold Gold and Platinum Packaged Bank Accounts (PBAs) 
by Lloyds Bank PLC. He says that he didnt realise he was paying for packaged accounts 
with benefits, just an overdraft. He would like a refund of the account fees.
What happened
Mr A has held this account in various forms for many decades. Although the records 
dont go back beyond September 2001, at that point it was a Gold PBA. Lloyds began 
selling Gold PBAs at some point in the early 1990s, and after such a long period of time 
it isnt surprising that the exact date of the upgrade can no longer be confirmed. 
However, the cost and benefits on the early Gold PBAs were consistent over several 
years. So, on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that Mr A was charged 
£8 per month for the account (although that would have been waived if the account 
balance remained above £1,000). I also think the key benefits are likely to have been 
travel insurance and banking benefits, namely preferential rates on borrowing, via both 
overdrafts and loans.
In May 2002 the account was upgraded to a Platinum PBA. At that time, the account 
cost £12 per month and the key benefits were worldwide travel insurance; breakdown 
cover; and preferential rates on borrowing.
Mr A complained to Lloyds that the PBAs had been mis-sold to him. Lloyds rejected that 
and Mr A brought his case to this service. The adjudicator considered the evidence and 
concluded that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
does not accept that and asked an ombudsman to look at things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to the consideration of complaints about the sale of packaged 
bank accounts, which everyone can read, on our website. Ive kept that in mind when 
reviewing this case. Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
To be clear, in order to uphold a complaint I would need evidence to persuade me both that 
Lloyds had made a mistake in these sales, and that the mistake had caused tangible 
detriment to Mr A.
Did Mr A agree to the Gold PBA, knowing he didnt have to?
As mentioned above, Mr A had held a fee free account with Lloyds for several decades 
before this upgrade and Mr A himself has acknowledged that he cannot remember the sale 
as a result of the passage of time. This happened at least 21 years ago. However, he has 
seen information which suggests that he had a gold service loan in the late 1990s, and is 
concerned that is linked with the upgrade to the PBA.
I accept that it is eminently possible that Mr A agreed to take the Gold PBA in order to get a 
gold service loan. As Ive already set out, the account did bring banking benefits in the 
form of preferential interest rates, and so products such as loans that were only available to 
customers with Gold PBAs were very likely to have similar names. However, that does not 
mean the account was mis-sold. I think its far more likely that Lloyds correctly informed Mr 
A that the gold service loan was contingent upon the holding of a Gold PBA, and that Mr 
A decided it was worth paying for the account to make savings on the borrowing. Given 
how long ago this happened, the lack of documentary evidence on this point, including to 
prove how much Mr A may have saved in interest, cant be taken to be significant. But I 
agree with Mr A that there is a strong possibility the two products are linked, which link isnt 
necessarily problematic.
In essence, I have been given no compelling evidence that Lloyds misled Mr A into 
believing he had no option other than to agree to take the Gold PBA.
So I think its more likely than not that Mr A knew that his didnt have to upgrade to this 
PBA but chose to do so. His motivation in so doing would only be speculation after such a 
long time, but I acknowledge the potential significance of the gold service loan.
Was Lloyds wrong to recommend the Gold account to Mr A?
Its not entirely clear whether either party believes the bank advised Mr A to take the PBA. 
Either way, it makes no difference in this case, as, even if Lloyds did recommend the 
account, I dont think that would have been wrong.
In saying that, what Ive considered is whether Mr A could have used at least some of the 
main benefits of the PBA. Mr A himself has suggested that there was borrowing linked to the 
PBA, and has repeatedly emphasised the importance of an overdraft to him at this time. So 
the banking benefits appear to have been of some use. In addition, there is clear evidence of 
travel abroad around that time. Ive seen nothing to suggest therefore that Mr A had no need 
of the travel insurance, or couldnt have used it. So, if it did, I dont think Lloyds was wrong to 
recommend this PBA to Mr A.
It may not have given him full information about every aspect of the account, in fact, I think 
thats likely. But as I cant identify anything that would have meant Mr A couldnt use the 
benefits, that doesnt matter. Because if any information was missing, I cant conclude it 
would have changed his mind about taking the account.
Did Mr A agree to the Platinum PBA, knowing he didnt have to?
Mr A hasnt explicitly alleged that he didnt agree to the Platinum PBA, or believed he could 
not have a fee free account. Again, given his borrowing position, I think the banking benefits 
are likely to have been attractive to him. And his later use of both the travel insurance and 
roadside assistance indicate that he was interested in having and using such benefits.
So, again, I have been given no evidence to support the conclusion that Mr A believed he 
had no choice but to agree to the Platinum PBA, or that it was upgraded without his consent.
Was Lloyds wrong to recommend the Platinum account to Mr A?
The same considerations apply to this question as to the same one posed about the Gold 
PBA. In this instance, Mr A accepts that he used all the key benefits. However, he says that 
doesnt mean he understood them well. That may be the case, but the key question is whether the benefits could have been used by him, and therefore the account itself could 
have been of use to him. He used the benefits, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
any potentially missing information would have disuaded him from taking the account, due to 
concerns about being unable to do so.
In summary, I have found no evidence that Lloyds actions have led to any loss or detriment 
for Mr A in selling him these accounts. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC 
doesnt need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman