DRN-3241286
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to turn down her 
private medical insurance claim for a hospital admission.
What happened
Mrs B holds a private medical insurance policy with AXA. She requested authorisation under 
the policy for tests to be carried out, which AXA gave. However, whilst Mrs B was at the 
hospital (which Ill call Hospital A), she was found to be very unwell and needed urgent 
treatment. She was admitted to Hospital A for this.
AXA refused to cover Mrs Bs hospital admission. It said her policy didnt cover urgent or 
emergency treatment because this could be carried out by the NHS within six weeks. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs B brought a complaint to this service, via her representative. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXAs claims 
decision had been reasonable and in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs Bs representative didnt accept our investigators findings. The matter has therefore 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy includes a six-week option. The policy explains this means theres cover for 
in-patient treatment, day-patient treatment and any surgical procedure if the NHS cant 
provide that treatment within six weeks of when treatment should take place. 
It then says:
You are not able to claim for any of the following:
Urgent or emergency treatment because the NHS will cover this quickly. This 
includes emergency in-patient or day-patient treatment for mental health problems, 
even if you have the Mental Health Option.
Mrs Bs specialist has explained that when Mrs B went to Hospital A on 10 August, she was 
hypoxic, tachycardic, tachypnoeic, and was struggling to speak more than a word or two at a 
time. Mrs B therefore received urgent treatment. After a few hours, Mrs B was stabilised and 
transferred to a ward. Mrs B remained in Hospital A for around three weeks. 
Mrs Bs specialist says that if Mrs B hadnt attended hospital on 10 August, she would very 
likely have died at home. The specialist also said that Mrs B wasnt stable enough to be 
transferred elsewhere on the day of her admission to Hospital A, and if it had been safe 
enough to transfer her, they would have done it. However, Mrs B was in a very precarious 
position when she presented, and they worked extremely hard to treat her respiratory failure 
and save her life. 
I appreciate that Mrs B didnt go to Hospital A with the intention of receiving emergency or 
urgent treatment, and instead went there for some routine tests. Nonetheless, it's apparent 
that Mrs B was very unwell when she went to Hospital A, and that she received 
emergency/urgent treatment there. The policy specifically excludes this.
As Mrs B wasnt well enough to be transferred elsewhere on the day of her admission to 
Hospital A, Ive thought about whether it might be fair and reasonable to require AXA to pay 
for the treatment she received that day. However, given that Mrs B was apparently unwell on 
her arrival at Hospital A, I think its reasonable to say that if she had attended an NHS 
accident and emergency department instead, she would have been admitted there for 
treatment. 
Mrs Bs representative makes the point that shortly before the Hospital A admission, Mrs B 
had been discharged from an NHS hospital. She thinks this means the NHS couldnt provide 
the treatment. 
I dont know the state of Mrs Bs health when she was discharged from the NHS hospital. 
But based on Mrs Bs specialists description of her health when she attended Hospital A on 
10 August, its clear that by that point, Mrs B was very unwell. Given that her treating doctors 
in Hospital A thought Mrs B needed to be admitted for urgent treatment, I think its 
reasonable to assume that doctors in an NHS hospital wouldve concluded the same.
Mrs Bs representative says the policy allows the use of discretion in some cases. Ive 
looked carefully at the policy, and this explains there are some treatments that will be 
covered, regardless of the NHS waiting time. It says thats because they arent usually 
available within six weeks on the NHS. It then lists those treatments, but Mrs Bs claim 
doesnt fall under these.
Despite my sympathy for the situation in which Mrs B found herself, there isnt cover under 
the policy for emergency or urgent treatment. Mrs B paid a reduced premium by choosing 
the six-week option, and her representative was reminded of the six-week rule the day 
before Mrs B went to Hospital A. I therefore dont find that AXA did anything wrong by 
refusing to pay for Mrs Bs admission to Hospital A. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman