DRN-4144788
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund to him funds he 
lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr P is represented in this complaint by a solicitor, for simplicity I will refer to Mr P 
throughout this decision, even when referencing what his representatives have said on his 
behalf.
Mr P says that he saw an advert for an investment opportunity online. After paying an initial 
sum (from an account with a different bank) and speaking with people he believed to be 
investment brokers, he was persuaded to invest £9,403.82 in three payments made from his 
Halifax account between 4 and 5 March 2021. These payments were made to 
cryptocurrency wallets with two different platforms, B and M, that Mr P had been told to open 
accounts with. After making the last of these payments, Mr P was then unable to make any 
further contact with the people hed been dealing with, and at this stage he realised he had 
been the victim of a scam.
Mr P reported to Halifax that hed been scammed. Ultimately, Halifax did not think it was 
obliged to refund any of the money lost to Mr P, but it did pay him £75 to recognise that 
when he had initially raised the scam hed had to wait a long time to speak to Halifax. Mr P 
remained unhappy, and referred his complaint about Halifax to us. As our investigator (who 
didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld) couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Its not in dispute that Mr P authorised the payments himself as he thought he was dealing 
with legitimate companies. Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that Halifax is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that Mr P authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. And Mr P will then be responsible 
for the transactions that he has authorised. 
Because of this, Mr P is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr P when he made the payment requests, or whether it should have done more than it did.
In my opinion, the payments Mr P made just werent sufficiently unusual to reasonably say 
Halifax shouldnt have allowed the payments to go through without first getting in touch with 
Mr P to check everything was in order. I appreciate that Mr Ps general account usage was 
for smaller payments, but he had previously made similar large payments to third parties. 
And while the amounts we are discussing here will undoubtedly feel like a lot of money to 
Mr P, I dont think they were high enough to have triggered further questions from Halifax. 
So in the wider context of how Mr P used his account, I cant say that any of these payments 
were high enough to have seemed suspicious or to have stood out to Halifax. 
I also cant see there were any warnings about the businesses Mr P paid that ought to have 
concerned Halifax. I understand the recipient businesses were involved in cryptocurrency, 
but not all payments made for cryptocurrency are a result of a scam. And in this case, I dont 
think where the payment was headed ought to have automatically triggered Halifaxs 
attention.
So as Halifax didnt interact with Mr P at the time of these payments, Im satisfied it didnt 
unreasonably miss an opportunity to prevent these payments before they were sent.
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Halifax to have done anything
further until Mr P notified it hed been scammed. It appears this was on 15 March 2021, so 
around ten days after the last payment had been made. But Ive nonetheless thought about 
whether Halifax could have done more to recover the funds after Mr P reported the fraud, as 
in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the bank raising an indemnity with 
the receiving bank. 
However, in these circumstances, Mr P transferred money to his own cryptocurrency 
accounts before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So Halifax it 
wouldnt have the same obligations as the bank responsible for the eventual transfer to the 
scammers account. I also know, from experience of these kinds of cases, that scammers 
invariably will move the proceeds of their scams on very quickly, to avoid them being 
recalled, in fact Mr P has said the funds were removed from his cryptocurrency accounts 
immediately. And so any delay in a scam being reported, as there was here, means that the 
prospect of recovery is very slim. With all of this in mind, I dont consider that Halifax could 
have done more to recover the money that Mr P has lost. 
Halifax is also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr P under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to payments which 
the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been the case here given 
the payments were made to Mr Ps cryptocurrency accounts before being moved on to the 
scammer). 
I understand there were some delays in Mr P being able to reach Halifax on the phone when 
he first tried to make contact about the scam, but Halifax has paid Mr P £75 to recognise the 
impact of that delay, and I think that is reasonable compensation in the circumstances. Ive 
not seen anything to show that there were any other failures in service that would merit 
further compensation here.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Halifax can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances, and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman