DRN-2009258
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) excluded a specific medical 
condition under her pet insurance policy. My references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs C had lifetime pet insurance for her dog, insured by RSA, which she took out in early 
2019. In June 2019 she claimed on the policy for treatment of her dogs occasional
lameness.
RSA initially declined the claim. Mrs Cs dogs vet notes in August 2018 recorded that the 
dog had occasional lameness and bilateral patella luxation (knee caps moving out of their 
natural position). RSA said the dog had a pre-existing condition before the policy started 
which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mrs C paid for an x-ray. The vet told RSA he didnt think the dog had patella luxation and the 
cause of lameness was unknown. RSA paid the claim but told Mrs C it had placed an 
exclusion on the policy for patella luxation so her dog wouldnt be covered if he required 
treatment due to that condition in the future.
Mrs C complained to us that the exclusion was unfair as the vet had told her and RSA her 
dog didnt have patella luxation.
Our investigator said RSA fairly added the specific exclusion.
Mrs C disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She said she saw a junior vet in 
August 2018 and the later notes by another vet when x-rays had been done were clear her 
dog didnt have patella luxation.
Before I made my first provisional decision I asked RSA to send us the wording of the 
specific exclusion it had added to the policy. RSA replied referring to the general policy 
exclusion wording for existing conditions.
My first provisional decision  and why
Ive made two provisional decisions. In the first I explained why I was intending to uphold this 
complaint. I said:
The policys general exclusion for existing conditions, which RSA referred us to, says:
We will not pay any claims for anything that is caused by, relates to or results from 
an illness, disease or injury or any changes in your pets normal healthy state, its 
bodily functions or behaviour which your pet had before this policy started.
So if Mrs C makes a claim in the future which RSA thinks falls within that general exclusion it 
may well decide not to pay a claim for that problem. If Mrs C disagrees that the problem falls 
within the general exclusion she can complain to RSA and ultimately to us. We would make 
a decision on the basis of the evidence at the time.
But RSA has told Mrs C and us that its added a specific exclusion to the policy for patella 
luxation, although its not sent us the specific wording as I would expect it to. Ive made my 
decision on the basis that RSA has added a specific exclusion, and I dont think it can fairly 
do so.
The vet notes of 29 August 2018 say:
o(wner) reports occasional hops on walkbilateral patallar (sic) luxation 
present...Discussed patellar luxation and management, agreed to monitor for now.
That note says the vet diagnosed Mrs Cs dog had patella luxation before the policy was 
taken out and its the note RSA has used to explain why it added the specific exclusion. But 
later notes by another vet at the same practice, and the vets letter to RSA, not only say the 
dogs limping wasnt caused by patella luxation but also the dog didnt have patella luxation.
The vets letter to RSA summaries that the dogs skipping lameness had a provisional 
diagnosis of bilateral patella luxation but when the dog was anaesthetised for examination 
and x-ray in July 2019 this failed to demonstrate patellar luxation. The vet goes on to say he 
discussed the findings with an orthopaedic specialist, they both reviewed the x-rays and the 
conclusion was that '(the dog) did not have patella luxation. The cause of lameness is 
currently unknown.
I understand from the vet notes that the patella luxation was a provisional diagnosis only. 
Once the dog had been thoroughly examined, under anaesthetic and x-ray, there was no 
finding of patella luxation so the provisional diagnosis wasnt correct. Theres no vet 
evidence from RSA to say its probable that the dog did have patella luxation in 2018 which 
wouldnt show under more detailed examination in 2019.
On the evidence I currently have I dont think RSA fairly added a specific exclusion for 
patella luxation and it must remove that exclusion.
For the avoidance of doubt, if contrary to what RSA told us it hasnt added a specific 
exclusion then on the current evidence I dont think it could fairly say patella luxation was a 
pre-existing condition. However, I cant say now that RSA must pay or decline future claims 
for that matter as those claims would be assessed on the available evidence then, which 
may be different from the evidence I have now.
My provisional decision was that I was intending to require RSA to remove the specific 
exclusion for patella luxation from the policy with effect from the date the exclusion started.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mrs C accepted my provisional decision. RSA said:
it couldnt remove a specific exclusion for patella luxation from the policy because 
there wasnt a specific exclusion relating to the patella
the general policy exclusions apply to all claims and it couldnt confirm or deny that it 
would pay for future patella related claims
it agreed there was no evidence that Mrs Cs dog had patella luxation at his 
examination in July 2019 which is why it ultimately paid the claim. But it said that 
didnt mean the dog didnt have patella luxation in 2018. The second vet's comments 
in 2019 didnt say the provisional diagnosis in 2018 was wrong.
My second provisional decision and whyAs RSA had clarified there was no specific exclusion for patella luxation on the policy my 
second provisional decision was that I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
I dont think RSA has been clear that it hadnt added a specific exclusion to the policy. At the 
start of our investigation of the complaint our investigator checked whether RSA had placed 
a specific exclusion on the policy for patella related claims and it confirmed it had. Mrs C 
understood from her conversation with RSA that it had added a specific exclusion. But as 
theres no such specific exclusion for RSA to remove I cant uphold the complaint.
RSA has now been clear that if Mrs C makes a claim relating to her dogs patella in the 
future it would look to rely on the policys general exclusion for existing conditions, which 
Ive set out above.
I explained in my first provisional decision why I dont think RSA could fairly say patella 
luxation was a pre-existing condition on the current vets evidence. RSAs response hasnt 
changed my mind about that. Its clear that although the provisional diagnosis in 2018 was 
patella luxation, in 2019 the dog had a thorough examination, x-rays and specialist vet input 
after which the second vets conclusion was the dog did not have patella luxation. I think 
that means its more likely than not the provisional diagnosis in 2018 was incorrect. RSA 
didnt provide any vet evidence to show its probable that the dog did have patella luxation in 
2018 which wouldnt show under more detailed examination and consideration in 2019.
But as Ive also explained, I cant say RSA must pay or decline future claims and that 
includes claims in relation to the patella. RSA will need to reasonably assess any such future 
claim on the available evidence at the time of the claim and Mrs C can ultimately complain to 
us if she disagrees that the problem falls within the general exclusion. We would make a 
decision on the evidence at the time.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Mrs C accepted and said shes now moved to a different insurer. RSA didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs C has accepted my second provisional decision and RSA hasnt responded Ive no 
reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my second provisional decision 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman