DRN-3744387
The complaint
Miss N complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her when she could not afford it.  
What happened
Miss N complained in February 2022. Miss N was approved for one loan in February 2022 
which was for £350 repayable over 35 weeks at £17.50 each week. I do not think that Miss N 
has paid anything towards the loan. 
Miss N received Morses final response letter which said it had carried out proportionate 
checks and the income she received (less the expenditure) mean that Morses considered 
she could afford the £17.50 each week.
Miss N referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In her complaint form 
Miss N said that she was complaining about irresponsible lending. Miss N said that there 
was a mental health marker on her credit file and so the loan ought not to have been given. 
She was asking for the loan to be closed down as it was unaffordable and she had financial 
difficulties and she had health issues. 
One of our adjudicators thought that Morses had carried out proportionate checks and that it 
had been lent correctly. Our adjudicator referred to the mental health marker and said that 
the marker on its own would not be a reason for Morses not to lend to Miss N. 
Miss N responded to say she wished to appeal it and so the unresolved complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss N could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ns 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Miss N. These factors include:
Miss N having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss N having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss N coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss N. Our adjudicator considered this 
to be the case for Miss N.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss N could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss N was able to 
repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Ns complaint.
Miss N needs to understand that for a first loan and for a relatively modest sum of £350 over 
a relatively modest term (35 weeks) then the checks I consider to be proportionate were 
carried out by Morses. It obtained her weekly income which it says it verified using a credit 
search. It obtained her expenditure and it could see she could afford the loan. 
What I will say is that the credit search it carried out did show some entries which ought to 
have alerted Morses to an issue. Miss N had had seven defaults registered in the period 7 to 
12 months before she applied for the loan. And she had several delinquent accounts, the 
total debt total for which amounted to over £4,000. Shed used 20 companies in the previous 
20 months and 14 companies in the previous 6 months. 
But even if I were to decide that Morses ought to have carried out a further check before 
lending, I have nothing from Miss N to show me what it is that Morses may have seen if it 
had wanted additional financial information from Miss N. We asked Miss N to send us details 
and nothing was sent to us. 
As for the mental health and health issues, for obvious reasons I do not list her ailments 
here. I am sorry to hear of her health issues. And most of the letters and written evidence 
she has sent to us dates from April 2021. 
Miss N has referred to a  mental health marker on her credit file but I dont really know what 
she means by that and when we asked for a copy of her credit file it was not sent to us.
Miss N was a new customer to Morses and so unless she had informed Morses of these 
health and mental health issues Id not expect it to know of them. And I dont think that it had 
any reason to have known about them. Ive no evidence from Morses or from Miss N that 
Morses knew at the time. 
Miss N was asking for the loan to be closed down which suggests to me that shes expecting that I ask Morses to write off the loan. But I have no reason to ask Morses to do 
that.
I do not uphold Miss Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman