DRN-2863855
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to reject a claim 
he made for storm damage under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S made a claim to Admiral following a storm in August 2020. Water had ingressed from 
the roof causing internal damage. 
Admiral investigated Mr Ss claim. It accepted that storm conditions had occurred at the time 
of the event. But it said the damage wasnt covered as it had been caused by wear and tear. 
Admiral said the storm had highlighted an existing problem. So it rejected Mr Ss claim. 
Mr S complained to Admiral. He felt the surveyor who inspected his property hadnt been 
thorough. He was unhappy with the time Admiral had taken to reach its decision. Hed 
provided a quote from a roofer, but said Admiral hadnt taken it into consideration. 
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it dealt with the claim in a reasonable time 
frame. It said it took into account the quote provided by Mr S and a homebuyers report 
carried out in October 2018 when Mr S bought the property. Admiral said its decision to 
reject the claim for wear and tear was correct.
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Admiral to deal with his claim. He felt he 
had provided all of the information Admiral asked for. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought there wasnt sufficient 
evidence from the surveyor to support Admirals decision to reject the claim for wear and 
tear. He didnt think the homebuyers report provided enough to show the roof coverings had 
defects.
The investigator recommended Admiral deal with Mr Ss claim. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused, he recommended Admiral pay Mr S £200 compensation.  
Admiral didnt agree. It said the surveyor had provided an expert opinion from an on-site 
visit. It referred to a photo of the roof which it says supports the surveyors findings. The 
homebuyer report highlighted defects in both the roof coverings and internal roof. If the roof 
required ongoing maintenance and no repair, the homebuyer report would have categorised 
this as level 1. But the condition of the roof was categorised as 2 (external) and 3 (internal. 
So defects were identified. Admiral asked Mr S for evidence of maintenance to the roof since 
the homebuyer report, but he didnt provide any. 
So Admiral says its decision to reject the claim for wear and tear was correct. It would like an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We ask three questions in order to consider if an insurer has fairly declined a claim for storm 
damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Theres no dispute that storm conditions occurred at the time the damage occurred to Mr Ss 
property. So the answer to the first question is yes. 
I think the damage being claimed for is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. Mr 
S reported water damage coming from the roof leading to internal walls becoming wet and 
electrics being affected. 
When considering the final question, Ive looked at the homebuyer report from October 2018 
and the surveyor report with photos. 
The surveyor carried out an on-site inspection of Mr Ss home in October 2020. In summary 
he reported that the damage was due to long standing age related defects to both the gutter 
and the roof. His key comments were:
External inspection of the main roof was completed from a vantage point across the 
road. This has found that the visible sections of the timber box guttering are rotten 
and in a poor condition. The visible areas of roof tiles also show signs of nail 
sickness and a lack of maintenance in the form of vegetational growth causing the 
tiles to have gaps. 
Ive looked at the photos provided by the surveyor and I dont think they support their 
findings to evidence signs of rotting timber box guttering, widespread nail sickness or gaps in 
the tiles. 
I understand Admiral says that weight should be given to the fact that the surveyor is an 
expert and carried out an on-site visit: if photos were all that were needed there wouldnt be 
a need for their opinion. However, the evidence should demonstrate that Admirals decision 
to decline the claim due to wear and tear was fair and reasonable. I dont think the report 
and photos provided by the surveyor in this case are enough. I dont think the photos show 
the condition of the property as the surveyor described in the area of damage.
Mr S provided a copy of a homebuyer report to Admiral which was carried out when he 
bought the property in October 2018. The report includes a categorisation of parts of the 
home that have been inspected and the seriousness/urgency of any defects. The categories 
begin at level 3 (the most serious/urgent defects) down to 1. 
Key comments by the surveyor within the homebuyer report about the external roof were:The roof is of pitched design covered with natural slates. The roof covering is likely 
to be the original and will require ongoing repairs and replacements. Regular 
maintenance is recommended to keep the structure watertight.
There is a horizontal valley gutter at the junction of the roofs to the neighbouring 
property. Much of it is not visible for inspection.
The condition of the external roof was categorised as level 2: 
Condition rating 2  repairs should be done soon. Exactly when will depend on the 
type of problem, but it usually does not have to be done right away.
Many repairs could wait weeks or months, giving you time to organise suitable 
reports and quotations.
In relation to the internal roof space, the homebuyer report reads:
The roof structure is of purlin and rafter design. Traditional pitched roofs are formed 
with a timber framework which is cut and fabricated on-site as part of the construction 
process. There was no sign of stress or distortion to the frame.
A temporary sprayed foam coating has been applied to the underside of the roof 
covering. Because the coating is firmly stuck to the roof structure and its covering, 
the removal may cause damage requiring further repair. There was no sign of 
Ventilation to the roof space as the slate are sealed.
The condition of the internal roof was rated 3:
Condition rating 3  repairs should be done as soon as possible. The speed of your 
response will depend on the nature of the problem. For example,
repairs to a badly leaking roof or a dangerous gas boiler need to be carried out within 
a matter of hours, while other less important critical repairs could wait for a few days.
Admiral says it asked Mr S for proof of maintenance works to the roof in light of the findings 
under the homebuyer report in October 2018  but Mr S didnt provide any. And so it said its 
decision to reject the claim was fair as there was a lack of maintenance of the roof, despite 
the highlighted defects.
It also says that if there were no defects to the roof, the condition of it would have been 
categorised at level 1: 
Condition rating 1  no repair is currently needed. The property must be maintained 
in the normal way.
However, in relation to the outer roof there is nothing in the homebuyers report to indicate 
rotting wooden gutter boxes or joists, or any defects that require repair. The surveyor 
reported damage coming down the internal wall coming directly from the rotting guttering. If 
as the surveyor says this is a wear and tear issue, I think this would have been happening 
for some time. I think there would be some evidence of advanced damp and possibly mould 
growth inside the house. Photos of the internal damage dont show signs of this.
So based on all of the information available, I think Admirals decision to reject Mr Ss claim 
due to wear and tear was unfair. It therefore follows that I think storm conditions were the 
main cause of damage. 
So Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and I agree with the investigators recommendations set 
out below.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to deal with Mr Ss claim for storm damage. Admiral should pay Mr S £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience its decision caused him. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman