DRN-2518291
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as P have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE has refused to
indemnify them for a claim under their fleet motor insurance policy. Mrs R, a director of P, 
has complained on Ps behalf.
What happened
A third-party contacted Great Lakes in August 2018 to claim against Ps policy after one of
Ps drivers crashed into the third-partys wall. Great Lakes said it contacted P on the same
day and chased P for information it needed in September 2018. As Great Lakes said it
hadnt received the information it needed by November 2018, it refused to provide indemnity.
Great Lakes said it would pay the third-partys claim and seek reimbursement of around
£20,000 from P.
Great Lakes said it received an email in March 2019 explaining that the reason why P hadnt
sent information sooner, was because the driver no longer worked for them. P provided a
copy of the front of the drivers driving licence. Great Lakes said this wasnt enough
information and maintained its decision not to provide indemnity.
P brought their complaint to us. Mrs R said P had provided all the information to the third-
party acting on their behalf and the reason for the delay was that theyd been trying to
contact the driver.
Great Lakes said the early reporting of a claim allowed them to better manage
a claim, including investigating liability and controlling costs. It added that the lack of
information provided by P meant it wasnt able to check whether the driver would be covered
by the policy. It said it needed to check the date the driver passed his test, his medical
conditions, as well as any previous accidents or convictions.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 December 2020. In that decision I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The third-party acting on Ps behalf wasnt acting as Great Lakes agent. So, I cant make
findings on the actions of the third-party agent in this decision. I can only consider what
Great Lakes might, or might not, have done wrong.
The terms of Ps policy say that the insured must report the incident as soon as possible. Id
only think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on this if it could show that by
not reporting the claim sooner, P had prejudiced Great Lakes. By that I mean that it had put
them in a worse position than if P had reported the claim straight away.
Great Lakes has referred to various reasons why late reporting could cause prejudice. This
includes the management of the claim and the costs. But in this particular case I havent
seen enough to persuade me that Great Lakes would have paid any less on the third-partys
claim than if P had reported the claim sooner.
Great Lakes also said that in not reporting the claim its been unable to properly validate the
drivers details. Mrs R has now provided a copy of the drivers medical record and the date
he passed his test. Great Lakes hasnt indicated that either of those documents would mean
he wasnt insured but say it would need further information. Still outstanding is whether the
driver had any previous accidents or driving offences. P has explained that offences arent
shown on the drivers licence because it isnt a UK licence. Theyve also said that previous
claims would be against a vehicle rather than a driver.
Ive asked Great Lakes how it would have checked this information, if the claim had been
reported sooner. Great Lakes said it would have worked with P and the driver to carry out
checks. In this particular case, I think that by not reporting the claim sooner, Great Lakes
wasnt able to carry out the checks it would have done to validate the claim. I say that
because it hasnt had the access to the driver and the required information that it needed to
check he was covered by the policy. As such, I think the late reporting of the claim most
likely put Great Lakes in a worse position than it would have been in if the claim had been
reported sooner. For that reason, I dont intend to interfere with Great Lakes decision to
refuse indemnity for the claim.
Neither Great Lakes nor P provided any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Great Lakes nor P provided any further comments, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman