DRN-3883048
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim for total and 
permanent disability benefit she made under her critical illness policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss S appealed. She 
maintained that she was unable to perform her own occupation due to illness and hadnt 
been employed in any capacity other than as director since 2019. Im grateful for her further 
submissions which I have considered.
As no agreement had been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Miss S will be disappointed by my decision, I 
dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain my reasons:
In order to qualify for total and permanent disability benefit under her policy, Miss S 
needed to show that she was unable to follow her normal occupation as a result of 
sickness and would be permanently unable to do so in the opinion of the Companys 
Medical Adviser. Miss Ss normal occupation was a mortgage adviser. 
The medical evidence confirms that Miss S suffers from debilitating medical 
conditions  this is not in dispute. However Aviva said the medical evidence didnt 
show Miss S was permanently unable to work. I dont need to make a finding in this 
regard as the claim declined and the policy cancelled for another reason. 
On her claim form submitted in July 2020 she confirmed that she was not working 
due to her health and that she was unable to do any aspect of her role. Miss S 
confirmed that the information she had given about her claim was true and complete.
Aviva explained to Miss S why it was declining her claim and cancelling her policy. It 
told Miss S that from the information it had seen regarding her business it considered 
she had taken no care to ensure that it had a full and accurate understanding of her 
circumstances. This included social media posts indicating that Miss S was working 
and contact that she had made with Aviva in a business capacity. It felt that she had 
sought to hide her ongoing involvement in her occupation. Miss S is familiar with 
these allegations and has responded in detail. Ive considered everything she has 
said but I dont find that Avivas response to Miss Ss claim was unfair in the 
circumstances.
Im not going to detail all the points made by the parties. No discourtesy is intended 
by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow me 
to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Having done so I cant say 
Avivas decision to decline Miss Ss claim and cancel her policy was unfair and 
unreasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman