DRN-4273088
The complaint
Mr C complains that Chetwood Financial Limited was irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr C had three loans from Chetwood between February 2020 and March 2022 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 19 Feb 2020 £3,000 24m £145.62 1 Feb 2022 19 Mar 2021
2 25 May 2021 £7,200 48m £203.93 1 Jun 2025 17 Feb 2022
3 1 Mar 2022 £10,000 60m £268.01 1 Mar 2027 In arrears - sold
Loans 1 and 2 were LiveLend loans, whilst Loan 3 was a BetterBorrow loan. Both are trading 
names of Chetwood Financial Limited.
Mr C says that, when he applied for the loans, he had a very poor credit score following 
previous financial difficulties. He says he was approved for credit that was considerably 
more than his annual salary and Chetwood should have realised he was struggling with 
repayments when he used loan 3 to repay loan 2.
Chetwood says Mr C declared his income and expenditure and it carried out checks with the 
credit reference agencies. It says it was confident that the lending was affordable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He was satisfied that 
Chetwood had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 and considered it was fairly lent. 
However, he found that Chetwood did not conduct proportionate checks for loans 2 and 3, 
and had it done so, it was likely to have found the repayments were unsustainable for Mr C. 
Our investigator recommended that any repayments over the amounts received for loans 2 
and 3 should be refunded with 8% interest and any negative information about them should 
be removed from Mr Cs credit file once repaid.
Chetwood responded to say that its calculations showed the affordability checks were all 
within acceptable thresholds for loans 2 and 3. It adds that the information it received did not 
indicate Mr C was in financial difficulties and it wasnt necessary to carry out further checks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the following:
Did Chetwood complete proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that hed be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Chetwood make a fair lending decision?
Did Chetwood act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
When Mr C applied for this loan, Ive seen evidence to show Chetwood asked him about his 
income and expenditure and also checked his credit file. Although I cant see that Mr C 
provided any information about his expenditure, the checks showed:
Mr Cs verified monthly income was £1,376;
He was paying £134 per month towards his mortgage;
Unsecured debt of £2,670 including three credit cards and two loans;
An existing credit commitment of £101 per month;
No adverse information on Mr Cs credit file.
Including the loan, these checks showed Mr C had a round £1,000 per month for his other 
regular expenditure and was committed to spending less than 18% of his income on credit 
commitments (excluding the mortgage) each month.
Im satisfied, therefore, that the available information did not indicate Chetwood needed to 
carry out further checks and that the lending was fair.
Loan 2
Chetwood carried out the same checks again for loan 2 and found:
Mr Cs verified monthly income was £1,521  Chetwood initially said this hadnt been 
verified, but has now confirmed it was;
He was paying £131 per month towards his mortgage;
Unsecured debt of £5,945 including two credit cards, two loans, a mail order account 
and an overdraft;
An existing credit commitment of £209 per month;
Mr C declared expenditure of £300 excluding credit;
No adverse information on Mr Cs credit file.
However, this time Im not satisfied Chetwoods checks went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was for 48 months and Chetwood needed to be satisfied that the 
repayments were sustainable for that period;
Mr C was borrowing again just two months after repaying loan 1;Including the new loan repayment, Mr C needed to commit around 27% of his income 
to credit payments  this rose to almost 36% with the cost of the mortgage;
Mr Cs unsecured debt, and his repayments, had more than doubled since loan 1;
His declared expenditure had not been verified and seemed on the low side.
So, Ive had a look at Mr Cs bank statements as a reasonable proxy for what proportionate 
checks may have found:
Mr Cs income was actually £1,261 per month in the lead up to the loan;
His regular expenditure, excluding food, was around £450 month;
Hed taken out a £3,000 loan less than 2 weeks before this loan application, for which 
the repayments were £125 per month;
Based on the above, this left Mr C with less than £150 for food and unforeseen expenditure 
each month. It also meant he was committed to spending 43% of his income on credit, rising 
to 53% including his mortgage. I consider this was unsustainable for Mr C as the loan was 
for four years. I also note he borrowed a further £4,000 before he made his first repayment.
So, I find Chetwood did not make a fair lending decision for loan 2.
Loan 3
Once again, Chetwood carried out the same checks and found:
Mr Cs verified monthly income was £1,635;
He was paying £131 per month towards his mortgage;
Unsecured debt of £15,564 including six credit cards, three loans, two mail order 
accounts and an overdraft;
An existing credit commitment of £562 per month;
Monthly expenditure of £536 based on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data;
No adverse information on Mr Cs credit file.
As with loan 2, Im not satisfied Chetwoods checks went far enough because:
The loan was for 60 months and Chetwood needed to be satisfied that the 
repayments were sustainable for that period;
Mr C was borrowing again just two weeks after repaying loan 2;
Including the new loan repayment, Mr C needed to commit around 51% of his income 
to credit payments  this rose to almost 60% with the cost of the mortgage;
Mr Cs unsecured debt had almost tripled since loan 2;
His expenditure had not been verified.
Mr Cs bank statements once again show that his income was much lower than hed 
declared  at £1,270. Given that Chetwoods own calculations showed Mr C had just £130 
remaining each month after hed made the loan repayment, it follows that the loan was 
unaffordable using the correct income figure. Im also satisfied that such a high credit 
commitment (two-thirds of Mr Cs actual income) was not sustainable for five years.In summary, I find Chetwood did not make fair lending decisions for loans 2 and 3, but Ive 
seen no evidence that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Chetwood Financial Limited should buy 
back loan 3 if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the 
debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below:
Add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
loans 2 and 3. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement);*
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Chetwood should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr C;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the 
loans once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Chetwood to take off tax from this interest. Chetwood 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman