DRN-3313330
The complaint
Mr T complains Lloyds Bank PLC provided poor customer service after he applied for an 
account. He wants compensation and for them to apologise.
What happened
Mr T tried to open a bank account with Lloyds via an account switch in October 2020. He 
received communication from Lloyds which told him his sort code and account number, his 
activation code for internet banking, and which let him know his debit card would be sent to 
him. Lloyds carried out some further checks and decided not to open the account.
Lloyds also wrote to Mr T after they decided not to provide the account. The letter was sent 
by their account switch team and they asked Mr T to contact them as they wanted further 
clarification and information from him. 
Mr T contacted Lloyds multiple times about the service he received. Lloyds responded to him 
several times, issuing two final response letters. Mr T also complained the responses he 
received didnt address his actual complaint and that some of his emails werent 
acknowledged.
Mr T has said his complaint is about the service he received in relation to the handling of his 
application. He doesnt dispute that Lloyds didnt have to provide him with an account. The 
brunt of his unhappiness stems from receiving communication which indicated his account 
was approved and his account switch was going through, only to then find out the opposite 
had happened.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. They found:
Lloyds sent out communication which understandably made Mr T feel his application 
had been approved. But Lloyds were able to carry out further checks after initially 
approving his application, so they could change their mind after sending out the 
letters.
Lloyds could refuse to offer Mr T an account.
Mr T was unhappy with Lloyds response to his complaint, but it had been addressed 
in line with what Lloyds were required to do.
Mr T disagreed and has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. As a result, his 
complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why:
Banks often send out correspondence in readiness for customers to use their accounts. 
Lloyds arent alone in this, and I understand their rationale. If they only sent account 
information after an application was fully approved, customers would then have to wait for 
the information to be sent before they could start using the account. 
I have no reason to doubt that in the majority of cases, applications are approved following 
secondary checks, but in Mr Ts case those secondary checks led to Lloyds rejecting his 
application. I understand this was frustrating given he likely thought his application was 
successful. But I dont find Lloyds were wrong to have done what they did. So, I am not 
going to tell them to compensate Mr T because he disagrees with the nature of the 
communication they sent as part of their application approval process.
Lloyds sent a letter to Mr T in early November 2020 regarding his request to switch 
accounts. I understand the content of the letter was unusual given Mr T had been told his 
application was not going further. But I dont find Lloyds sending the letter is a substantive 
reason to uphold the complaint and award compensation. Mr T knew his account application 
was unsuccessful at that time.
Mr T feels Lloyds didnt address his actual complaint. But while Lloyds didnt directly 
comment on the communication he received which led him to believe his application was 
successful, they did explain that secondary checks were carried out as part of the application 
process and that he was notified of this. 
I find Mr T would have understood the responses he received from Lloyds were prompted by 
his complaint. He found them unsatisfactory, but he was given referral rights to our service 
and he referred his complaint to us. So, I am not awarding him compensation for his 
continued engagement with Lloyds about his dissatisfaction or for Lloyds not acknowledging 
some emails when they had already referred him to our service.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman