DRN-3173696
The complaint
This is a complaint that Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI) and how it then administered the policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a credit card in 2001. 
Mr H said it was mis-sold to him.
It is also a complaint that Mr H wasnt told that he was no longer covered by the PPI when 
he stopped living in the UK. Mr H told Tesco he had moved abroad in 2013, but premiums 
were still deducted from his credit card account.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold in 2001, but said the complaint about the 
premiums after 2013 should be upheld and Tesco should refund those premiums. Mr H 
agreed, but Tesco disagreed; and so the complaint was passed to me.
When I reviewed the case, I reached a different view to that of the adjudicator, on some of 
the issues. So I wrote a provisional decision and asked for comments. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale complaint
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I agree with the adjudicator that the PPI wasnt mis-sold in 2001  Mr H bought 
the policy by filling in a postal application and was given a choice about taking 
PPI. In his circumstances at the time, it does seem that PPI was potentially useful. 
And, though its possible Tesco could have given clearer and fuller information 
about the PPI, I dont see that this is likely to have changed Mr Hs decision to 
take the PPI.
This would mean Tesco doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But Tesco will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because 
Tesco didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco has offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
If I confirm my provisional decision, I intend to say that, if it has not already 
made the payment:
Tesco has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mr 
H any extra interest he paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr H the 
difference between what Mr H owes and what he wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the 
PPI. Tesco should also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest if he paid off his 
credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back 
the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Moving abroad
I agree that Mr H wasnt covered by the PPI after he moved out of the UK in 
2013. Mr H did tell Tesco about his move at the time, and it changed the address 
on his card statements. Mr H has recently told us that Tesco has written to him to 
say it will now be closing his card account because they have noticed that his 
address is outside the UK.
However, I dont see that I should uphold this complaint against Tesco. My 
understanding is that Tesco was administering the policy on behalf of the 
underwriter, and it is the underwriter that has been receiving the premiums despite 
not being at risk. I asked the adjudicator to contact the underwriter to see 
whether it would agree to refund the premiums for the time after Mr H moved in 
2013, without Mr H needing to ask it. It told us it didnt agree to this.
This complaint is against Tesco, and so Ive not thought about whether the 
underwriter is correct not to refund the premiums from 2013.
In response, Tesco said that it agreed with my view of the case. But it wanted to explain why 
it is now closing accounts of people living overseas. This was because of a post-Brexit 
review by European regulators, concerning customers of UK banks who are living in their 
jurisdiction, and the regulatory consequences. 
Mr H said he didnt agree with my view of the case. He said it was unfair that Tesco knew his 
non-UK address and had written to him there, and yet it had not warned him his PPI was 
useless. It had instead continued to take premiums. If their systems were capable of flagging 
that he was non-UK resident and so his credit card should now be closed down, it should 
have been able to flag that his PPI was of no use. Brokers and underwriters in other areas of 
insurance do this, Mr H said.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy with the points made by Mr H. But Tesco was acting as 
administrator and passing the premiums on to the underwriter, which also was the business 
with knowledge of the terms and restrictions of the PPI policy. I dont consider I should 
require Tesco to make a refund of the PPI premiums. 
What the business needs to doTesco has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mr H any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr H the difference between 
what Mr H owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mr H 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman