DRN-2794705
The complaint
Mrs R complains to Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) about the quality of repairs 
under her motor insurance claim. 
  
What happened
Mrs R has a Motability motor policy. This means she hires her car from Motability and its 
arranged with RSA to provide a policy for each hirer which is similar to a normal 
comprehensive motor policy. RSA handles claims by customers like Mrs R.
Mrs Rs car was hit in the rear by a third-party vehicle. She contacted RSA and they dealt 
with the incident as a non-fault claim. Mrs Rs car was sent to RSAs recommended garage 
on three separate occasions. That garage then contracted the work out to other garages.
Mrs R is unhappy that her car wasnt sent to the main dealership in the first place. She feels 
that all the issues she had over the repair couldve been avoided. Mrs R is also unhappy at 
the way RSA handled her claim. She feels it never considered how much she relied on her 
car. 
RSA acknowledged that Mrs R was inconvenienced by the repair process. It also 
acknowledged that two telephone calls from her hadnt been returned. So a total of £100 
compensation was offered. £50 by RSA and £50 by its recommended garage. Mrs R 
declined this offer and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. In her first view, she recommended that RSA increase 
the amount itd already offered to compensate Mrs R for the poor service shed received 
from a total of £100 to £500. 
RSA didnt agree with the level of compensation proposed. It said that no allowance for Mrs 
R being without a car should be factored in as shed been given a hire car. It also disagreed 
that itd failed to address Mrs Rs complaints, pointing out that these had been passed on to 
the garage. But it increased its offer to £200 compensation when it became aware that 
Motability had paid for some of the repairs.
Mrs R didnt agree with the first view either. Although she agreed £500 compensation was 
fair, she felt RSA should reimburse Motability because itd paid for some of the repairs. 
So our investigator issued a second view. She recommended that the repairs Motability had 
paid for should be covered under the claim. RSA said it hadnt been aware of this. And 
agreed to reimburse Motability for the cost of the repairs itd covered. 
Our investigator also recommended that RSA pay Mrs R £400 compensation. She felt Mrs R 
should receive £500 compensation in total. But acknowledged that shed already accepted 
£100 compensation from Motability in relation to some issues with the hire car.
RSA didnt agree to that level of compensation. It said that Mrs R had never complained to it 
about the hire car. So this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this on 1 April 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I intend to uphold this complaint. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties. RSA has agreed to reimburse 
Motability for its outlay. So the only remaining point of disagreement is the amount of 
compensation RSA should award Mrs R for its acknowledged shortcomings.
RSA has explained that all Motability customers are provided with a courtesy car during any 
repairs. And that they are also under the terms and conditions of the policy able to claim for 
loss of use if a courtesy car is not suitable. RSA note that in her second view, our 
investigator didnt reduce her suggested compensation, despite accepting that a hire car had 
been provided. RSA also says: The customer never raised an issue to RSA that the 
courtesy car was unsuitable or causing any pain or discomfort, should the customer have 
made this known, RSA would have looked into getting an alternative vehicle. So it feels that 
the compensation suggested is too high.
Mrs R says that she sustained injuries to her lower back during the car accident. Coupled 
with her other long-term medical conditions, this led to her husband taking over most of the 
driving for her while she was without her car. She says that if her rear parking camera and 
sensors had worked properly, she wouldnt have been dependent on her husband to drive 
for her. She says: the reason why I drive a car with a rear camera and parking sensors, as it 
enables me to maintain my independence. 
Im very sorry to hear that Mrs R suffers so much back pain. And I understand why her own 
car is so important to her. But I dont feel I can hold RSA responsible for Mrs R feeling the 
hire car didnt give her the same level of independence her own car gave her. RSA has 
explained that Mrs R was entitled to claim for loss of use if the hire car wasnt suitable. Its 
also explained that if Mrs R had told it about the discomfort the hire car was causing her, it 
couldve sourced an alternative. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs R complained about the hire 
car to RSA. So it wasnt given the chance to do anything differently. So I wont be 
recommending any compensation in respect of the hire car.
I understand that Mrs R has asked why the £100 compensation Motability has paid has been 
linked to the compensation RSA will be asked to pay. She says that this is a separate matter 
and I agree. RSAs compensation should be assessed against what it did wrong. 
RSA has offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience of Mrs R having to make a lot of 
calls and having to return her car to the garage several times. Whilst I appreciate Mrs R did 
suffer distress and inconvenience, I consider RSAs offer of compensation of £200 to be 
reasonable and in line with other awards Ive made in similar circumstances.
So I intend to ask Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do what it has agreed to do:
Pay Mrs R £200 compensation
Reimburse Motability for the cost of repairs its covered.
Response to my provisional decision
RSA accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs R felt that more compensation would be fair. She said that RSA shouldnt have closed her claim so prematurely and without consulting 
her. She said that RSA refused to reopen her claim even though there were still issues with 
her car. And she felt that they shouldve been much more helpful given she was a Motability 
customer. Mrs R feels that all the stress and inconvenience shed been through couldve 
been avoided.
Mrs R shared information relating to the courtesy car she was provided with. But, as 
mentioned in my provisional decision, I dont hold RSA responsible for the issues Mrs R had 
with the courtesy car. Ive seen no evidence that she told RSA about her problems. So they 
didnt have the opportunity to resolve them.
Mrs R also said that she wanted the compensation I awarded to relate specifically to her 
case.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Although Mrs R did respond to my provisional decision, she didnt provide any new 
information relevant to this complaint.
 
I appreciate that RSAs management of her claim didnt reach the standards she couldve 
expected. And I acknowledge that she couldve expected better treatment as a Motability 
customer. But I remain of the view that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of her complaint. And I can assure her that I have considered her case in 
isolation, taking all the circumstances into account. 
So I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
 
Putting things right
 I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mrs R £200 compensation
Reimburse Motability for the cost of repairs its covered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) to pay Mrs R £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they caused her. And to reimburse Motability for the cost of 
repairs its covered. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mrs R accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Jo OccleshawOmbudsman