DRN-3072777
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Inspop.com Ltd trading as Confused.com (Confused.com) has not 
paid him cashback that was offered as an incentive through the Top Cashback website.
What happened
Mr S used the cashback website to link through to an insurance policy purchase on the 
Confused.com website.  Mr S used the cashback website as it offered a financial cashback 
incentive that he wanted to take advantage of.
Mr S made a separate claim for a £20 choice reward on the Confused.com website.
Some time later Mr S checked to see if he had been paid the initial financial incentive offered 
by the cashback website. But he had not.
Mr S discussed the issue with Confused.com and was told he was only able to benefit from 
one of the offers. As Mr S had already claimed the £20 choice reward he was not entitled 
to an additional cashback incentive.
Confused.com said it had made this clear in its terms and conditions, and that from the 
information Mr S was presented with, he should have been aware he was unable to claim 
two different incentives. Mr S disagreed, he thought he should be entitled to both offers and 
that Confused.com had treated him unfairly. Mr S also says Confused.coms advertising was 
false and mis-leading.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. They 
thought the information provided by Confused.com was clear so it didnt have to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Confused.com has explained that Mr S claimed a choice reward when he took out his 
policy. It has also provided evidence that the reward has been paid. Confused.com says Mr 
S would have been aware he was unable to claim any other offer when he claimed the 
reward, as the screens Mr S would have seen at the time clearly explained this.
Confused.com has provided a copy of the screen Mr S would have seen before he was 
directed from the cashback website to the Confused.com website. The screen states:
Cashback will not be paid in addition to any other offers, discounts or rewards offered by 
Confused.com.
This statement is clear and not misleading. I think Mr S would have understood that if he 
took advantage of any other offer, such as the choice reward, he would not be able to claim 
the cashback incentive.
Confused.coms terms and conditions are also clear that Mr S would have only been able to 
benefit from one of the offers, they state:
This offer is not available in conjunction with any other offer
If car or contents and/or buildings insurance is purchased through Confused.com via a cash
back site and an application is also submitted for Confused.com Rewards, only the Choice
Reward will be rewarded.
I appreciate Mr S feels the advertising is misleading, and that it should be changed moving 
forwards. Mr S also thinks he should be able to benefit from both offers. But I am unable to 
tell Confused.com how it should advertise offers and incentives as this is not my role. I can 
look at whether I think Mr S has been treated fairly. 
From the information available Mr S was treated fairly. Confused.com clearly explained how 
the incentives worked and I think Mr S should have been aware from the screens he saw 
that he was only able to benefit from one of them.
As I dont think Confused.com has done anything wrong I will not be asking it to take any 
action to resolve Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman