DRN-4239075
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about a mistake Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as 
Swinton (Swinton) made when they renewed her home insurance policy.
Mrs R says Swinton treated her unfairly.
What happened
In February 2022 Swinton renewed Mrs Rs home insurance policy. When doing so they 
failed to include legal expenses insurance cover which shed previously held and wanted as 
part of her renewal. 
Swinton acknowledged theyd made a mistake and said this was down to a system error, 
which only appeared to affect Mrs R but not others more widely. Mrs R has since cancelled 
her cover with Swinton.
To apologise for their error, Swinton said they:
would consider funding a claim under the policy terms when the policy should have been 
active but wasnt, so Mrs R wouldnt lose out;
refunded their renewal administration fee of £35; 
waived the £40 administration fee applicable to the cancellation of the policy;
paid her £100 in compensation to reflect the inconvenience theyd caused her.
Our investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs R doesnt agree. She says Swinton havent paid her the £100 theyd promised or 
returned the renewal charge of £35. She also said she had trouble claiming on the policy for 
the period she should have been on cover for, despite Swintons assurances. 
Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with our investigator that the offer Swinton has 
already made is enough to put things right in this case. These are my reasons:
Swinton accept they made a mistake by not including legal expenses insurance cover 
when Mrs R renewed her policy. The offers theyve made to put things right accord with 
what this Service would award in those circumstances, so I dont think any further 
awards are necessary. In particular, I think the offer of compensation of £100 is 
adequately compensates Mrs R for the stress and inconvenience she was put to, to deal 
with the issue.
I appreciate that Mrs R says that Swinton havent yet paid her the amounts they said 
they were going to - namely £135 consisting of the offer of compensation and a refund of 
the renewal administration fee. If Swinton havent already paid these amounts, they 
should do so now.
Mrs R also says shes had trouble claiming on the policy for the period Swinton said they 
would cover. Based on what shes said, Im not sure whether this is a claim that falls into 
that specific period or indeed whether its something the policy covers at all. Thats 
something Swinton will need to consider separately under the specific policy terms that 
would have applied if the policy had renewed as it should have. If she hasnt already 
contacted them directly about this (rather than through the legal expenses policys claims 
handlers), Mrs R should now do so. If Mrs R remains unhappy with the outcome of her 
claim that will amount to a separate complaint. Swinton will need to consider that on its 
own merits, given its current promise to consider claims that would have been covered 
by the policy it should have put in place before it was cancelled by Mrs R.
Mrs R has suggested the system error Swinton says affected her policy renewal is likely 
to have affected others and not only her. She feels Swinton are wrong to suggest this 
was the case. As Im only looking at Mrs Rs complaint, I cant comment on mistakes that 
might have been made on other policies. So, I cant consider that issue. I can only look 
at the impact of Swintons mistake on Mrs R, which is what Ive done here.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited, trading 
as Swinton has already agreed to do to put things right is a fair way of resolving this 
complaint. So, my decision is that it will need to pay the compensation its offered and 
consider the legal expenses claim Mrs R has referred to once she refers it to them directly. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited, trading as 
Swinton and direct it to comply with my award of fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman