DRN-4308533
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Zurich Insurance PLC partly declined a claim they made 
on their multi-trip annual travel insurance policy after they had to cancel their cruise due to 
Mr Ms ill health.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was due to start on 24 November 2022. But Mr M was certified as 
medically unfit to travel shortly beforehand, so they cancelled the trip and made a claim on 
their travel policy.
Zurich settled the cancellation claim and Mr and Mrs M received payment for the full cost of 
the trip and car parking fees. Mr and Mrs M are not complaining about this part of their claim. 
They have also accepted Zurichs offer of £150 for delay in progressing the claim.
However, as Mr M has a kidney condition that requires dialysis three times a week, he had 
paid the travel company an upfront, non-refundable fee of £5,024 to receive this treatment 
during the cruise. Mr and Mrs M included this amount as part of their claim. But Zurich 
declined to pay it on the basis that these costs were not covered under the policys terms 
and conditions.
Our investigator thought that Zurich had acted fairly in declining the claim for pre-paid 
medical expenses. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the investigators view and so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on Zurich by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the requirement 
for Zurich to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a claim.
Mr M says he was clear about his condition when taking out the policy and so should have 
been told that the costs of dialysis were not covered. As our investigator has explained, it 
wasnt Zurich that sold the policy and so it is not responsible for the information that was 
provided at the point of sale. In this decision I will only be looking at whether Zurich acted 
fairly and reasonably in declining part of the claim.
Mr M says that pre-existing conditions should be fully covered. To be clear, as he had 
disclosed his kidney condition, it was covered in some circumstances. So, if he had become 
ill during the trip as a result of that condition, the policy would likely have paid out for any 
emergency medical treatment that he would have required as a result. But it would not have 
paid out for any routine or ongoing medical treatment as the policy specifically excludes:
cover for any medical condition or disability (pre-existing or otherwise) if: you know you 
will need medical treatment during your journey.
and:
medication and/or treatment which at the time of departure is known to be required or to be 
continued outside your home country.
The most relevant part of the policy in this case is the cancellation clause. This states that 
they would be covered:
Up to the amount shown in the summary of cover on pages 8 and 9 if your travel and 
accommodation arrangements, excursions, tours and activities are cancelled before your 
departure from your home country if this is your usual country of residence (including ski 
hire, ski school and lift passes for winter sports trips where the appropriate premium has 
been paid), which have not been used and which you have paid for or contracted to pay for, 
providing the cancellation is necessary and unavoidable (and is not a result of mere 
disinclination to commence your trip as arranged)
Additionally, under the General Exclusions heading, it states that cover is not provided for:
any other loss connected to the event you are claiming for unless we specifically provide 
cover under this policy.
Mr and Mrs M say they are covered for cancellation of travel and that the dialysis was a must 
have element of the travel as Mr M would die without it. I completely understand this point, 
but overall, Im not persuaded that dialysis would meet the usual definition of travel. It also 
couldnt be considered to be an activity under the terms and conditions, because the policy 
sets out a list of sports that are covered activities.
Based on the above policy wording, Im satisfied that the cost of dialysis is not covered 
under the cancellation part of the policy.
Mr M has explained that they were forced to curtail a cruise they were on in 2015 due to a 
death in the family. On that occasion their policy paid out for the dialysis sessions that Mr M 
didnt use. I dont know if Zurich was the underwriter on that occasion or the circumstances 
of why the claim was paid. However, in making this decision I am only looking at the terms 
and conditions of this particular policy and whether Zurich has acted in line with those terms 
when considering the claim.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M have found this situation very distressing  both with the 
loss of money and the prospect of not being able to go on holiday again, because they 
couldnt risk making a booking without specific cover for dialysis costs. I have a great deal of 
sympathy for their situation.
However, based on the available evidence, I am unable to conclude that Zurich has done 
anything wrong. It has assessed the claim in line with the terms of the policy. I therefore 
think it was fair and reasonable for it to decline the claim for pre-paid medical expenses.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman