DRN-3449452
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from Post Office Management Services 
Limited when he amended his travel insurance policy.
Mr G is represented by his father (Mr G2). 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr G took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a family holiday 
which was due to start on 20 June 2019. Only he was covered on the policy. Unfortunately, 
in June 2019 Mr Gs mother became unexpectedly and seriously unwell. She was 
hospitalised and wasnt well enough to travel. 
On 19 June 2019 Mr G2 phoned Post Office to ask to amend the dates of travel. He 
changed the dates of the policy on the basis the trip would be postponed. Mr G claimed on 
his policy, but the claim was declined by the underwriter of the policy. 
Mr G is unhappy with information he received during the call because he says, in summary, 
it wasnt made clear that he wouldnt be able to claim for cancellation if he amended the 
policy. Post Office said in their final response letter that the claim had been fairly declined. 
Unhappy, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and initially upheld the complaint. However, 
Post Office responded to her opinion and pointed out that Mr G2 had been specifically asked 
if there was any reason Mr G might need to claim, to which the answer was no. Post Office 
said they werent in a position to know Mr G might need to make a claim and give him 
information about the impact of the changes. Our investigator reviewed the complaint and 
decided not to uphold it. 
Mr G asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr G2 said that the investigator had 
initially upheld the complaint. He explained that at the time his wife was seriously ill in 
hospital and hed only spoken about possibly amending the policy. He said he wasnt trying 
to defraud anyone and answered the questions correctly.
So, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear about the circumstances Mr G and Mr G2 experienced in June 2019. 
Mr Gs mother was seriously unwell and in hospital with a rare and life-threatening condition. 
I accept what theyve told me about the distress and worry they were experiencing as a 
family at the time the relevant call with the Post Office took place. 
However, despite the very sad circumstances of this complaint, Im not upholding it. I say 
that because: 
I appreciate that Mr G2 was experiencing a lot of worry and stress when he 
contacted Post Office about the policy. But I think it would have been reasonable for 
him to mention that there was a potential claim on the policy when asked about it. His 
wife was in hospital at the relevant time and it seemed very unlikely the holiday would 
be going ahead. So, whilst I appreciate Mr G2 understandably had other things on 
his mind, I cant fairly say that Post Office did something wrong. As Post Office didnt 
know about the potential claim, they werent in a position to let Mr G2 know about the 
implications of amending the policy dates. 
Mr G2 says that he didnt commit to amending the policy as he said hed confirm 
whether this was the case. Ive listened to the call and I dont think that is what 
happened. I think Mr G2 was clear he wanted to amend the policy, but he just wasnt 
sure when theyd be travelling. The advisor needed to add the amended dates to the 
policy before the original trip date was due. And, as Ive outlined above, at no point 
during the call did Mr G2 mention why the trip was being postponed. To be clear, 
thats not to say Mr G2 was being fraudulent or being deliberately evasive. But, I 
dont think Post Office had the full picture when they were discussing the options with 
Mr G2. 
Ive taken into account that Mr Gs sister successfully claimed on her travel insurance 
policy  Post Office says the claim was paid in error. But, in any event, it doesnt 
mean that Mr Gs claim should be covered by Post Office. Based on the available 
evidence Im not persuaded that Post Office mis-led or gave Mr G2 incorrect 
information during the call. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman