DRN-3594388
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that he wasnt able to upload documents to Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading 
as Barclaycard, which resulted in Barclays closing his account.
What happened
Mr N opened a Barclays credit account and was asked by Barclays to provide proof of his 
income to allow the agreed credit limit of £6,000 to be authorised. Mr N tried to upload his 
income verification documents online, as instructed by Barclays, but couldnt do so. Mr N 
then discovered that Barclays had closed his account without giving any notice to him that 
they would do so. Mr N wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ns complaint. They confirmed that because Mr N hadnt provided 
proof of his income within 60 days of opening the credit account that the account had been 
closed as per their process.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, especially as hed tried to upload the 
documents but a technical error with Barclays systems had prevented him from doing so. 
So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Barclays had acted unfairly 
towards Mr N in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that when Mr N opened his Barclays account he was sent a series of 
emails by Barclays which explained that Mr N needed to provide proof of income within 45 
days of the account being opened and that if he didnt his account would be closed. These 
emails also gave Mr N instructions on how to upload the proof of income documents online, 
and provided alternatives if Mr N was having problems uploading the documents online:
You can take your documents into any Barclays Branch, send us a secure message, 
or give us a call on 0800 151 0900 and well be happy to help. Our lines are open 
24/7.
Mr N has confirmed that he did try to upload the income verification documents online as 
instructed, but that a technical error prevented him from doing so. 
Barclays have no record of Mr N attempting to upload the documents, but I accept that if 
there was a technical error as Mr N contends, it may have been the case that his attempts 
werent recorded. 
However, Mr N didnt provide the income verification documents to Barclays via the other 
channels available to him, and so I dont feel that I can reasonably censure Barclays for 
following the process that their email explained they would follow, which resulted in their 
closing Mr Ns account. 
Mr N has explained that he did try to call the number that Barclays provided, but couldnt get 
through. I appreciate that telephone numbers can be busy, but Mr N had 45 days to provide 
the required income verification documents to Barclays, and if it was the case that the 
telephone number was busy when Mr N tried to call it, I feel it was incumbent on Mr N to 
have either tried again at a different time or provided the documents via other channels  for 
instance, after contacting Barclays by secure message and asking for help in doing so.
Ultimately, the income verification documents were required by Barclays for them to be 
willing to allow the account to remain open. And Im satisfied that Barclays gave Mr N clear 
notice of this fact, as well as ample time and opportunity to provide those documents within 
the required timeframe. 
But Mr N didnt provide those documents, and he didnt contact Barclays to explain that he 
needed help from them. And so, I dont feel that it was unfair for Barclays to close the 
account as they did when the documents werent received by the date Barclays had told Mr 
N they were required by.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr N here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.  
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr N was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman