DRN-3961869
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain about the level of service provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) following a claim on their roadside assistance insurance policy. They want £8,000 to 
£10,000 compensation. 
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T and family members, including one who was very ill, were travelling abroad 
when their car broke down on a motorway. Mr T called IPA, but it wasnt able to locate a 
service provider to recover them. So IPA advised Mr T to call the police to recover them. But, 
after spending the night in the car, Mr T arranged his own recovery and car hire to his 
destination. The car was then repaired but ongoing travel arrangements had to be changed. 
He wanted IPA to cover his costs and pay him compensation. 
IPA said it tried to keep in contact with Mr T, but he didnt respond. It said it would have 
covered the recovery costs if the police had arranged this. It said it wouldnt cover both the 
car hire and recovery costs. But it did pay the recovery costs, half the car hire costs, as a 
gesture of goodwill, and the costs of changing arrangements to return home. IPA also paid 
Mr T £200 compensation for not being able to assist him. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought IPA 
had done all it could to assist Mr T at the time. She thought Mr T could have called the police 
or an ambulance for assistance if this was needed. And she thought IPAs compensation 
and recompense was fair and reasonable. 
Mr T and Mrs T said they didnt get the help they had paid for. They asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr T and Mrs T and their familys experience. They have described 
how they had to wait for hours in the cold with no assistance until they sorted this 
themselves. I can understand that this must have been very stressful at the time. 
Fortunately, there were no lasting repercussions for the ill family member. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr T and Mrs T have provided a timeline of their experience after they called IPA for help. 
They said they waited for four hours but no help arrived. 
Mr T thought this was because IPA couldnt locate them. But this isnt correct. IPAs notes 
show that it couldnt locate a network provider to come to them. So Im satisfied that IPA 
didnt provide them with the service it should have done under their policys terms and 
conditions. 
IPA then told Mr T to call the police for help. The police told Mr T they would come, but they 
didnt arrive after an hours waiting. I can understand Mr T and Mrs Ts upset, but I cant hold 
IPA responsible for the police not attending. 
IPA then told them to try and get transport and get to a hotel and it would reimburse them. 
But there were no local hotels and so the group had to spend an uncomfortable night in the 
cold car with no facilities or food. I can understand that this must have been distressing for 
them. But I cant reasonably hold IPA responsible for the location of the breakdown. 
Mr T then contacted family members and arranged for a tow truck that arrived four hours 
later and took them to a garage three hours away. A family member had a medical 
appointment, so Mr T hired a car to complete their journey. The car was repaired but return 
arrangements had to be changed and so Mr T incurred further costs. 
When a business makes a mistake, as IPA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Under the policys terms and conditions, I can see that IPA will provide recovery to the 
destination or car hire and accommodation. I can see that IPA explained this to Mr T at the 
time. Mr T arranged the recovery that IPA agrees it should have provided. So I think it 
reasonably reimbursed him for the costs of the towage, £408.16. 
IPA wasnt then responsible for the car hire costs as well. But it paid Mr T £375 for half the 
costs he incurred as a gesture of goodwill. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
The policy also provides cover for any rearranged return travel. And I can see that IPA 
reimbursed Mr T £202.99 for this. I think that covers Mr Ts costs and restores his position. 
IPA also paid Mr T and Mrs T £200 compensation for their trouble and upset caused by it not 
providing the service it should have. I can understand that the group were caused stress and 
had a very unpleasant experience. But I think this payment, and the gesture of goodwill 
payment for the car hire fairly compensate them for this. This is because its in keeping with 
our published guidance for this level of impact. So I dont require IPA to pay Mr T and Mrs T 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman