DRN-2019336
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) and also 
about the time taken to look into his complaint. He says the amount he receives from his 
personal pension is less than what he would have got if hed remained within SERPS. 
What happened
In March 1989 Mr C was advised to contract out of SERPS by Halifax, using a personal 
pension invested in the with-profits fund. It was noted that Mr C was 35 years old and had 
earnings of £22,365 at the time. 
In 2019 Mr C, having recently retired, became aware of media information about mis-sold 
SERPS pensions. So he contacted Halifax to raise a complaint about the advice hed been 
given in 1989. He said he thought he may have lost out financially as a result of the advice. 
In its response Halifax said that it thought its advice had been suitable for Mr Cs 
circumstances. It said Mr C was eligible to contract out of SERPS and it thought it had 
provided enough information for him to make an informed choice about what to do. Halifax 
said it did explain that future investment performance wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr C was unhappy with the time Halifax took to answer his complaint and the lack of 
documents it was able to locate from the point of sale. He remained unhappy with the 
outcome, so he brought his complaint to us.  
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said that, looking at the advice from 1989, he didnt think it was unsuitable. He also 
thought Halifax had tried to help Mr C during the complaint process and had kept him up to 
date. He said it wasnt surprising that Halifax couldnt locate the documents given the 
passage of time since the advice. He didnt think Halifax should compensate Mr C for the 
advice or the distress and inconvenience Mr C said hed been caused. 
Mr C didnt agree and he made the following points:
We hadnt addressed the issue of Halifax not being able to demonstrate sending him 
any documents, particularly an illustration of what he might get at retirement from 
contracting out of SERPS. 
There was no illustration despite him providing illustration notes  which he said hed 
received after hed signed the application form. So he said Halifaxs advice couldnt 
have been suitable If it hadnt provided an illustration.
We hadnt addressed the question of Halifax stating that the government had actively 
encouraged the option of contracting out of SERPS.
We hadnt addressed the issue of the impact of him moving to a new employer and 
the contributions being stopped. 
Halifax didnt attempt to determine Mr Cs attitude to risk  which he says would have 
been part of establishing suitable advice.
He would have expected Halifax to have retained the files from the original sale. 
Having reviewed Mr Cs submissions and clarified a number of points the investigator said:
The sale was made in 1989 and it was difficult to now say for certain what had 
happened. So hed considered this matter on the balance of probability and felt that 
it was more likely than not an illustration had been provided  particularly as it was a 
regulatory requirement and the sale wouldnt have progressed without one. 
Halifax confirmed its advice to Mr C in 1989, although it was true that the government 
of the day had encouraged qualifying individuals to considering contracting out of 
SERPS. 
The lack of consideration about the impact of stopping the plan if circumstances 
changed was a new complaint point  and would need to be considered by Halifax in 
the first instance. 
In 1989 the factors which mainly dictated eligibility to contract out were age and 
earnings. 
He was satisfied that Halifax had reached its decision fairly  taking into account all 
the available evidence. It wasnt our role to punish a business for not having files  
that would be a matter for the regulator.
Mr C didnt agree and reiterated his position. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman and so its been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, and I can see how strongly he feels 
about this matter  so Ill explain my reasons. In making my decision, I have to consider the 
advice standards that applied at the time the advice was given  over 30 years ago. At that 
time there wasnt any requirement for a provider to carry out a detailed fact find or provide a 
recommendation letter if it advised an individual to contract out of SERPS. 
The suitability of the advice to contract out of SERPS
When the Government decided to allow individuals to contract out of SERPS (and offered 
incentives to do so), it didnt give advice about who should be advised to remain in SERPS 
and those for whom it was anticipated that contracting out would be beneficial. So the main 
factors that an adviser used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off as a 
result of such advice were age, earnings and the investment horizon (time to retirement 
age).
One of the attractions of contracting out of SERPS at an early age is that the younger 
someone is, the longer there is until retirement. So there is a greater chance that a personal 
pension could perform better than SERPS over this longer period. The age at which Halifaxs 
advice whether to contract out or not changed, is known as the pivotal age. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form from 1989 which confirmed that Mr C was under the 
pivotal age for men at the time of the advice and had annual earnings above the relevant 
lower earnings limit. And there were many years before his intended retirement age. 
So Im satisfied that  based on what was known at the time, the advice was appropriate and 
provided Mr C with a reasonable prospect of providing better benefits at retirement. I dont 
think Halifax did anything wrong when it advised Mr C to contract out of SERPS.The risk profile of the investment within the pension
While I think the advice to contract out was suitable, Mr C is right to question whether the 
investment within the pension was appropriate for his attitude to risk. But while there isnt 
any evidence to demonstrate Mr Cs attitude to risk at the time  and while he was invested 
into one single fund, I dont think this meant there was a lack of diversification. The with-
profits fund invested in a wide range of assets. 
With the smaller range of funds available in 1989 providers often used the with-profits fund 
as a default fund particularly for inexperienced investors. It usually had a cautious to 
moderate risk profile and grew with the addition of bonuses rather than fluctuations in the 
value of the whole fund. So, taking into account when the advice was given, I dont think this 
was an unsuitable fund for Mr C to be invested in based on what was known about his 
circumstances.
 
Did Mr C have an OPS alternative?
SERPS was a top-up to the basic state pension that was built up through national insurance 
contributions. But it was possible to contract out of SERPS  either through a personal 
pension or an occupational pension scheme (OPS). So Ive considered whether Mr C had 
access to an OPS at the time. Halifax has said that Mr C did join an OPS in March 1989, but 
it didnt offer the opportunity to contract out of SERPS. I note Mr C did sign the initial 
application form, which stated that I confirm that either I am not a member of an 
occupational pension scheme other than a scheme providing benefits only in the event of my 
death or that I am a member of a contracted  in occupational pension scheme. 
So the only option available to him, if he wanted to contract out, was to divert his relevant 
national insurance contributions to a personal pension.
The lack of an illustration and other documents from the time
Mr C says Halifax stated that he would have been given various illustrations and brochures 
at the time, but as it cant now find that information, he says Halifax cant be sure what was 
given to him. He also says Halifax blamed the government for encouraging people to take up 
the contracting out option  but it was Halifax that gave the advice.
Due to the passage of time its not been possible to confirm which documents were received 
by Mr C, but I have seen a letter dated 30 March 1989 which confirmed a meeting between 
Mr C and a consultant from Halifax. It said, now have pleasure in enclosing technical details 
on personal pension. Ive also seen a letter dated 7 April 1989 which said, I refer to your 
application for a personal pension and now have pleasure in enclosing the policy document 
for your retention. So, on balance, Im satisfied Halifax did send information to Mr C and I 
think it would most likely have made him aware of the details relating to his plan. 
Mr C says that Halifaxs advice couldnt have been be suitable as he didnt receive an 
illustration  and the illustration notes hes retained were provided after the application was 
completed. 
But I think the fact that Mr C has retained some part of the original illustration would suggest 
that one was provided.  In any case the provision of an illustration doesnt determine whether 
or not the advice was suitable. It would have provided Mr C with more information about the 
sort of returns he could expect at various assumptive rates of return, but as Ive already said, 
based on what was known about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I think the advice to 
contract out was suitable and gave him a reasonable prospect of receiving more income 
than he would have got within SERPS. What couldnt have been foreseen at the time was 
the investment conditions over the next 30 years but thats all with the benefit of hindsight. Mr C says hes disappointed that, as a Halifax customer, it doesnt have the documents 
relating to the advice it gave in 1989. So he thinks this means that Halifaxs record keeping 
is poor  and combined with this took too long to investigate his complaint. Halifax hasnt 
been able to find all the relevant documents relating to this sale which, given it took place 
over 30 years ago, isnt surprising. Halifax has also confirmed that its policy retention 
changed in 1995 and many old branch files from the 1980s werent transferred onto the new 
systems. 
We wouldnt normally interfere with a businesss everyday commercial practice although I 
can understand the effect of the actions Halifax took in 1995 here. I know Mr C would like 
me to address this issue but its not for us to tell Halifax what documents to retain, thats a 
matter for Halifax to decide within the overall rules and regulations on document retention. 
Unfortunately, due to the time thats elapsed its simply the case that the documents are no 
longer available.
 
Halifaxs handling of Mr Cs complaint
I can see that Halifax did keep Mr C up to date during its investigation although the final 
response was provided more than eight weeks after the complaint was made. This was in 
some way excused by having to look for the documents  which ultimately werent available.
However, the rules which cover what activities we can investigate explain that some 
activities are non-regulated, so we wouldnt usually consider them as stand-alone 
complaints. Complaint handing isnt a regulated activity and as result I dont think we can 
consider Mr Cs concerns about how Halifax handled his complaint. 
And Mr C now also says Halifax didnt consider the impact of the charges on the pension if it 
was stopped because of a change in circumstances. He says this happened to him after 
eight years when he changed employer and joined its pension scheme. Halifax didnt 
consider this point in its final response as Mr C hadnt initially raised it. Our investigator has 
confirmed this to Mr C and advised him to raise the point with Halifax in the first instance if 
he remains unhappy. If Mr C isnt satisfied with that response, he can then bring the 
complaint back to us as a new matter for investigation.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman