DRN-3601377
The complaint
Ms W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reported her data to 
credit reference agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Ms W has had a current account with NatWest since 1992 and a credit card since 1995. She 
wanted to apply for a mortgage and found out that her credit file didnt include any 
information about her NatWest accounts. She is therefore having difficulties getting a 
mortgage  as lenders want to see her credit history. 
NatWest firstly wrote to Ms W to say her data was being shared with three CRAs. But then 
issued a final response to her complaint. In it, they apologised for so advising her  this was 
an error. NatWest went on to say that because Ms Ws accounts were opened in 1992 and 
1995, no data was being shared with the CRAs because they were opened so long ago  
before reporting started. NatWest said they could only start automatic reporting for new 
accounts that had been opened more recently. They sent Ms W consent forms to enable 
them to send data to the CRAs going forward. But  NatWest said they hadnt made an error 
and didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Ms W brought her complaint to us and our investigator said NatWest acted reasonably. He 
said lenders arent required by law to send data to CRAs; only to report accurate data if they 
do. It is now common practice to report information to CRAs, but accounts such as Ms Ws 
are often not reported. It is only new accounts that are automatically reported. He suggested 
that Ms W evidences her account statements to prospective lenders when applying for 
financial products. He said that NatWest made an error in their letter dated 1 April 2022 but 
put that right in their final response dated 26 April 2022  so he was satisfied there wasnt 
any loss due to the error.
Ms W didnt agree. She showed us her credit file  which showed no data from NatWest, or 
any other lender. She put forward several arguments which included 1) NatWest had a fair 
and reasonable obligation to report her data to CRAs 2) NatWest had a fair and reasonable 
obligation to advise her that her data wasnt being reported to CRAs. 3) the suggestion of 
showing lenders her paper statements wasnt viable in todays world  lenders want to see 
CRA data. 4) she referred to some similar decisions issued by our service which were 
upheld in favour of customers. She asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. And so 
 it has come to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help to start by explaining that we are an informal dispute resolution service which 
seeks to come to fair decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial 
business. As an ombudsman, its my role to look at the individual complaint thats been 
referred to me and make a decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the individual 
circumstances of that dispute. In doing so, we dont take sides and I have to consider what 
both sides have to say and the evidence they provide.
Ms W has directed me to several of our published decisions which she says reflect the 
circumstances of her complaint and so show what the outcome should be here. But our 
decisions arent intended to set precedents and each case is different. So, while Ive been 
mindful of what these decisions say  they dont mean that I am bound to reach the same 
decisions as other ombudsmen even if the circumstances of cases look to be the same. Im 
deciding this case on its own individual merits. That said, this is a finely balanced decision. 
And I want to assure Ms W that Ive carefully considered her submissions and the arguments 
put to us, and also asked NatWest for more information. 
Our investigator and NatWest are correct  reporting to CRAs only started in the late 1990s. 
And from around that time, new customers to banks consented to the sharing of their 
information with CRAs  as part of the account opening process. But what that means is that 
Ms W didnt give that consent when she opened her two accounts with NatWest in the early 
1990s. And therefore, her data has never been shared.
So, the starting point here is that NatWest havent made an error in not reporting Ms Ws 
data to the CRAs  that is clear. It is also the case that there isnt an obligation to report data 
to CRAs  it is a voluntary process. But equally, of course - all major lenders do report such 
information as matter of course. 
The crux of my decision comes down to whether it would then be fair to direct NatWest to 
send backdated information on Ms Ws accounts to the CRAs, even though it hasnt made a 
mistake and there is no obligation on it to do so. We asked NatWest several questions about 
the practicality and cost of that. In particular I considered what Ms W had to say about a 
decision issued by this service in 2018  which she highlighted to us. That decision was 
upheld in favour of the customer. But that case was decided against a different business and 
based on what was fair and reasonable in its own individual circumstances, in the same way 
I am deciding this case here.
NatWest have argued that since they havent made an error  it wouldnt be fair to tell them 
to provide Ms Ws data to the CRAs. And theyve told us it would be a manual exercise, 
costing thousands of pounds  being NatWests costs and fees payable to the CRAs. Its 
important for me to take both sides of a dispute like this into account and what NatWest is 
saying here persuades me that there are likely to be practical implications in asking them to 
do what Ms W wants in the circumstances here.
So Ive balanced that against why Ms W has told us she thinks that NatWest should do that 
here. I do realise the benefit this is likely to have for her in applying for lending moving 
forward. But I dont think NatWest can solely be held liable for her lack of wider credit history 
here. The factors that lenders will consider are wide ranging and the conduct of accounts 
such as the ones Ms W has with NatWest might help her, but this isnt the only thing lenders 
would likely consider. I accept that Ms W doesnt have many other accounts with providers  
one way of viewing that would be that she is being disadvantaged by being a long standing 
and loyal customer of NatWest. But another way would be that her credit file reflects her 
choice not to have held many accounts over the years. So I dont think this is a reason alone 
that means I can tell NatWest to do what she wants.
All of this means that, in the individual circumstances here  I dont think itd be fair, 
reasonable, or proportionate to tell NatWest that it needs to manually report the historic 
conduct of Ms Ws accounts with it in the way she wants. It hasnt made a mistake by not 
doing so and nor is it acting unreasonably in how its responded to her complaint about this.Moving on to NatWests letter dated 1 April 2022  they originally told Ms W that her data 
was being shared with CRAs. NatWest admitted that was an error and put the facts right in 
their final response on 26 April 2022  shortly afterwards. So  I think that was a reasonable 
thing for NatWest to do.
I know Ms W will find this disappointing, but Ive thought long and hard about what is a fair  
and reasonable outcome is here  for both parties. She now has several solutions: she can 
show prospective lenders her NatWest statements (but I accept this isnt very useful to those 
lenders); she can file a notice of correction at the CRAs to explain her situation; and 
NatWest might issue Ms W with a letter to say why her data hasnt been reported and outline 
her account conduct over the years  but without including detailed data in it.
I accept that Ms W will find those solutions as impractical. But in not upholding her 
complaint, I think they are fair ways forward to suggest in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman