DRN-2534708
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc closed his bank account without explaining why.
What happened
On 17 August 2020 Bank of Scotland gave Mr S notice of its intention to close his bank 
account. Bank of Scotland gave Mr S 60 days notice that his account would close and an 
additional 15 days to ensure its letter had time to reach him. Bank of Scotland also said that 
in 2016 it had taken the step of ending its banking relationship with Mr S. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Bank of Scotland had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and that its decision to close his 
account was reasonable. Mr S asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S would like more detail to understand the reasoning behind Bank of 
Scotlands decision to end its banking relationship. But the account terms that were in place 
when he opened the most recent bank account say Bank of Scotland can close an account 
by giving two months notice in writing. The terms dont say that Bank of Scotland have to 
give a specific reason. I can see Bank of Scotland gave Mr S notice of its intentions, in line 
with the terms. 
In this case, Bank of Scotlands final response to Mr S complaint says its decision to close 
his account was made in line with a previous decision, taken in 2016, to end its banking 
relationship with him. Whilst I understand Mr S wants a more detailed explanation, I think 
Bank of Scotland has confirmed its position and Im satisfied, in this case, its decision is fair. 
As Ive said above, the information Ive seen shows Bank of Scotland acted in line with its 
terms. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im satisfied Bank of Scotland has dealt with his complaint 
fairly so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman