DRN-4237174
The complaint
Mrs G has complained to us about the way in which Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as VWFS Financial Services (VWFS) administered an agreement she 
entered into with it. And she told us VWFS also recorded incorrect information on her credit 
file.
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs G was supplied with a used car using a hire purchase agreement 
provided by VWFS. Mrs G paid an advance payment of £4,000. This was to be followed by 
monthly payments of £250.77. The final payment is set out in the agreement as £13,275.
The monthly payments were to be taken by direct debit from Mrs Gs bank account. It is not 
in dispute between the parties that Mrs Gs sort code was incorrectly recorded on the direct 
debit mandate. So when VWFS tried to take the agreed payments, the direct debit was 
rejected. 
Mrs G told us that she received a reminder letter in September 2022 from VWFS. She told 
us she ignored this because she knew she had signed the direct debit mandate authorising 
VWFS to take payments from her account.
The next direct debits due in October and November were also rejected. Mrs G told us that 
she received letters about these from VWFS, which she ignored. However when she 
received a further letter in November she telephoned VWFS. This was on 16th November 
2022. Mrs G and the representative from VWFS discussed the incorrect sort code. It was 
corrected and they agreed an additional monthly payment of £83.59 to clear her arrears. 
In early December 2022 VWFS wrote to Mrs G to say that her account was still three 
months worth in arrears and there was an outstanding amount of £752.31. This 
communication to Mrs G seemed to be made with no knowledge of the 16th November 
conversation. Unhappy with this, Mrs G complained to VWFS on 12th December 2022. 
There followed an apology from VWFS to say the correspondence had been sent by 
mistake.  
VWFS investigated and on 12th January 2023 they sent Mrs G their final response. It said, in 
summary that it had looked at her complaint and found an administration error which meant 
that the September payment hadnt been taken. VWFS said it had amended adverse 
information on her credit file about this payment. It noted that she was now in arrears in the 
amount of £1003.08. It stated that she was required to clear the arrears immediately. It said 
she had remained in arrears from November, and it would continue to notify that information 
to credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Mrs G was unhappy and brought her complaint to our service. She told us that VWFS 
caused a lot of stress and she was unhappy that missed payments had been recorded on 
her credit file. She told us it made it more difficult to get other loans and had made credit less 
affordable for her. She told us the whole scenario was not her fault. And she told us she now 
had to find £1000 which she thought had been already taken out of her account. She was 
also unhappy with the errors VWFS made when it communicated with her. 
VWFS then conducted an internal review of its handling of Mrs Gs complaint. It sent a 
follow-up saying that it had found it made an error in December 2022. As a result of this, the 
December direct debits were rejected. It apologised for this and said it would remove all 
adverse information on Mrs Gs credit file up to and including December 2022. It also said 
Mrs G was still in arrears on the account, but it would monitor this on a monthly basis and 
remove the adverse information.
VWFS said as it had failed to recognise this error in its initial final response, it wished to offer 
Mrs G a goodwill gesture of £150 as an apology. 
Mrs G said she was unhappy with the offer, and was still unhappy about the situation and 
that adverse information remained on her credit file for January and February 2023. Mrs G 
remained unhappy about VWFSs overall handling of the situation. She said she had been 
declined a loan elsewhere because of what happened. And she said she thought VWFS 
should pay her £3,000 to reflect what happened.
Our investigator considered all the evidence and issued an opinion. She said, in summary, 
that she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said it was reasonable to say that 
because Mrs G signed the direct debit mandate, she agreed with the information entered on 
it. She also said that VWFS was correct to notify the missed payments information to the 
CRAs. And she said she thought the offer made by VWFS of £150 was reasonable.
Mrs G remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into regulated consumer credit 
contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs 
Gs complaint against VWFS.Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. Where I havent mentioned 
something above, this doesnt mean I havent looked at it. Rather Ive summarised the main 
evidence above which reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to reassure Mrs G 
and VWFS that I have carefully considered all of the points raised and all of the evidence 
provided.
Arrears 
Mrs G has told us that she regards the current situation as being caused by VWFS. She has 
explained fully, that in her view, this is because VWFS failed to take payments when it 
should have done.  She told us:
as far as Im concerned as to the best of my knowledge I set up a direct debit with the firm 
at the beginning of the contract and it is their responsibility to ensure all the information was 
correct.
She also told us that the direct debit:
 was recorded inaccurately and I signed this assuming it was correct.
Having considered the paperwork in this case, the incorrect direct debit details were 
recorded on both the credit agreement and the direct debit mandate. Based on the 
information available, its impossible to determine precisely how the error in the sort code 
was made. But significantly, both the direct debit mandate and the agreement were signed 
by Mrs G. In particular, Ive noted that the bank account details were set out clearly in the 
finance agreement at the top of page two. 
Given that Mrs G signed both these documents I think its reasonable that she would have 
read them before doing so, and I think it would have been reasonable for her to have noticed 
that her sort code wasnt right. So no matter how the sort code came to be recorded wrongly, 
I dont think it automatically follows that the build-up of arrears is solely a result of VWFSs 
errors. 
Mrs G has told us that she ignored four letters from VWFS. She told us she received one 
letter in September, saying she had missed a payment. Then she got another letter in 
October and two letters in November. It was then (in November) that she contacted VWFS.
Im satisfied that it would have been reasonable for Mrs G to take notice of these letters. It 
follows that if Mrs G hadnt ignored the letters the arrears could have been lessened or 
avoided entirely. 
VWFS has admitted it made administrative errors in September and December 2022, and in 
terms of the distress and inconvenience this caused Mrs G, Ive covered that below. 
Whatever happened, it isnt in dispute that Mrs G didnt make the payments as detailed 
above, but she did have use of the car. So I think its fair and reasonable that this amount is 
owed to VWFS. Its also worth pointing out that Mrs G hasnt lost out financially here  as the 
funds werent taken these will either be available to her, or she will have had the use of 
them.Credit file
Next, Ive looked at Mrs Gs complaint that VWFS incorrectly notified information about her 
arrears to the CRAs. 
VWFS recently told us it would be happy to remove all adverse information on the account 
up till December 2022. I think this is reasonable to reflect the administrative errors VWFS 
made. 
I think there may be some confusion between VWFS recording late payments and recording 
arrears on Mrs Gs account. VWFS has explained Mrs Gs credit file will show that the 
account is in arrears until these are paid off. As above, Im satisfied its reasonable these 
arrears are due.
In looking at this issue we asked Mrs G to provide us with her full credit report. She told us 
she didnt wish to do so. Instead she provided us with some screenshots of a summary from 
a credit scoring app. 
This states: 
You have 1 account with at least 2 unsettled debts.
ACCOUNTS IN ARREARS 
Volkswagen 
14th Feb 2023
Mrs G told us that she thinks the arrears shouldnt have been notified. I dont agree that this 
is correct for the following reason. The Information Commissioners Office issues guidance 
and principles for the reporting of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at CRAs. Ive 
carefully considered these principles and in this case Im satisfied VWFS has acted in 
accordance with them. They indicate:
Depending on the period and amount of the arrangement, arrears may continue to be 
reported. Such temporary arrangements may last for some time but are generally expected 
to revert to the contracted terms at some future point. For such accounts arrears may 
continue to be calculated in accordance with the contracted terms.
So in this case according to best practice VWFS was correct to give the information to the 
CRAs. 
New matters
Mrs G has also raised questions about wanting a new financial arrangement to make it 
manageable for her to pay her arrears, and about an email VWFS sent her saying shed 
recently missed a payment. These appear to be new matters that have not been considered 
by VWFS in its final response to Mrs G, nor investigated as part of this complaint. Under the 
rules I must follow, this would have needed to have happened in order for me to look at 
these issues too. It follows that I am unable to look at these matters in this decision.Distress and inconvenience
Mrs G has told us that she wishes us to award her £3000 to reflect the errors made by 
VWFS, the impact on her credit file and the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
But as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that its likely that most or all of the arrears, and the 
associated distress, could have been avoided if Mrs G hadnt ignored the letters she was 
sent. Secondly, having looked at everything, I think that VWFS acted correctly in giving the 
information it gave to CRAs.
In looking at the mistakes that VWFS has made, it admitted that it made administrative 
errors in September and December 2022. In addition, Ive noted that the final response letter 
that VWFS sent Mrs G also contained an error. It said she was expected to repay the arrears 
immediately. However, I can see from her statement of account sent to us by VWFS that a 
direct debit had already been set up for the additional monthly payment to clear the arrears, 
which was the amount I referred to above, of £83.59.
Putting things right
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied that the errors by VWFS caused Mrs G distress and 
inconvenience. And overall, Im satisfied the £150 already offered by VWFS is the right 
amount to reflect this. So considering everything here, I dont think that VWFS has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in Mrs Gs case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct VWFS to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Katrina Hyde
Ombudsman