DRN-4114522
The complaint
Mr P complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited undervalued his van when he
claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P bought a Luton van and insured it with Haven. A few months later his van was stolen, it
was then later recovered by the Police. Haven collected the van and assessed it. It initially
said it could be repaired but then said it would deal with the claim as a total loss. After some
negotiation Haven ultimately offered Mr P £19,300 excluding VAT as the market value for his
van. Mr P is VAT registered and so Haven arent required to pay VAT under the policy terms
and conditions.
Mr P didnt think this was enough and complained. He said hed bought the van a few
months earlier for £25,995 excluding VAT and so didnt agree it had depreciated to what
Haven thought it was worth. Mr P also said hed bought it from a manufacturing garage, and
his van had a two-year manufacturing warranty on it. He sent Haven details of similar vans
for sale to support a higher value.
Haven maintained its position that it had fairly valued Mr Ps van. It had searched online and
found similar vans for less than it had valued Mr Ps at. Unhappy with Havens handling of
his claim Mr P referred the complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2023 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say that if Haven deem his van a total loss, it will
pay him the market value. It defines market value as The cost of replacing Your Vehicle with
one of similar make, model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and
condition of Your Vehicle.
Our service doesnt value vans. Instead, we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
In Mr Ps case two of the guides are unable to value his van. For the two which do value his
van, neither of them takes into account that his van has what is known as a Luton back to
it, or that it has a rear tail lift. Im therefore not satisfied theyre a fair way to value Mr Vs van
in this case.
I can see Haven looked at three adverts for similar vans which all had significantly higher
mileage than Mr Ps. I asked our Investigator to send Haven the adverts for manufacturer
approved used vans like Mr Ps (which Mr P had provided) and explain that I was more
persuaded by these. The adverts Mr P provided ranged from older vans to newer ones.
From reviewing these there are seven adverts which are either a year newer or a year older
than Mr Ps. These are all manufacturing approved used Luton vans with a tail lift.
Unfortunately, of the adverts Mr P provided, there werent any which are the same year as
Mr Ps.
Haven replied and didnt agree and provided two more adverts. These adverts are for the
same year and similar mileage as Mr Ps van. But neither of them is the same type of van, I
say this as one is a long wheelbase and the other a short wheelbase. Mr Ps van was a
medium wheelbase. One of the adverts also doesnt have a tail lift and neither of them are
manufacturer used approved, as Mr Ps van was. Im therefore more persuaded by the
adverts Mr P has provided. When reviewing these and looking at the values of the ones a
year newer and a year older, the average value is £28,921, excluding VAT. Im therefore
more persuaded by Mr Ps argument that this is the fair market value of his van. Therefore,
Haven should pay £28,921 excluding VAT as the market value of Mr Ps van. Haven is
entitled to deduct from this sum the policy excess and anything it has already paid in
settlement of the market value of Mr Ps van. To anything outstanding it then pays it should
also add 8% simple interest per year, calculated from the date of the interim payment until
the date of settlement. This is to compensate him for not having the money.
I can see that by Haven incorrectly valuing Mr Ps van its caused him a great deal of
distress and inconvenience. Hes had to do market research and also make do with a lower
settlement than he should have had. Haven should pay Mr P £250 compensation for the
unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused.
Haven and Mr P both accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Haven and Mr P accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision. My final decision is that 
I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P:
1. £28,921 excluding VAT, as the market value of his van, subject to any applicable
policy excess. 8% simple interest per year should be added to the additional amount
it pays, calculated from the date of the interim payment until the date of settlement.
2. £250 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman