DRN-3714094
The complaint
Miss B complains that Next Retail Ltd (Next) irresponsibly granted her credit for a 
catalogue account that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss B entered into an agreement with Next to have access to credit with a Next catalogue 
account in January 2007. The credit limit was increased seven times between February 
2008 and December 2016, going from £800 up to £3,000  although in December 2015 it 
had been increased to £5,000, before being lowered later. In total, the credit limit was also 
decreased on three occasions during this period, in May 2008, August 2015 and 
September 2016. 
In June 2017 Miss B contacted Next about being in financial difficulty and agreed a payment 
plan which last for several months. 
As the jurisdiction of this service to look at complaints about affordable lending begins after 
6 April 2007, we cannot look into the account opening or any credit limit increases that took 
place before then. 
Miss B says that Next didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it granted her 
increased credit limits. She says if it had carried out proper checks, it would have seen that it 
wasnt affordable for her. 
Our adjudicator said Next shouldnt have increased Miss Bs credit limit in December 2016. 
As Next doesnt agree, saying it acted responsibly in the way it handled the account, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Next needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Next should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Credit limit increases/decreases between February 2008 and September 2016
Ive seen that Miss B has provided us with some bank statement information but only from 
2013. She has also sent us a P60 for the year ended March 2013. 
I agree with our adjudicator that based on the available information, the four credit limit 
increases from February to July 2008, with the credit limit going up to £3,600, appear likely 
to have been affordable. Ive seen that Next completed credit checks and I havent seen any 
evidence of significant adverse information about Miss Bs financial situation during this time. 
But I still think it would have been proportionate for Next to have taken steps to find out more 
about any changes to Miss Bs income as well as the level of committed expenditure she 
had at the point of each of these increases. 
Looking at the credit limit increase up to £5,000 in March 2013  the highest that Next offers 
its customers  I again think it would have been proportionate for Next to have taken steps to 
find out more, this time verifying Miss Bs income and getting some idea of her committed 
expenditure. I cant be sure exactly what Next would have found out if it had asked. In the 
absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the 
information contained in Miss Bs bank statements as to what would most likely have been 
disclosed. This has also been backed up by the P60 Miss B sent us. Miss B was receiving a 
monthly income of around £2,400 at that time. I also note she appears to have had a debt 
payment arrangement at this time, making a payment of around £400 in December 2012 and 
January 2013. She was also making repeated use of gambling sites, spending a significant 
proportion of her income on them, especially immediately prior to the increase, she appears 
to have been managing the account and her general financial situation without any 
noticeable difficulty. 
I also think Next should have carried out the same checks in December 2015, when Miss Bs 
credit limit was again returned to £5,000. Ive reviewed some bank statements from this 
point. I can also see that Miss B appears to have been in a debt management plan in place 
to which she was making monthly payments of around £200. Her monthly income had 
increased to around £2,900 and she was again making use of gambling sites. She was still 
able to manage her day to day living expenses and appeared able to fund her gambling out 
of her disposable income. And given that she was still managing her account within the 
credit limit and not incurring additional interest or charges as a result of the limit increase, I 
cant see that this increase had caused her to lose out financially. 
December 2016 credit limit increaseIn December 2016, Next increased Miss Bs credit limit back up to £3,000. By now, although  
Miss B had a monthly income of around £3,000, she was making very heavy use of 
gambling sites, spending around £2,000 per month in the three months prior to the increase. 
Whilst she did not go into her overdraft, and was still left with a limited amount of disposable 
income, I think this level of gambling showed a real risk that it was getting out of hand, with 
Miss Bs behaviour clearly demonstrating that she was using an increasing amount of her 
disposable income. I think in view of Miss Bs credit history with Next, taking into account the 
three limit decreases shed had  the previous one being a reduction from £5,000 to £1,000 
due to concerns about her account use - Next should have taken steps to once again verify 
Miss Bs income and also find out more about her committed expenditure and living costs. I 
cant be sure exactly what Next would have found out if it had asked. But in the absence of 
anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information 
contained in Miss Bs bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
I therefore think that had Next carried out better checks at this point, its likely it would have 
realised that the increased credit limit wasnt something that Miss B could demonstrate was 
affordable to her on a sustainable basis, with a real risk that she could be pushed into 
financial difficulty and that the additional credit was therefore unlikely to be increasingly 
affordable for her.  Because of this, I think the increase to the credit limit in December 2016 
was unfair and it follows that any subsequent increases should not have been offered had 
adequate checks been carried out at this point.
It follows that I agree with our adjudicator that Next ought not to have increased Miss Bs 
credit limit in December 2016. 
Putting things right  what Next needs to do
Next shouldnt have increased Miss Bs credit limit to £3,000 in December 2016. Next 
therefore needs to do the following. 
Rework Miss Bs account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account for balances over £1,000, being the previous credit limit 
in place. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, Next should contact Miss B to arrange an affordable repayment 
plan for the account. Once Miss B has repaid the outstanding balance, it should 
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file from 
24 December 2016 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss B, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Next should also remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit 
file from 24 December 2016 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Next to take off tax from this interest. Next must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require Next Ltd to pay compensation as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman