Page 1  of 
3 The complaint  
Mr F and Ms C  complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim on their 
legal expenses insurance policy.  
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.  
What happened  
Mr F and Ms C had problems with their neighb our, which included anti -social behaviour 
and threats. The neighbour was a tenant and they said the neighbours landlord wasnt 
dealing with their concerns properly. They also said the neighbour was in breach of 
restrictive covenants and were worried that their property was losing value due to these 
issues.  
In June 2019 Mr F and Ms C made a claim on their policy to cover the legal costs of a 
nuisance claim against their neighbour. Fairmead logged the claim and then asked for more 
information about the prob lems. Mr F and Ms C provided photos and other details.  
Mr F and Ms C chased Fai rmead for a reply in July 2019. They were told the claim was 
awaiting review. They then provided more evidence relating to the problems they were 
experiencing. On 15 July Fairmead said the claim would be covered and passed the case to 
a panel firm of solic itors to assess.  
On 30 July 2019 Mr F and Ms C contacted Fairmead to say the solicitors had told them the 
breach of restrictive covenant wasnt covered by their policy. In reply Fairmead confirmed 
that a breach of covenant wasnt covered under the policy and said the neighbours actions 
would have to amount to an actionable trespass, nuisance or damage to their property for 
cover to be provided.  
Mr F and Ms C complained, saying they believed Fairmead was looking for reasons to 
reject the claim. In its fin al response to the complaint Fairmead said the solicitors had 
advised that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success, and that was why cover 
was withdrawn. It acknowledged there had been a delay in arranging the legal assessment 
and gave compen sation of £75 for this.  
Mr F and Ms C were unhappy with the response. They said the crux of the matter was 
that Fairmead and the solicitors didnt consider the presence of restrictive covenants, 
which specifically prohibit nuisance and the other issues th ey were facing. But Fairmead 
didnt change its decision and said it was entitled to rely on the legal advice. So Mr F and 
Ms C brought the complaint to our service.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said:  
cover would only be provided if the claim was likely to be  successful;
the legal advice was that the case wasnt likely to  succeed;
Fairmead was entitled to rely on that  advice;
DRN-2855661Page 2  of 
3   when Mr F and Ms C raised further points abo ut the restrictive covenants, those 
were considered but Fairmead confirmed that a claim for breach of restrictive 
covenants wasnt covered under the policy  terms.  
 
The investigator also thought the compensation of £75 was a fair reflection of the fact there 
had been a short delay dealing with the assessment.  
 
Mr F and Ms C disagreed with the investigator and made further comments but she 
didnt change her view. So th ey have requested an ombudsmans decision. They say:  
 they are not claiming for breach of covenant  the point is that this is a way for 
solicitors to take action for incidents such as nuisance that are  covered;  
 the investigator ignored all their eviden ce and simply accepted what Fairmead said  
even though the solicitors have agreed that they have suffered from nuisance 
behaviour such as  harassment;  
 there is a conflict of interest as the panel firm of solicitors is part of the same group of 
companies as Fairmeads claims  handlers.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
The policy includes cover for  
 
An event which causes or could cause physical damage to your home or any nuisance or 
trespass which affects or will affect your owning or living in your home.  
 
So for cover to be provided, Mr F and Ms C would need to be bringing a claim against their 
neighbour that falls within this description  in other words, a claim for physical damage, 
trespass or nuisance. A claim against someone for breach of restrictive covenants wouldnt 
in itself be covered, unless the breach also amounts to trespass or nuisance,  or led to 
physical to damage.  
 
The policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which means it must be more 
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. This is common in legal expenses 
policies and means insurers dont have to m eet costs for claims that are unlikely to be 
successful.  
 
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong.  
 
Fairmead did  pass the claim to solicitors to assess. The solicitors advised that the claim 
wasnt likely to be successful. The advice is detailed and sets out the reasons for this 
conclusion, which included:  
 The incidents of noise being caused by the neighbour were not severe enough to 
amount to a noise  nuisance.  
 There had been a couple of instances of trespass. But the usual remedy for trespass 
is an injunction to stop it happening. As neither incident was ongoing they wouldnt 
be able to obtain an  injunction.  
 Other issues raised by Mr F and Ms C were not serious enough to amount to 
a nuisance.  
 The liability of the neighbour s landlord to them was limited and there were no 
grounds for them to include the landlord in any legal  action.  Page 3  of 
3 The solicitors also considered some incidents of harassment but said these were similar in 
nature to the other incidents and wouldnt amount to a legal nuisance. Harassment itself 
wasnt covered under the policy terms.  
Mr F and Ms C say one of the key poi nts is that when they raised the issue of breach of 
restrictive covenants, they were just told the policy doesnt cover claims for breach of 
covenant. And they say that misses the point - they are not claiming for breach of covenant 
as such, but pointing o ut that this is a way for solicitors to take action for incidents such as 
nuisance that are covered. This was, however, considered by the solicitors. And they said 
the neighbours actions had to amount to a trespass, nuisance or damage to the property for 
cover to be provided, and the advice was that the actions did not amount to trespass, 
nuisance or damage.  
I appreciate that this must have been a very difficult situation for Mr F and Ms C. But they 
are only entitled to cover if the claim meets the requir ements in the policy terms. Im satisfied 
Fairmead was entitled to rely on the legal advice and to reject the claim in reliance on that 
advice. Although the panel firm of solicitors may be part of the same group of companies as 
the claims handlers, they ar e a separate independent firm, bound to act in accordance with 
their own professional standards and to give their advice accordingly. The fact that they are 
part of the same group as the claims handlers doesnt mean there was a conflict which 
prevented the m from being able to do that.  
Fairmead explained to Mr F and Ms C that if they disagreed with the legal advice they could 
obtain their own legal opinion, and if that advice supported their claim Fairmead would 
reconsider the claim. Its not for me to revi ew the legal advice itself or the way the solicitors 
dealt with that; Im only considering how Fairmead dealt with the insurance claim. If Mr F and 
Ms C do provide their own legal advice then Fairmead can consider that. As it stands, Im 
satisfied the deci sion to reject the claim was in line with the policy terms and was fair.  
With regard to the compensation, having looked at the delay and the short timescale 
involved, I agree that was a fair amount to reflect the distress caused to Mr F and Ms 
C. 
My final decision  
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.  
Peter Whiteley  
Ombudsman  