DRN-2450991
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Advantage, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr E. The car here was 
around five years old and had completed about 72,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect the engine to fail only four months into 
the agreement.
The relevant legislation explains that when a car fails within the first six months it is to be 
assumed the fault was present at the point of supply unless the business can demonstrate 
otherwise. Here I can see that the business accepted responsibility for the fault. 
The relevant legislation allows them one opportunity to repair the fault and they therefore 
replaced the engine at no cost to Mr E. Whilst theres a dispute over the age of the second-
hand engine that was fitted I dont think theres evidence the engine was any older than the 
one that had failed. So, Im persuaded it was fair for the business to replace the engine with 
the one they did.
If the repair fails the relevant legislation says that it may be reasonable for the consumer to 
then reject the car. But I have to consider what is fair and reasonable and I think rejection at 
this point would be disproportionate and unfair.
I say that because I am persuaded, on the evidence provided, that the subsequent failure 
was most likely due to the need for an adjustment to the timing chain. Whilst Mr E has 
suggested the delay in the garage repairing the car is indicative of a more complex issue I 
am not persuaded theres enough evidence of that. I noted that the dealership subcontracted 
the engine replacement to another garage, and I think its likely some of that delay will relate 
to the need to transfer the car back to them. And Ive not been provided with any further 
evidence to demonstrate the dealerships explanation of what went wrong with the repair is 
incorrect.
As Im persuaded the subsequent failure was merely due to the need to adjust the timing 
chain and because Advantage have made a reasonable offer to pay for an independent 
inspection, I dont think it would be fair to ask them to reject the car.
But, Advantage should compensate Mr E for the lack of use hes experienced and for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Putting things right
Mr E didnt have his car for a couple of weeks whilst the dealership repaired it and its fair 
that the business compensate him for that lack of use by refunding £150 - about half of a 
monthly finance instalment.
They should also pay him £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused by having to take the car to be repaired and having to make further 
arrangements when the car broke down again. 
Advantage have asked if this redress can be deducted from the arrears that Mr E has 
amassed on his finance agreement. But the redress is for a fault with the car and the arrears 
on the account are unrelated. So, they should be paid to Mr E directly. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Advantage Finance 
Ltd to:
refund £150 in respect of the loss of use Mr E has experienced;
pay Mr E £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman