DRN-3249449
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCIFS).
 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with RCIFS. The 
term of the agreement was 60 months and the purchase price was £8,438. The car was 
registered in June 2016, so it was about four years old and had travelled around 44,529 
miles when it was supplied to Mr T.
Mr T says that on 6 June 2021 his car broke down. Mr T says he recovered the car to a 
garage who Ill refer to as garage A. An invoice provided by Garage A confirms a diagnostic 
was carried out and also confirms the engine damage was a result of a failed cambelt. The 
invoice also noted the mileage as being 54,889. 
Mr T says Garage A suggested he take the car to a manufacturer dealer as the car required 
a new engine. Mr T says the manufacturer dealership, who Ill refer to as MD, advised they 
wouldnt assist with the costs of repair because the previous services carried out on the car 
hadnt been completed by a garage within their authorised dealer network. RCIFS also 
confirmed this in their final response to Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T says he recovered the car to another garage, which Ill refer to as Garage B, where the 
cars engine was replaced along with some other engine related parts. An invoice from 
Garage B dated 9 August 2021 confirms Mr T paid £3,789 for the repairs. Mr T says he was 
without the car from the start of June to August 2021 while the car was being checked and 
repaired. Mr T told us hes experienced no further issues with his car since the repair. 
In August 2021 Mr T complained to RCIFS about the issues with his car. In September 2021 
RCIFS provided their final response. They didnt uphold the complaint. They advised that as 
the car was outside of the 60 day warranty when it broke down, and that the previous 
services were not carried out by an authorised dealer, they werent liable to support with the 
repair costs. RCIFS however, offered one months payment to Mr T as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with their response Mr T brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Ts concerns and felt that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
felt that RCIFS hadnt acted fairly as she considered the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr T  
Unhappy with the investigators view, RCIFS asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
RCIFS provided some further comments to be considered by the ombudsman. In summary, 
they felt that in acquiring a used car that was outside of the manufacturers warranty, with no 
service history and with the mileage it had, Mr T was taking a risk by doing so. They also 
couldnt see how there was a defect at the point of supply as Mr T had driven around 10,000 
miles before the car broke down. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. RCIFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that RCIFS supplied Mr T with a used car that had travelled around 
44,500 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there 
may be signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at 
£8,438 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a particularly old vehicle. So, I think that a 
reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any major issues for a 
reasonable period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the timing belt which 
caused damage to the engine. This is apparent from the invoice provided from Garage A 
detailing the cause of the damage, and the confirmation from RCIFS that MD had also 
diagnosed the failure of the timing belt. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive 
considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
When Mr Ts car broke down his car had travelled around 10,000 miles, the invoice from 
Garage A had the mileage recorded at 54,899, which confirms this. In his complaint email to 
us, and on the phone to our investigator, Mr T says the car was supplied with a full-service 
history. RCIFS, said in an email to us dated 18 January 2022 that the car had no service 
history. From the evidence provided Im persuaded the car did have a service history. 
Although RCIFS said it didnt, they also confirmed that MD advised the cars previous 
services hadnt been carried out by a garage within their approved network. So, I think its 
likely the car did have a service history, albeit not from an authorised manufacturer dealer as 
described by MD.  
I think this is relevant because it supports that the car had been looked after and maintained. 
Having said that, Mr T says he was told by MD that the service for the timing belt was due in 
June 2022 or at around 100,000 miles. Mr T provided a document print out from MD showing 
when the scheduled timing belt service would be due on Mr Ts car.In consideration of this I dont think its reasonable to expect that the timing belt should have 
failed significantly sooner than what the guidance said of its life expectancy.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. From the evidence provided I 
think its fair to conclude that Mr Ts car was not suitably durable because it suffered 
catastrophic engine failure at around 54,889 miles as the result of a part failing that should 
not reasonably have failed at that mileage. I do not think a reasonable person would expect 
to have to replace the engine on a car of this age and mileage so soon, so I do not consider 
the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied. 
Having considered that Mr Ts car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to him, RCIFS will need to put things right.
In a phone call to our investigator in November 2021, Mr T said he was without a car from 
when his car broke down in June 2021 to August 2021. This is consistent with the invoice 
from Garage A dated 22 June 2021 and the invoice from Garage B dated 9 August 2021. In 
consideration that Mr T didnt have use of the car during those months, Ill be instructing 
RCIFS to refund to Mr T the monthly repayments of June and July 2021.  
Ill also be instructing RCIFS to reimburse to Mr T the full costs of repairs and recovery of his 
car to Garages A & B. Mr T has provided us with invoices for the diagnostics and repairs and 
a bank statement to demonstrate the cost of recovery of his car to Garage B. The invoices 
and evidence provided shows that Mr T paid out a total of £5,075.99 to repair the damage 
caused as a result of the failed cambelt. This consisted of £910.99 for diagnostics labour, 
cambelt kit and recovery by Garage A; £420 for the recovery of the car to Garage B; and 
£3,745 from Garage B for supplying and fitting the engine and related parts.  
£44 of Garage Bs invoice was for a locking nut key which Ive deducted from the total 
invoice amount of £3,789, as I consider this wouldnt have been related to the failed cambelt. 
Mr T has also said that the situation has caused him stress and inconvenience. For example, 
Mr T says he had to borrow money to pay for the repairs. I think its fair to say Mr T would 
have been considerably inconvenienced by the whole situation. Im in agreement with our 
investigator that £150 compensation is a fair recognition of this in the circumstances. So, Ill 
be instructing RCIFS to pay this to Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and instruct RCI Financial Services 
Limited to: 
refund to Mr T, the monthly repayments hes made for June and July 2021 for the 
loss of use of his car
reimburse to Mr T £5,075.99 for the associated costs of repair to his car as 
explained in my decision
pay Mr T £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him
pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds and reimbursements calculated from 
the date of payment to the date of settlementIf RCI Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr T how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman