DRN-2888612
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr N took out a loan with Loans 2 Go for £300. The loan was taken out 
over 18 months with an APR of 1,010.3% and his monthly repayments were £68.57 making 
the total repayable £1,234.26. 
Mr N complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Mr N referred his complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ns complaint. She thought Loans 2 Go shouldnt have made the 
loan. As Loans 2 Go disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ns complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr N 
would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr N wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ns ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focussed  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr N undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
With regard to the first question Mr N told Loans 2 Go when he applied for the loan that his 
monthly income was £1,800 and he spent £250 on living costs and credit commitments. To 
verify that, Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search and verified his income. Loans 2 Go said 
it found that Mr N had a minimum monthly income of £1,547.60 and it calculated that he had 
living costs and credit commitments of £1,298.93. It said it added a buffer of £180. On those 
figures he would have had a disposable income of just 10p after making the new loan 
repayment to Loans 2 Go.
I think Loan 2 Gos checks were proportionate for this loan. But simply performing 
proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to the 
information shown by those checks. Sometimes that will lead a lender to request additional 
information from a consumer. Or sometimes it will lead a lender to reject a loan application 
outright. And thats what I think should have happened here. Thats because I can see there 
was a big difference between what Mr N told Loans 2 Go about his income and expenditure 
and what it says it could see through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have 
accepted the loan application knowing or having reason to suspect Mr N wasnt giving it 
accurate information about his finances. So I think Loans 2 Go should either have carried 
out further checks to establish his financial position with more certainty and even without 
taking its checks further, leaving Mr N with a disposable income of 10p suggests the loan 
was unaffordable and it shouldnt have been lending to him.. 
In addition to this, Loan 2 Gos credit search showed that Mr N was in an arrangement to 
pay with two lenders, one being in respect of a loan for £425 which hed only taken out four 
months previously. Hed also opened five accounts in the last 12 months. He was almost up to the limit on his credit card. I think this should have put Loans 2 go on notice that Mr Ns 
financial situation wasnt anything like as good as hed made out.
As I have concluded that Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further checks for the 
loan or not lent to him, I need to consider what it would have seen if it had done such 
checks. Mr N has provided some bank statements from around the time he applied for the 
loan. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that Loans 2 Go should necessarily 
have done. But I think looking at these would have given a good indication that Mr Ns 
financial situation around the time he applied for the loan was a lot less favourable than hed 
made out. Ive reviewed Mr Ns bank statements in the two month period before he applied 
for the loan. In December 2018 he paid over £500 to nine different lenders. In January 2019 
he paid over £700 to eleven different lenders. This suggests to me that Mr N was falling 
deeper and deeper into a cycle of debt which meant hed be unlikely to be able to repay the 
loan from Loans 2 Go over the term of the loan without further borrowing.
In summary, Im not satisfied Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision. 
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
To put things right Loans 2 Go should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr N as payments towards the capital amount of £300;
if Mr N has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
him with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr N; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put 
things right for Mr N as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman