DRN-3401470
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that a leak on their neighbours property damaged their shared 
boundary wall. And although their neighbours insurers agreed to cover the costs of repairing 
his wall, their own home insurance providers, Qmetric Group Limited, trading as Policy 
Expert (Qmetric), unfairly declined their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a home insurance policy with Qmetric. 
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs H noticed that the shared wall at the front of their home was 
damp. They said this soon turned into a constant leak. They contacted their local water 
board for help. The water board visited and said the water could be coming from a natural 
spring, rather than it being a leak. But later on, the local council said this wasnt the case. 
Mr and Mrs H contacted Qmetric on 23 September 2020 to let them know that water damage 
was affecting their wall. Qmetric said that as the damage was potentially the result of a 
damaged water mains pipe, they instructed drainage specialists to visit the property. They 
said that their report confirmed that the leak appeared to be coming from Mr and Mrs Hs 
neighbours house.
Qmetric said that in October 2020, they told Mr and Mrs H that they would need to contact 
either their Legal Expenses Insurance provider or their neighbours insurer as the 
neighbours insurer would cause damage to Mr and Mrs Hs wall in gaining access to the 
pipe.
Mr and Mrs H said their neighbour claimed on his insurance and the leak was repaired. But 
their side of the wall had to be damaged in the process of repairing the leak. At first, Mr and 
Mrs Hs neighbours insurer agreed to cover the cost of the damage the leak repair had 
caused to their side of the wall. But Mr and Mrs H said that as this was more expensive than 
first thought, they changed their mind. That insurer said that as the damage was caused by a 
leak from an underground pipe, the neighbour wasnt at fault. So they would only cover the 
cost of repairing the neighbours side of the wall. The neighbours insurer felt that Qmetric 
should cover the cost of repairing Mr and Mrs Hs side of the wall.
Qmetric said they next heard from Mr and Mrs H in May 2021. They said Mr and Mrs H told 
them that their neighbours insurers had initially admitted liability and paid to have an 
engineer find and fix the leak. But that this would cause damage to their side of the wall. 
Qmetric said that Mr and Mrs H told them that their neighbours insurer had told them to get 
quotes for the required work. B that the neighbours insurer had since changed their mind 
and wasnt now prepared to cover the costs of the damage. They said Mr and Mrs H had 
been told to claim on their own insurance with Qmetric for the damage to their wall. 
Qmetric said they instructed a surveyor to attend Mr and Mrs Hs property. They also asked 
Mr and Mrs H to share details of the contact theyd had with their neighbours insurer. They 
said the surveyor reported that there was no cover for the damage to the wall. Qmetric felt 
that the wall was already in poor condition before the leak. So they declined to cover the cost 
of the repairs. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with Qmetric. They didnt feel that the damage was their fault. 
They felt that as the leak had come from their neighbours property, his insurer should be 
held responsible. They also felt that the leak had damaged their wall. So they felt that they 
should be covered under their own insurance. They complained to Qmetric about their 
decision to decline the claim.
Qmetric issued their final decision in July 2021. They didnt uphold the complaint.  They 
empathised with Mr and Mrs Hs situation. But said they were satisfied that theyd made the 
correct decision on the claim. They said their review included their Head of Claims and their 
in-house surveyor team looking at the complaint, and that theyd agreed with the decision to 
decline. Qmetric said there was no cover for the damage. They said that for a claim to be 
covered under the policy, the cause of the damage must fit within one of the named one-off 
events listed, such as storm, theft or fire. But they said that no damage had been identified 
that was sustained as a direct result of a one-off event affecting the wall. So the policy 
couldnt cover the damage. They also said that theyd found pictures of the wall from 2018 
which showed that it had been suffering from ongoing issues since at least then. So they felt 
that the wall had been in a poor condition for a significant period of time. They said that the 
policy excluded  under General Exclusions - damage caused by wear and tear.  
Unhappy with Qmetrics response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged how difficult the 
situation was for Mr and Mrs H. But felt that the information hed seen showed it was likely 
the damage to the wall was a result of wear and tear, rather than solely the leak from the 
underground water pipe. He said Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance policy stated that Qmetric 
wouldnt cover the damage due to the walls condition. 
He also said that even if Qmetric had accepted the damage was a result of the leak and not 
the walls condition, he felt that Mr and Mrs Hs claim wouldve been excluded. This was 
because the leak appeared to have been gradual, rather than sudden. Overall, he didnt 
think Qmetric had acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator. They felt it was wrong that a water pipe that 
didnt even supply their property had caused damage which they couldnt claim for on their 
insurance. They said that their wall had a natural lean, and always had along the entire 
length. They said their wall hadnt needed any maintenance before the leak. And that if the 
leak hadnt happened the wall would still be sound. They asked this service to consider what 
their neighbours insurer had said, as they felt they had concluded the damage should be 
covered by Qmetric under escape of water. Mr and Mrs H also said that the property with the 
water leak was lower than theirs. And that his wall supported their wall. They said that the 
leak and the missing rock from their neighbours wall meant that his wall hadnt been 
supporting their wall. And that this had caused the lean to severely increase. Mr and Mrs H 
said their wall was old, but had been safe and secure before the leak. And that they wanted 
it put back to a secure state of repair. They also said that their insurer shouldnt rely on the 
age of their wall, using wear and tear, to decline their claim, as they knew how old the wall 
was when they took on the insurance. They said the situation had put them under a great 
deal of stress. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, their complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know how disappointing this will be to Mr and Mrs H, but, having looked at all the evidence, 
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I start, Id like to say that I acknowledge how difficult the circumstances of this 
complaint have been for Mr and Mrs H. Im very sorry for what theyve been through. I 
acknowledge that theyve asked this service to help them get their wall repaired. But, based 
on the evidence Ive been presented with, Ive been unable to conclude that Qmetric should 
cover the claim. I would like to confirm to Mr and Mrs H that I have carefully considered if 
there is any fair way to ask Qmetric to cover their claim, but Ive been unable to find one.  
The crux of this complaint is whether the wall was already in a poor condition before the 
leak. Qmetrics position is that no one-off insured event took place which damaged the wall. 
And that it was already in poor condition and that was the reason it needed to be repaired. 
Mr and Mrs Hs position is that the wall was safe and secure before the leak. They feel that 
the wall was damaged by the leak. And therefore believe that Qmetric should cover the cost 
of the repairs.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H tried to set up a complaint against their neighbours insurer. 
But that this wasnt possible due to them not being customers of that insurer. I will refer to 
their neighbours insurer in my decision, but I am unable to ask that insurer to take any 
action in relation to this complaint. I also note that Mr and Mrs Hs neighbours insurer have 
told them that they would expect their claim to be covered under escape of water under their 
own insurance. Ill consider this point in my decision. 
Qmetric declined to cover the cost of the wall repairs for a number of reasons. They said:
No insured peril, ie no named one-off event, had caused the damage. 
No damage had been identified which had been sustained as a direct result of a one-
off event affecting the wall. Therefore the damage wasnt covered under the policy.
The wall had been showing signs of deterioration and failure since at least 2018. So 
they felt they had evidence that the wall had been in a poor condition for a significant 
period of time.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is 
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by 
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of 
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its 
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
In this case, Qmetric have said that no insured peril caused the damage. Theyve also said 
that the wall was in poor condition before the leak. Ill consider both of these points.
Ive first considered whether the damage to the wall fell under any insured event under Mr 
and Mrs Hs policy. The policy provides cover for escape of water, subsidence and 
accidental damage, amongst other things. 
From what Ive seen, the leak occurred over time and couldve been ongoing for months. 
Therefore the damage it caused would fall under gradual loss or damage. For the escape 
of water insurance to cover the leak, it would have to have happened suddenly and unexpectedly. The same is true of the accidental damage under the policy. The policy terms 
and conditions state, under 4. Escape of water or oil:
We dont cover:

c. loss or damage caused by gradual water or oil leak
So, while I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Hs neighbours insurer told them they should ask 
their insurer to cover their claim under escape of water, Im satisfied that Qmetric have 
fairly declined the claim under that term as the leak was gradual. 
I also looked at the subsidence cover under Mr and Mrs Hs policy.
This is defined as:
Downward movement of the ground your buildings stand on that is not a result of settlement
Buildings does cover boundary and garden walls. So I went on to see if there was any 
evidence of subsidence. 
From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Hs builder suspected that the damage couldve occurred 
through subsidence. But the neighbours insurers surveyor felt that the wall had always 
sloped forward. So they felt the damage had occurred because of the pressure put on the 
wall following the escape of water. The loss adjuster said:
Comparison of the current condition compared with older views on Google Maps streetview 
show there has always been distortion and slopes. The escape of water can cause lateral 
pressures that can destabilise a wall and the repair needs to be designed to ensure the safe 
and sound reinstatement of the wall.
Like our investigator, Im not an expert on subsidence. So I must base my findings on the 
information provided by an expert. And Im more persuaded by the surveyors findings that 
subsidence didnt cause the wall damage, than I am by the builders suspicions. I also 
consider that the pictures from streetview show that the wall had been leaning for some time 
before the leak. 
Therefore, although Mr and Mrs Hs policy does offer subsidence cover, Ive seen no 
evidence that subsidence occurred here. Therefore I cant ask Qmetric to cover the claim 
under subsistence. 
Qmetric also declined the claim on the basis that the wall was in poor condition before the 
leak. Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policys terms and conditions include the following term 
under General Exclusions. This is a common term seen in most, if not all, home insurance 
policies. Qmetric relied on this term for this part of their declination:
12. Any gradual or maintenance related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of wear and tear, fall in value over time, gradual deterioration 
(whether you were aware of it or not), the effects of the light or the atmosphere, normal 
settlement, warping or shrinkage, rusting or corrosion, wet or dry rot (regardless of the 
cause), fungus, mould or infestation and costs that arise from using or maintaining your 
buildings and contents normally. I need to consider the evidence to decide whether the wall was in poor condition before the 
leak. Mr and Mrs H felt it was in a secure condition. But they confirmed to our investigator 
that they had lived at the property for 25 years. And that although theyd had no previous 
problems with their wall, theyd not carried out any maintenance on it throughout this time. 
From the correspondence Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Hs insurer declined to cover the cost of the 
damage to their wall in part due to the age and poor construction of the wall. They said:
As previously advised, as the problem with the wall is partly due to its age and poor 
construction, we are unable to consider indemnity on this occasion.
Ive also been able to look at pictures of the wall from both the present time, and from 2018. 
From what Ive seen, the wall was leaning from at least 2018. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs 
H said this was a natural lean. But, based on the evidence, including them telling this service 
that theyd never carried out any maintenance on their wall, Im not persuaded that the wall 
would have failed simply due to the leak. Im satisfied it was only because it was already in 
poor condition before the leak that it failed. 
I mentioned earlier that I couldnt ask Mr and Mrs Hs neighbours insurer to take any action 
in respect of this complaint. Mr and Mrs H have told this service that their neighbours insurer 
determined that his damage was caused by the leak. And that his insurer had agreed to 
repair all the damage to his wall. So they cant understand why their own insurer cant cover 
their claim on the same basis. 
But I note that in their 5 November 2021 communication with Mr and Mrs H, their 
neighbours insurer said:
As we do not insure your property and the problem with the wall is partly due to its age and 
poor construction, we are unable to be of any assistance.
That insurer also said (no date on the communication): 
As it has been established the damage to the wall is partly due to its age and poor 
construction, as well as by water accumulation behind the wall which has caused a build-up 
of hydrostatic pressure imposing lateral forces, we are not responsible for the repairs to your 
wall.
So I can see that Mr and Mrs Hs neighbours insurer said that the damage was due  at 
least in part - to age and poor construction. They told Mr and Mrs H that the damage should 
be covered under their own insurance, but, from what Ive seen, this was to assist them in 
justifying their own change of mind. I say this because they declined to pay for the damage 
to Mr and Mrs Hs wall at least partly based on their assessment of the age and condition of 
the wall. Based on their own investigations, Qmetric have drawn the same conclusions. Ive 
found no evidence which shows that they were incorrect to do this. So I cant uphold the 
complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have had a very stressful experience with their claim over 
a long period of time. And I can understand why they consider that the damage to the wall 
isnt their fault. I also understand that Mr and Mrs H have had a number of communications 
from the council asking them to sort out the dangerous wall. I sympathise with them for the 
stress all this must have put them under. 
However, despite recognising the difficulty of the situation for Mr and Mrs H, Im not able to 
uphold the complaint. From what Ive seen, no insured event took place to cause the 
damage. And the wall appeared to have been poorly maintained prior to the leak. Therefore Im satisfied that Qmetric fairly declined the claim. And I cant ask them to cover the cost of 
the repairs to the wall. 
As our investigator concluded, even if Qmetric had accepted that the wall had been 
damaged due to the leak, and not because of its prior poor condition, Im satisfied that the 
claim would still have been excluded under the gradual term of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman