DRN-3150424
The complaint
Miss T complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) incorrectly advised her that her 
central heating system required a power flush when it didnt, and that the engineers it sent 
out misdiagnosed the problem.
What happened
In July 2020, Miss T was experiencing ongoing issues with her central heating system. She 
called for an engineer to attend to diagnose and fix the problem, under her Home 
Emergency policy with Amtrust.
Amtrust sent an engineer to the property to investigate the fault and put things right, but the 
problem recurred, so further engineers attended. Two engineers commented that there was 
a blockage due to a build-up of sludge and recommended a power flush.
Miss T got her own engineer to perform a power flush. During the procedure, the engineer 
identified that the thermostat was faulty and continued with the power flush. Miss T says the 
engineer told her that the power flush was unnecessary.
Miss T complained to Amtrust as she felt the problem had been misdiagnosed by its 
engineers and she had paid out for a power flush which wasnt needed to resolve the 
problems shed been having with her central heating system. Amtrust considered the 
complaint but said it hadnt acted outside the terms of its agreement with Miss T. So Miss T 
referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed all the information but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She said there wasnt enough evidence to show that the power flush wasnt needed.
Because Miss T didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Looking at the cover the policy provides for, I can see the boiler breakdown terms and 
conditions exclude any Repairs or System flushes required as a consequence of sludge, 
limescale or corrosion. So Im satisfied that Amtrust wouldnt have needed to pay out for a 
power flush if it had been necessary.
So I need to consider whether I think its fair for Amtrust to have recommended the power 
flush and whether, based on the available information, it was reasonable for it to do so at the 
time. In doing so, Ive considered the job sheets from each engineers visit to determine what 
the likely cause of the fault was. These job sheets refer to a range of work and repairs that 
were carried out, from valve replacement, to bleeding the system and radiators. At no point 
was it mentioned on any of the job sheets prior to Miss Ts own engineer coming out that the 
fault could be in relation to the thermostat receiver intermittently not sending power.
However, when Miss Ts own engineer attended to carry out the power flush, it was only 
during the process that the issue with the thermostat was identified. I have to consider 
therefore that it if Miss Ts own engineer didnt identify the correct fault before commencing 
the power flush, then its possible a power flush was indeed a reasonable diagnosis due to 
excess sludge in a central heating system often causing overheating and boiler shutdown. 
Miss T says her engineer didnt diagnose the problem correctly before carrying out the 
power flush because thats not what he was contracted to do. And that he was only there to 
complete the power flush process. 
I appreciate Miss Ts point. But I have to bear in mind that if the faulty thermostat was indeed 
the main cause of the problems and something that couldve been easily identified prior to 
the power flush being carried out, then her own contractor wouldve advised her of this 
before starting the power flush procedure. Further, Miss T couldve requested supporting 
evidence from that engineer to confirm that the power flush was unnecessary. But Miss Ts 
engineer hasnt provided supporting comments, and so theres insufficient evidence here 
that Amtrusts engineers misdiagnosed the fault.
The only evidence I have is Miss Ts own comments that the engineer told her the power 
flush had been unnecessary. Whilst I dont doubt her engineer said this to her, this 
contradicts the comments of the two engineers who recommended the course of action, so I 
have to consider whether it was fair and reasonable at the time for those engineers to have 
reached that conclusion.
And Im persuaded by the comments of the two engineers who advised Miss T that a power 
flush was needed. This is because the job sheets clearly refer to the sludge build-up and its 
not uncommon for a build-up of debris in the boiler to cause it to switch off after a short time. 
Because Amtrust relied on the advice of the two engineers who noted the sludge build-up, 
Im satisfied it acted fairly. It was Miss Ts choice to then instruct her own engineer to carry 
out the procedure or to request a second opinion from her own engineer as to whether the 
procedure was necessary. 
Ive considered Miss Ts comments carefully, but I also have to bear in mind that she might 
have gone ahead with the power flush as advised, for maintenance reasons, even if she had 
been advised that the thermostat was also faulty, particularly considering there was a 
vulnerable person in the home. Miss T has also had the benefit of the power flush, 
something which may have been necessary either at that time or at a later date to deal with 
the build-up of sludge and to prevent further issues occurring during the winter months that 
were to follow. So I dont think it would be fair for Amtrust to reimburse her for the cost of this 
procedure based on the information available to me. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss T, but Im afraid there just isnt 
enough evidence in this case to persuade me that the power flush wasnt needed at the 
time. So I dont consider Amtrust to have acted unfairly here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman