DRN-3853289
The complaint
Mr H and Ms T complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) refused to 
allow Ms T to make a cash withdrawal from their joint bank account. 
What happened
 Ms T says in late May 2022, she visited a branch of Virgin to withdraw £3,000 but was told 
its system had insufficient identification details for her and her debit card wasnt acceptable 
for this size of transaction. Ms T says initially Virgins member of staff said customers had 
been advised of the changes to its identification procedures, but later admitted those 
identification changes were only communicated when customers visited its branches. Ms T 
says she has never been informed of any changes to Virgins identification policy or terms 
and it hasnt acted in line with treating customers fairly, as directed by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
Ms T says while Virgin allowed her to withdraw part of the funds that day, she was put to 
considerable inconvenience and its offer of £100 in compensation doesnt go far enough. 
Virgin says while it accepts in hindsight the branch should in the individual circumstances 
have agreed to the full cash withdrawal, it had acted in line with its policy and procedures. 
Virgin says it has no regulatory requirement to put in writing to its customers about the new 
identification procedures. Virgin says it has paid Ms T £100 to recognise the inconvenience 
this has caused her. 
Ms T wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt there was no regulatory requirement for Virgin to notify its customers of its 
identification changes and its own terms and conditions state identification is required and 
prior notice should be given for such large cash withdrawals. While the investigator felt 
Virgins member of staff shouldnt have said it had written to customers about these 
changes, its offer of £100 to compensate her was fair. 
Ms T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Ms T to visit a branch of Virgin, only to be 
told she couldnt withdraw the full amount of cash she wanted, as she couldnt provide the 
identification Virgin required. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin acted fairly when it refused to allow Ms 
T to withdraw the full £3,000 she wanted, because she had insufficient identification for its 
purposes. 
Ms T wanted to withdraw £3,000 from her joint account in cash and only had her Virgin debit 
card as means of identification. Ms T says she wasnt informed of any changes to Virgins 
cash withdrawal restrictions and this doesnt meet with the FCAs rules for treating 
customers fairly. Ms T feels she should be able to withdraw funds from her bank account 
when she wishes without further identification other than her debit card, and not have to 
worry Virgin might continually change its terms and conditions. 
Its fair to say Virgin did make a mistake initially when a member of staff told Ms T that its 
customers had been written to about changes to identification for large cash withdrawals, 
when in fact this was done verbally when customers visited its branches. Virgin also 
conceded that the branch having agreed as a one off to allow £2,000 to be withdrawn in 
cash by Ms T, it should have then allowed the full £3,000 and paid her £100 by way of 
apology. That said Virgin have stated it hadnt been wrong in asking for identification, as this 
was in line with its process and procedures and detailed in its terms and conditions and it 
had no regulatory obligation to write to customers individually about this change.  
The first thing to say here is banks have different identification procedures when customers 
wish to make large cash withdrawals and unfortunately banks like Virgin are having to 
continually adapt and change its security procedures to protect its customers and systems 
from fraudulent activity. 
I have read the terms and conditions of Ms Ts bank account and it says At some of our 
Stores. If you want to withdraw more than £2,000 in a day, youll need to get in touch with 
the Store beforehand. Youll need the right identification and (if your account has one) your 
passbook.
While Ms T feels strongly about the fact she wasnt pre informed of any changes to Virgins 
process and procedures regarding large cash withdrawals, its not for me to tell Virgin how it 
must inform its customers of these changes, here this was done verbally when customers 
visited its branches. Unfortunately, it seems Ms T may not have visited the branch that 
regularly and therefore wouldnt have been informed of this policy change, before the large 
cash withdrawal was attempted. Having said that its also fair to say the account terms and 
conditions are online and available to Ms T. 
While I can understand it would have been inconvenient for Ms T to only learn of the 
changes to Virgins large cash withdrawal policy when she visited the branch, I cant say 
Virgin acted unfairly when its staff carried out its policy and procedures here. Although Ms T 
may not agree, Virgin has no regulatory obligation to write to Ms T of this type of change to 
its cash withdrawal process and I cant insist it must. What is important is that Virgin have 
recognised the inconvenience Ms T went through here and I am satisfied the £100 it has 
paid her for that, is fair and reasonable. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied Virgin havent acted unreasonably or failed to follow 
the FCAs guidance on treating customers fairly, as Ms T refers to.
While Ms T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Virgin here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman