DRN-3417819
The complaint
Miss R complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unreasonably increased the premium for her
lifetime pet policy.
What happened
Miss R bought her policy from Allianz online in July 2018. She said her premium rose each
year by the following: In 2018 the premium started at £463.16. In 2019 it rose to £548.4. In
2020 it rose to £623.54. And in 2021 Allianz wanted her to pay wanted £740.08. She thought
this was excessive and cancelled her policy and bought another elsewhere and complained.
Allianz explained that it didnt increase premiums due to any claims Miss R had made and
she had made some. It also said it explained on the website, the IPID (Insurance Product
Information Document) and in the policy that due this being a lifetime policy, premiums
would rise. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Miss R remained dissatisfied, so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought it
should be upheld and he thought Allianz should pay Miss R £500 compensation. Allianz
disagreed it should pay any compensation, so Miss Rs complaint has been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 March 2022 and I said the following:
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint, but I consider the amount of 
compensation suggested by the investigator is too high. I do understand this will 
disappoint Miss R, but Ill explain why.
My role to consider what if anything Allianz did wrong in selling this policy and 
explaining to Miss R how lifetime policies work as regards the premium. And as I 
consider it did, how much inconvenience did that cause Miss R.
However, this service isnt the regulator which means we cant tell any insurer what 
to charge as a premium or how to rate any risk which is being covered. Neither can 
we tell the whole lifetime pet insurance market how to operate either. The regulator is 
the Financial Conduct Authority, and not this service.
Allianz said on the IPID the following:
How your premium can change  your pets age, increasing veterinary 
costs and advancements in veterinary medicine can all affect the premium 
you pay. These mean your premium will increase over the lifetime of your 
policy. However, Petplan will not increase your premium as a direct result of 
any claim you make.
Ive also looked at the underwriting guide which explains how the premium rises 
occur. This is commercially sensitive information so I cant share it with Miss R but 
its very clear to me that Allianz did not increase Miss Rs premium because she 
made some claims, as she had thought. And further there is no question that Miss R 
was singled out or treated differently to anyone else.
I consider that Allianz went some way to explaining the premium would increase but 
not quite enough. The fact is as Miss Rs premium increases show, the premium do 
increase year on and year and such increases arent capped in anyway so there is 
no limit on how much the premium might increase by. And often although its not 
specifically mentioned in Miss Rs actual policy document there is often a percentage 
co-pay of the treatment costs in addition to the excess to pay for each claim. I dont 
expect Allianz to be in a position to explain to a consumer, such as Miss R here, how 
much those future premiums will be, as of course it simply doesnt know that. Vet 
costs do increase and furthermore veterinarian science improves all the time with 
often more costly treatments then available. But I do expect more explanation around 
the increases. Allianz told us in response to the investigators view that its price 
increases were in the mid-teens percentage wise, its that kind of clarity which 
permits a consumer to compare and contrast when choosing which policy to buy. But 
that sort of clarity was not made available to Miss R.
Miss R is firmly of the belief the increases she was expected to endure year on year 
was too much and that it was because she made claims and because of that she was 
being priced out of this policy. As I explained it wasnt because of any claim and 
therefore it wasnt a method to price her out of the policy. However, it rose by 
£276.92 over three years, which I do consider is substantial considering the policy 
started off at £463.16 and more importantly isnt loaded for claims made. So, I do 
agree with Miss R that the extent of the premium increases which could happen 
werent fully explained enough. So, it is for that reason this complaint is upheld.
But because Allianz went some way to explaining premiums would increase, I dont 
consider it is as shocking to Miss R as she believes. She found another lifetime 
policy but the pre-existing conditions her dog has are not covered as is always the 
case with new policies. And of course, theres no guarantee that her new provider, 
given its also a lifetime policy wont increase premiums too.
Therefore, I consider the appropriate amount of compensation in this case to be 
£150. Simply for the shock of the extent of the increase rather than the premium 
generally increasing because Allianz did say initially and before Miss R bought her 
policy that due to increases in vet costs and new vet treatments, these mean your 
premium will increase over the lifetime of your policy.
Miss R was understandably disappointed with my decision. She wanted the compensation I 
could award her, to make a bigger statement to ensure Allianz and indeed pet insurers 
needed to be far more transparent and fair about the level of the information on premium 
increases they provided. 
Allianz whilst also disappointed accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.Just so Miss R understands, I have no authority to fine or penalise any insurer for any 
wrongdoing as this service isnt the regulator, thats the Financial Conduct Authority instead. 
That means any compensation I can award is solely dealing with the level of distress and 
upset that Miss R herself experienced. It has no other relevance and is certainly not there to 
make any big statement in the way Miss R would have preferred. It was reduced simply 
because I thought Allianz had gone some way to explaining premiums in its lifetime policy. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Miss R £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman