DRN-3134144
The complaint
Mr D has complained Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd wont refund the costs of a training 
course he has paid. He believes the course was misrepresented to him and made a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In November 2020 after introductory discussions Mr D signed up to an electrical installation 
course. This course was to be funded by a loan he took out with Caledonian Consumer 
Finance (CCF).
In January 2021 after completing some modules Mr D complained that the course had been 
misrepresented. He was concerned that his original understanding was that hed have a 
personal tutor assigned and subsequently found this not to be the case.
CCF didnt believe thered been a misrepresentation that made them responsible. Mr D 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt believe thered been a misrepresentation and wasnt going to ask 
CCF to do anything further.
Mr D wrote a detailed response to our view. He drew our attention to a number of issues he 
had with the course. This included the lack of certification, who was providing the buildings 
but overall amounted to his unhappiness with how the course had turned out.
Mr Ds complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr D paid for his 
training course by taking out a loan with CCF.
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding CCFs liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases by 
considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether CCF did enough in considering Mr Ds complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods that 
resulted in detriment then its fair to ask CCF to put things right. 
I appreciate Mr D believes there was a clear misrepresentation in the supply of goods or 
services but I dont agree. Mr D has told us he was promised a personal tutor but this turned 
out to be a team of tutors which places the onus on Mr D rather than any tutor checking on 
his progress and offering continual support.
I accept Mr D had most recently completed college and was used to a certain type of 
practical and learning support. Ive considered Mr D felt he was told he would get a personal 
tutor but none of the information provided to us by the course provider confirms this. This 
type of training course is all based on the student dictating the pace. I dont believe the 
material Ive seen contradicts this in any way.
In fact the introductory course information sent to Mr D (which he says he didnt receive until 
16 November 2020) talks specifically about a team of tutors and students needing to drive 
their participation themselves. If Mr D had felt very strongly about this at that stage, hed still 
have been within the cancellation period. He didnt cancel and went on to complete six 
modules.
I appreciate how much this course has turned out not to be what Mr D thought hed signed 
up for. Hes now raised a number of different concerns with CCF about whether the course is 
certified by City and Guilds, who owns the building sites and training centres, and that he 
wasnt told hed need to find his own work experience to gain full NVQ certification.  
I also note Mr D has reclaimed all the money he paid to CCF under the direct debit scheme. 
I suspect CCF will be asking him to repay what is owed.
I know this outcome will seem harsh to Mr D but Im satisfied there was no breach of 
contract or misrepresentation here. I wont be asking CCF to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against 
Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman