DRN-4163395
Complaint
Mrs O has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) irresponsibly lent to 
her and unfairly continued applying charges to her overdraft when she was in financial 
difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought NatWest should have realised 
that Mrs Os overdraft had become unsustainable for her by January 2018 and so it shouldnt 
have added the charges it did from this point onwards. 
NatWest agreed to refund the interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Os account from 
this point onwards. However, it refused to backdate the adverse the information it recorded 
on Mrs Os credit file. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having considered everything provided, I think NatWest acted unfairly when it continued 
adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mrs Os overdraft from January 2018. By 
this point, it was evident that Mrs Os overdraft had become unsustainable for her and that 
continuing to provide it was likely to cause significant adverse consequences. 
A cursory look at Mrs Os statements leading up to this period shows that she hadnt seen a 
credit balance for an extended period of time and so she was hardcore borrowing. Mrs O 
was also struggling to manage and was in a cycle of payday and other high cost lending. 
So overall by January 2018, I think that NatWest ought to have realised that Mrs O was 
struggling and unlikely to be able to sustainably repay her overdraft without help. In these 
circumstances, NatWest should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms. It 
should have instead treated Mrs O with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective 
action in relation to the facility. 
All of this means that NatWest should have realised that Mrs O wasnt using her overdraft as 
intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms. As NatWest didnt react to Mrs Os overdraft 
and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs O ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty. NatWest failed to take corrective action on Mrs Os 
overdraft at a time where I think it ought to have imposed a solution, due to the facility having 
become unsustainable. 
As this is the case, I also think that it would be unfair for NatWest not to backdate the 
adverse information it has recorded to the point where it ought fairly and reasonably to have 
taken corrective action in relation to Mrs Os facility.
So I think that Mrs O lost out because of what NatWest did wrong and that it should put 
things right.
Fair compensation  what NatWest needs to do to put things right for Mrs O
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Os complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Os current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from January 2018 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mrs O to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mrs O is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with NatWest to reach 
a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mrs Os credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
if it had started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in         
January 2018. NatWest can also reduce Mrs Os overdraft limit by the amount of 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs O along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mrs Os credit file. 
NatWest can also reduce Mrs Os overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Os complaint. National Westminster Bank 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman