DRN-4194393
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the sale of tyre repair insurance sold by Marshall Motor Group Ltd 
(MMG). Mr M says the limitations of cover were not fully explained at the time of sale. 
What happened
Mr C purchased tyre repair insurance in December 2019. MMG say part of the sales process 
involved Mr C being shown tyre repair insurance policy information on an iPad. This was 
followed by Mr C signing a compliance confirmation form. 
On the compliance confirmation form Mr C placed a tick next to the Tyre Insurance box 
confirming his selection of this product. He also confirmed The dealership did not provide 
me with any advice about finance and/or insurance products, only information. Mr C also 
ticked the box electing to receive further policy documentation by email.
Mr C contacted MMG in January and February 2020 asking about the collection of his 
monthly insurance payment, and the contact details for making a claim on his policy.  
In November 2022 Mr C contacted MMG saying that hed tried to make a claim on his tyre 
repair insurance policy, but it was declined because cosmetic damage was not covered. 
MMG responded to Mr Cs complaint saying policy information had been sent to the correct 
email address, and Mr C had the option to cancel cover if he didnt think it was suitable for 
him. MMG didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr C referred his 
complaint to this service.
The investigator found that the service provided by MMG was reasonable. Mr C didnt agree. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive considered whether MMG did enough to allow Mr C to make an informed decision about 
whether to purchase tyre repair insurance. Having considered the evidence, Im persuaded 
they did. Ill explain why. 
MMG have provided evidence showing the homepage screen on the iPad shown to Mr C at 
the time of sale. This includes images showing different tyres being impacted in a way that 
the insurance was designed to cover- including a severely punctured tyre, and a tyre with a 
nail inserted through it. 
Mr C also signed the compliance confirmation form requesting further policy documentation 
be sent to him by email. MMG have provided a screenshot showing a New business email 
generated on 19 December. This screenshot includes Mr Cs full name, the location of the 
dealership, the make of the car purchased, and the event status as Completed on 20 
December. 
Mr C says The screenshot from their CRM system doesn't even mention the word 'email' 
and does not have my email address on. If the system says it has been fulfilled/completed 
they should also be able to grab a screenshot of the actual email.
 
Ive taken on board what Mr C has said alongside the evidence thats been provided from 
MMG. I accept the screenshot doesnt specifically refer to an email being sent. However the 
date shown on the screenshot matches the time Mr C took out his tyre repair insurance. The 
other details from this screenshot also match the circumstances of the sale. Given Mr C had 
selected to receive further policy information by email, Im persuaded that its more likely 
than not that this information was sent to Mr C. 
Mr C says he sent several emails to MMG shortly after he took out his tyre repair insurance 
asking questions regarding the policy because [he] hadnt received any information from 
[MMG]. 
The emails Ive seen show Mr C questioning payments being taken from his account, and 
requesting contact details for making a claim. While indicative of Mr C requesting further 
information about his policy, I dont agree these emails prove that policy information wasnt 
sent to Mr C at the time of taking out tyre repair insurance. 
I havent seen any evidence to say that MMGs process for sending documents would not 
have been followed in this case. So although I accept Mr C strongly disputes receiving 
anything, I think MMG did most likely send a welcome pack to Mr C by email, and this 
document fully explained the terms, conditions, and limitations of cover. 
For the reasons provided I think MMG did enough to explain the terms, conditions, and 
limitations of cover, and Mr C was able to make an informed decision about the suitability of 
purchasing tyre repair insurance. So I wont be asking MMG to do anything in settlement of 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman