DRN-2819738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 6 December 2019, Mr and Mrs B purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
covering them for holidays taken worldwide. The agreed start date of the policy was 14 
December 2019, with the end date being 13 December 2020. The policy provided Mr and 
Mrs B with cover for any trips within this time period, for a duration of 50 days. The premium 
charged for the policy was £576.61, and included cover for a total of seven medical 
conditions.
But, on 14 September 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted Great Lakes. Because of the 
coronavirus pandemic  and its impact on travel  they requested that Great Lakes cancel 
their insurance policy and provide them with a cash refund for the unused part of the policy.
Great Lakes didnt agree to provide Mr and Mrs B with any cash refund for the policy. Mr and 
Mrs B didnt think this was fair, so raised a complaint about how the matter had been 
handled.
Great Lakes looked into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns and said it wouldnt be providing them with 
a cash refund for their policy. It noted that Mr and Mrs B had benefitted from cover under 
their policy from its start date on 14 December 2019. And, it highlighted that the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy said that no refund would be provided, if the 14 day 
cooling-off period had elapsed when the policy was cancelled.
Instead, Great Lakes said it could offer Mr and Mrs B a pro-rata credit voucher, for the value 
of £143.37 towards;
A new annual multi trip policy. The policy would be a 15-month policy, for the price of 
a 12 month one, at the current market rates. This offer could be withdrawn at any 
time.
A deferred annual policy. Mr and Mrs B could purchase this 12-month policy, at the 
current market rates. And could then chose to start the cover any time within 12 
months of purchasing the policy. This offer could be withdrawn at any time.
A UK only annual multi trip policy, with, subject to terms and conditions, the potential 
to upgrade the destination on the policy at a later date.
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this was fair. They remained of the opinion they should be provided 
with a pro-rata cash refund, instead of a voucher. Because they remained dissatisfied, they 
referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 14 December 2019 
and the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs B with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs B first requested cancellation of 
the policy on 14 September 2020, to the end date of the policy on 13 December 2020.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, and felt a monetary refund, instead 
of a voucher, should be provided to them. They said;
Due to one of Mrs Bs medical conditions, Mr and Mrs B might not be able to travel, 
should Coronavirus still be present, and so a voucher would be of no use to them; 
They considered the coronavirus pandemic to be considered as exceptional 
circumstances and therefore they should receive a cash refund under the term of the 
policy;  
Great Lakes were no longer carrying a risk under the policy;
Great Lakes were forcing Mr and Mrs B to take insurance out with it again, and they 
could get comparable insurance elsewhere, at potentially a lower premium. 
Because Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs B.As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs B wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy, and I do note they feel the circumstances here should be 
considered as exceptional, under the policy. But I dont think their reasons for cancelling the 
policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs B.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs B wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy, and I do note they feel the circumstances here should be 
considered as exceptional, under the policy. But I dont think their reasons for cancelling the 
policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B were insured from 14 December 2019, when policy started, until they 
cancelled it, on 14 September 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips they took, up 
to 50 days in duration. Whether Mr and Mrs B went on any trips or not, Great Lakes were 
covering the risk of a claim occurring before they contacted it to cancel the cover. And the 
premiums charged to them, reflected this. So, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that 
Great Lakes dont provide a refund for this period of cover. And I understand Mr and Mrs B 
dont dispute that they should pay for this period of time  whilst cover was active.
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their policy on 14 September 2020. Because of the coronavirus 
pandemic, Mr and Mrs B were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim under 
their insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under the 
policy from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from 
that point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do 
think it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs B with a pro-rata refund, 
from 14 September 2020, to the policy end date of December 2020. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel that the refund should be paid to them in cash, and I have 
taken note of the reasons they feel this should be the way they are refunded. But Im 
satisfied the voucher offered is a fair alternative to a monetary refund here. I agree with the 
investigator that the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs B arent 
unreasonably restrictive, as theyve been offered different options. They would be able to 
use it for other trips, whether in the UK or abroad, given the terms and conditions of the 
voucher  including the ability to defer it by 12 months. And I have to take account of the fact 
that neither the policy, or the industry guidelines provide for a refund in this sort of 
circumstance. So, the offer of a voucher, given the unique situation Mr and Mrs B find 
themselves in, is a fair way to recognise the lack of risk posed after cancellation. 
Mr and Mrs B have raised concerns with travelling in the future, given one of Mrs Bs medical 
conditions, and the coronavirus pandemic. But I have to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs B 
were willing to travel, despite their pre-existing medical conditions before. And, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to suggest Mrs B wouldnt be able to travel because of her 
health, within the timeframe the voucher provides for.  
Im also satisfied the value attached to the vouchers is fair and I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated Mr and Mrs B differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. 
Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount from the date Mr and Mrs B contacted it 
about cancelling the policy  14 September 2020, to the date the policy was due to end, 13 
December 2020. This meant there would be 91 days of the policy unused, where Great 
Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £143.37 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects 
the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 91 days after the policy was cancelled, Im 
satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr and Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman