DRN-2876516
The complaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also says the 
mileage was incorrectly recorded and that he wasnt provided with all the information he 
should have been at the point of supply. Mr B wants to reject the car.
What happened
Mr B acquired a used car from a dealer in August 2020 which he financed through a HPA 
with TFS. He says that it was agreed that before collecting the car, repairs would take place 
to address damage to the bumper and passenger door. On the day Mr B collected the car he 
has explained it was raining. On the drive home Mr B says the brakes were squealing. He 
contacted the dealer next day about this and other issues he had noticed. He says the 
dealer didnt respond and so he took the car to a garage to be inspected. This identified 
several issues. Mr B emailed TFS asking to reject the car due to the issues identified in the 
inspection report and the difference in the mileage.
TFS issued a final response letter dated 15 October 2020. It said that the dealer hadnt been 
given the opportunity to check if there was an issue with the brakes and that as more than 
30 days had passed, the dealer was allowed a chance to carry out repairs. It said that before 
the car was provided to Mr B a pre-delivery inspection took place which didnt suggest the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that it didnt have evidence to show a previous accident 
had occurred. It also noted a MOT took place on 29 July 2020 with no advisories suggesting 
the brakes were to the legal standard. It said that Mr B had reported areas of damage, but 
the car was sold as seen and it wasnt party to any conversations the dealer had regarding 
repairs prior to delivery. TFS said the dealer said the sales invoice stated the correct mileage 
at the time of acquisition and that it didnt advertise the car as having a full service history.
Mr B didnt agree with the outcome of TFS investigation and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted that Mr B asked to reject the car within the 
first 30 days and so he considered whether Mr B should have been allowed to reject the car 
under the short term right to reject as set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015). 
He noted the comments from TFS about the companies it would accept an inspection report 
from but said he was satisfied that Mr B had provided enough evidence from an independent 
garage to support the issues he had raised.
Our investigator said the evidence Mr B had provided showed the brakes squealing and the 
inspection report noted the poor quality of the bodywork and poor quality repairs. Given the 
issues raised and when these were raised, our investigator thought it reasonable that Mr B 
be allowed to reject the car, have his agreement cancelled and his deposit refunded along 
with interest. He didnt think that Mr Bs insurance costs needed to be refunded. However, he 
noted that as the car should have been allowed to be rejected within the first month Mr B 
should only be required to pay the first months payment.
TFS didnt accept our investigators view. It said that in response to Mr Bs complaint it asked 
that he book the car in with the dealer for the issues to be confirmed for repair. It said the 
information provided by Mr B was in the form of comments from the director of the garage 
and no report was provided or invoice for diagnostics costs. It said squeaking brakes can 
happen on used cars and it only had a handwritten note about this compared to a MOT and 
pre delivery inspection confirming the brakes were of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr B acquired a used car through a HPA with TFS. Under the regulations, specifically 
the CRA 2015, TFS could be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Satisfactory quality includes consideration to the appearance and 
finish as well as other factors that might affect the operations of the car and requires 
the car to be sufficiently durable. Mr Bs car was over five years old at acquisition and 
had been driven over 27,000 miles. I agreed with the comments made by TFS that 
some wear and tear would be expected.
Mr B explained that it was agreed certain repairs would be carried out before the car 
was supplied. While I couldnt say what was discussed I found that Mr B had been 
consistent in his comments and I thought it reasonable to accept that damage he 
noticed when viewing the car would have been agreed to be repaired before delivery.
Mr B signed the finance and associated documents on 21 August 2020. A report from 
a garage dated 24 August listed several problems including the noise from the 
brakes and several issues with the bodywork which it stated was of a poor standard 
and showed evidence of poor repairs. I noted the comments TFS made about the car 
being sold as seen but given the list of issues I thought it reasonable to accept that 
Mr B wasnt aware at acquisition of the extent of the issues. 
The car underwent a pre-delivery check and had a MOT carried out shortly before 
acquisition. These didnt raise an issue with the brakes. This suggested that the 
brakes were of a satisfactory standard at the point of supply. However, given Mr B 
noted the issue on the drive home and this was noted in the inspection report three 
days later, I found this raised concerns about the durability of the brakes. Overall, 
given the number of issues raised and the nature of these, I accepted, on balance, 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
On 24 August Mr B emailed the dealer saying he wanted to reject the car. He then 
contacted TFS on 30 August saying he had asked to reject the car and provided 
further information in support of this on 31 August. As Mr B asked to reject the car 
within the first few days and provided evidence to support the faults he had raised, I 
thought it would have been reasonable to have allowed this to happen. Therefore, I 
found that Mr B should now be allowed to reject the car and have his HPA cancelled 
with nothing further owing.
Mr B noted a discrepancy with the mileage. I noted the difference was relatively small 
and didnt think that had the correct mileage been recorded on the sales invoice this 
would have resulted in Mr B not accepting the car. 
Mr B hadnt been making his monthly payments under his HPA. I understood why he 
hadnt done this, but noted it was a requirement under the HPA that he signed. However, as I thought it would have been reasonable for Mr B to have been allowed 
to reject the car within the first few days, and he explained that he hasnt used the car 
since the initial drive home and the mileage is now only 27,938 (compared to the 
MOT recorded mileage from July 2020 of 27,369) I thought the fairest outcome was 
that Mr B shouldnt be liable for the payments under the agreement.
Mr B had been paying insurance for the car. This is a requirement, but had he been 
allowed to reject the car he wouldnt have been required to continue to make these 
payments. Therefore, I found the fairest resolution was for his insurance payments to 
be refunded (subject to evidence of payments being provided) from 30 August (when 
he contacted TFS asking to reject the car) to the date of settlement.
TFS contacted the dealer following my provisional decision. The dealer said that Mr B had 
time to inspect the car before he accepted it and it said it believed the photograph showing 
damage to the wing mirror was accident damage and wasnt present at delivery. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider each case based on its individual merits. While I take relevant rules and 
regulations into account my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given 
the unique circumstances of the complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent 
or contradictory, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities - that is what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not think it reasonable to have expected Mr B to 
have been aware of the extent of the issues with the car when he collected it. So, while I 
note the comments made in response to my provisional decision about Mr B having time to 
inspect the car, the report carried out a few days later listed several issues and I do not think 
Mr B would have been fully aware of these, or the extent of the issues, at delivery. 
On balance, while I note the conflicting views provided, I think the evidence provided by Mr B 
including the inspection report, photographs and his testimony, support the car not being of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Therefore, I think it reasonable that action is taken 
to remedy this. Given the number of issues identified, when these were reported and that 
Mr B asked to reject the car, I think the fairest resolution is for Mr B to now be allowed to 
reject the car and have his HPA cancelled with nothing further owing.
As I noted in my provisional decision, Mr B didnt maintain his payments under the HPA but 
as he also said he hadnt used the car (and has said current mileage is 27,938 compared 
with it being around 27,500 at acquisition) I think it fair that Mr B isnt held liable for any 
payments under the agreement. Any payments he has made should be refunded along with 
interest. As I think Mr B should have been allowed to reject the car when he asked I also 
think it fair he is reimbursed the costs he has incurred by having to keep the car and I note 
he has provided information about his insurance costs.  
Putting things right
As a resolution to this complaint, Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay by Mr B;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr B;refund the deposit (recorded as £99 in the documents), and pay 8% simple interest* 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement;
waive any payments under this agreement and refund any payments Mr B has made 
along with 8% simple interest* from the date of any payment to the date of settlement 
(this is subject to the mileage being confirmed as stated by Mr B at around 27,938 
miles);
refund Mr Bs associated costs from 30 August 2020 to the date of settlement 
(subject to evidence being provided and I note Mr B has provided information about 
his insurance); and
remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.
*If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman