DRN-2884795
The complaint
Ms N complains about her insurer, Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich). Her complaint relates to 
the rejection of a claim under her home insurance policy for damage to her house from a 
leak.
Zurich uses agents to assess claims. References to Zurich include these agents. 
What happened
In January 2020 Ms N bought a property and took out a home insurance policy with Zurich. 
In August 2020 Ms N contacted Zurich about water coming through an extractor fan in the 
kitchen and running down the wall when the bath was emptied. Zurich treated the incident as 
an escape of water and arranged for a surveyor to inspect the property to assess the 
damage.
The surveyors report concluded that the cause of the water leaking was gaps in the sealant 
between the bath and the wall tiles. The report also noted other areas of poor workmanship 
in the bathroom that may have contributed to water leaking. The report also indicated further 
issues might be revealed when repair work was carried out. Damage was also noted to the 
kitchen ceiling and walls that would need repair. Zurich considered the report and asked Ms 
N for a copy of the report that she obtained when she bought the property, as that might 
provide an indication of the condition of the bathroom at that time.
Ms N confirmed to Zurich that she hadnt carried out any work to the bathroom in the time 
between moving into the property and the incident. So any work carried out on the bathroom 
would have been done before Ms N moved into the property.
Ms N provided Zurich with a copy of the report she had obtained. Zurich considered the 
report alongside the report from the surveyor and concluded that it indicated poor 
workmanship in the bathroom and that this would have been pre-existing at the time Ms N 
bought the property. As Zurich considered the issues that had caused the leak of water were 
pre-existing, they declined Ms Ns claim. Unhappy at her claim being declined, Ms N 
complained to Zurich.
Zurich considered Ms Ns complaint but in their Final Response Letter confirmed the initial 
decision to decline Ms Ns claim based on the cause of the leak being pre-existing damage. 
But Zurich did offer to appoint loss adjusters (S) to carry out a further assessment of the 
damage and its cause, to determine whether the claim would be covered. Zurich 
acknowledged some delay in assessing the claim and paid Ms N £100 in compensation.
S visited Ms Ns property. Following their report Zurich reviewed the claim but again declined 
it on the grounds of faulty workmanship in the bathroom undertaken by the previous owner.
Ms N was unhappy at Zurichs response to her complaint and further rejection of her claim 
and complained to this service. She was unhappy at Zurich not accepting that the damage 
was the result of a one-off incident and the time taken to assess her complaint.
Our investigator concluded that Zurich hadnt done anything wrong in declining Ms Ns claim 
based on the damage being pre-existing and due to poor workmanship. The investigator 
also concluded that in paying £100 in compensation Zurich had acted fairly.
Ms N disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Ms N said the report when she bought the property didnt mention any damage to 
the property, and that the damage was caused by a one-off event of a water leak. She was 
also unhappy at how Zurich had communicated with her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Zurich has acted fairly towards Ms N.
The main part of Ms Ns complaint is that her claim should not have been rejected, and that 
the damage was from a one-off escape of water and not pre-existing damage. Ive 
considered the evidence, including the report from Zurichs surveyor and the report Ms N 
has provided. Ive also looked at the photographs taken by the surveyor at the time of their 
inspection.
 
The photographs do show damage to the kitchen from the leak, consistent with water 
coming from the bathroom. Ive also noted clear and visible gaps in the sealant in the 
bathroom around the bath, consistent with the findings from the surveyors report. Also, the 
photographs show significant damage to the plasterboard by the bath and indication of a 
poor state of repair to the floor and wall tiles and other areas. Ive concluded that this 
supports the view that there was pre-existing damage likely to have been present for some 
time and that, on the balance of probabilities, it would have been the cause of the leak and 
the consequent damage. Ive also noted a comment from Ms N that she hadnt carried out 
any work at the property (including the bathroom) between her moving into the property and 
the incident.
Ms N refers to the report she obtained when she bought the property indicating no damage 
to the property. Ive looked at the report, but Ive noted that its purpose is different to the 
surveyors report. Its headed Valuation Report, which means its intended to provide 
assurance for a lender to offer a mortgage on a property. Ive noted that the report 
concludes:
The property is in acceptable condition for lending purposes. My valuation reflects 
the fact there is wear and tear in some areas and that maintenance, repair or 
upgrading will be required. 
While the report doesnt go into detail on the latter comment, it isnt a detailed survey of the 
condition of individual parts of the property, as the surveyor report on the bathroom after the 
incident was specifically intended to provide. Ive therefore concluded that the surveyor 
report should carry more weight when deciding on the most likely cause of the leak, 
particularly when considered alongside the photographs of the damage. 
Im persuaded from the evidence that the leak wasnt a one-off event and that it had 
occurred gradually over time. Ive noted that the terms and conditions of Ms Ns policy 
include the following general exception:
 Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, 
wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
As such, Ive concluded that Zurich acted reasonably in applying the exception to reject Ms 
Ns claim.
The second element of Ms Ns complaint was how Zurich had communicated with her. Ive 
looked at the email and other correspondence between Ms N and Zurich, including its 
consideration of her complaint. Ive noted the offer to appoint S to carry out a further 
assessment of the damage, in addition to the initial assessment by Zurichs surveyor, and 
that Zurich considered Ss report when reaching their second decision to decline Ms Ns 
claim. Ive also noted that they paid Ms N £100 compensation for delays in dealing with her 
claim. Taking these circumstances into account I think Zurich have acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman