DRN-2695427
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave him
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partially upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr C took four short-term loans from Lending Stream between July and October 2018. A
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Lending Stream
can be found below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedHighest Combined 
Monthly Repayment
1 28/07/2018 outstanding 6 £100.00 £34.25
2 13/09/2018 outstanding 6 £350.00 £141.39
3 18/09/2018 outstanding 6 £100.00 £177.57
4 14/10/2018 outstanding 6 £510.00 £333.70
It appears that Mr C ran into some difficulties repaying his loans. The latest information from
Lending Stream shows these loans are with a third-party as there is an outstanding balance
on each loan.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Cs complaint. He didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint about
loans 1  3. But when Mr C applied for loan 4, our adjudicator thought that Lending Stream
ought to have been aware that he was having problems managing his money. At this point,
Mr C already had three outstanding loans with Lending Stream, and he was applying for his
fourth loan. So, the adjudicator thought it unlikely Mr C wouldve been able to sustainably
repay loan 4.
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion and offered to settle loan 4.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and he provided a number of points, in
summary he said;
Mr C disagrees with the outcome reached by the adjudicator for loans 2 and 3,
Lending Stream placed defaults on Mr Cs credit file for loan 2, 3 and 4 although he 
only missed two repayments; and
Mr C had another case with the ombudsman with a different loan company
which was upheld. But the period of lending was the same as Lending Stream.
Mr C then provided some additional comments about the County Court Judgement (CCJ),
the fact these loans overlapped and he wants the defaults removed.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to
establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyreunlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided by both
Lending Stream and Mr C in this context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Lending Stream has already agreed that loan 4 shouldnt have been approved. As its offer is
in-line with our recommendations for irresponsible lending, and Mr Cs credit file will be
amended so no adverse information is recorded about it, I find no need to make a finding on
this loan, but I have included what Lending Stream needs to do to put things right at the end
of this decision.
Loans 1-3
Lending Stream carried out an income and expenditure check before approving each of
Mr Cs loans. For these loans, Mr C declared he had a monthly income of between £2,151
and £2,171, and his monthly expenditure totalled no more than £1,350 per month.
Ive taken into consideration the fact that Mr C had multiple loans running at the same time
and that this resulted in him having to make multiple loan repayments in a calendar month.
But I still think the total amount he was due to repay for these loans was affordable based on
the information Lending Stream gathered.
Lending Stream completed a credit check for each of these loans. The results of the credit
checks show that Mr C had no defaulted or delinquent accounts. Whilst Mr C had a low
number of active accounts, the credit checks did not show what these accounts were. So, for
example, if Mr C had a number of outstanding short-term loans with other lenders, I dont
think Lending Stream would have been aware of these.
The information lending Stream gathered as part of its credit checks is not exactly the same
as the information that Mr C may have seen at the time, on the copy of his credit report he
could obtain. This is because the information Lending Stream may have access to isnt as up
to date, and it is clear to me, based on the parameters that Lending Stream searched, it
didnt obtain a copy of his full credit report. That doesnt mean Lending Streams checks
were wrong or cant be relied upon. There are no standards or requirements as to the
information Lending Stream had to obtain.
Ultimately, Lending Stream carried out a credit check, and it was entitled to rely on the
information it was presented with. But I do appreciate this may not show all the information
that Mr C would see on his own credit file.
Mr C was approved these loans early on in the lending relationship with Lending Stream. 
Given the information he declared about his circumstances, the information Lending Stream 
saw in the credit check, and the highest repayment, these loans appeared affordable. There 
also wasnt anything in the information Mr C provided which should have given Lending 
Stream cause for concern or have prompted it to carry out further more in-depth checks, 
such as verifying the information Mr C had provided about his circumstances.
Based on the information we have from both parties so far, I dont think it was unreasonable
that Lending Stream approved loans 1-3. I understand that my findings are likely to
disappoint Mr C but I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this
decision about these loans.
I understand that Mr C has had another complaint upheld and the loans were taken out
around the same time as his loans with Lending Stream. But we look at each individual
complaint on its own merits - as each business completes its level of checks. And in thiscase, Ive considered what Mr C declared to Lending Steam as well as what else it knew
about his circumstances.
The information showing on Mr Cs credit file
As part of Mr Cs complaint, he says that Lending Stream defaulted his account shortly after
he made his complaint to our Service. Mr C says he missed two repayments before loans 2-
4 were defaulted.
The information provided shows that for each of these loans, Mr C missed up to 3
contractual repayments as set out on his loan agreements. This resulted in Lending Stream
sending him arrears notices before a formal Notice of Default was sent in January 2018.
These letters informed Mr C that he had not made his contractual repayments in-line with his
loan agreement, and an outstanding balance remained.
It appears that Lending Stream then agreed a repayment plan for each loan which seems to
have started in February 2019. But a few months into Mr Cs arrangement, he ended up
missing his June and July 2019 payments. This resulted in Lending Stream sending Mr C a
Notice of Default on 5 July 2019.
I dont think Lending Stream made an error when these notices were issued. Mr C had
missed some contractual repayments and then had agreed a repayment plan with Lending
Stream, which he hadnt been able to stick to. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for
Lending Stream to be believe the relationship had broken down, so I dont think, at this point
in time it was wrong to have issued default notices.
The default notice explained that Mr C had until 24 July 2019 to repay the outstanding
balance or his account would be formally defaulted. But I cant see that Mr C contacted
Lending Stream about this or brought his outstanding balance up to date. Based on the
statements of accounts, Mr C didnt appear to make the payments as required by Lending
Stream.
Mr C made his next repayment on 30 September 2019 which was over two months after the
default noticed was issued. But by this point, the accounts ought to have been defaulted,
given they were sufficiently in arrears and Mr C hadnt brought them up to date, or made
further arrangements as required by the default notice.
Mr C has provided us with a copy of his credit file showing the information Lending Stream
recorded. Its important to note that the adverse information recorded about loan 4 will be
removed as Lending Stream has agreed that something went wrong for this loan and having
double checked the report, loan 1 doesnt appear to be visible.
But I can see that for loans 2 and 3, Lending Stream recorded the default dates for these
loans as 27 November 2019. Its not clear why Lending Stream recorded the defaults some
four months after it said it would. Its not clear why there was a delay in Lending Stream
reporting this.
Whilst I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to have defaulted Mr Cs
accounts, the information it needs to record has to be an accurate reflection of how Mr C
repaid his accounts. So, Lending Stream needs to update Mr Cs credit file to show he was
in a payment arrangement between February 2019  June 2019 for loans 2 and 3. As Mr C
had until 24 July 2019 to bring his account up to date but didnt do so, I think Lending Stream 
should update the default date, and backdate it to 25 July 2019 for loans 2 and 3.
The fact that Lending Stream applied Mr Cs defaults at a later date would mean that thisinformation would be present on his credit file for six years, and therefore would show for a
longer period of time than they should. By backdating the default date to 25 July 2019, the
correct information has been recorded and this information will expire from Mr Cs credit file
four months earlier.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream accepted my provisional decision and confirmed the offer that it was making 
to settle the complaint. This includes the settlement for loan 4, as it has agreed to do as well 
as updating Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr C doesnt appear to have provided me with any further comments or information that he 
would like me to consider. 
As no new evidence or information has been provided, and Lending Stream appears to have 
accepted the provisional decision. Ive reached the same conclusions, for the same reasons 
as outlined in the provisional decision. So, I still think Lending Stream needs to do what it 
has agreed to do to put things right for loan 4 and then update Mr Cs credit file as Ive 
outlined below.   
Putting things right
Lending Stream has already agreed to settle loan 4. So, it should settle this loan in line with
what it has already agreed to do. But, as it accepts that the loan shouldnt have been
granted, any adverse information currently recorded about this loan needs to be removed as
part of the settlement process. Id also remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Mr C
fairly while it recovers the outstanding balances.
In addition to this, for loans 2 and 3, Lending Stream should do the following:
Lending Stream should update Mr Cs credit file to show he was in a payment
arrangement from February 2019- June 2019.
Lending Stream should update Mr Cs credit file to show his accounts defaulted on
25 July 2019.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im partly upholding 
Mr Cs complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC needs to carry out the above to put things right for Mr C as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman