DRN-3753754
The complaint
Miss W complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (BMW) misrepresented the car they supplied her with. 
What happened
In October 2021 Miss W acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BMW.
Shortly after entering the agreement, Miss W asked the dealership if there was a warranty in 
place, how to activate it and whether the service documents were with the car. The 
dealership told Miss W theyd set up the warranty and send her the paperwork, and that the 
service records were electronically held. 
In March 2022 Miss W contacted a local manufacturer dealership and asked to purchase an 
extended manufacturer warranty for her car. The manufacturer dealership told Miss W that 
her car hadnt been serviced in line with the recommended service schedule, and so they 
wouldnt be able to provide an extended warranty. 
Miss W complained to BMW. She said when she acquired the car it was advertised as 
having a full service history, but this wasnt the case, and she now couldnt obtain an 
extended warranty.
BMW sent Miss W their final response to her complaint in March 2022. They said the service 
had been carried out on time. They said the original manufacturer warranty had expired in 
September 2020, with Miss W acquiring the car in October 2021. And in order to purchase 
an extended manufacturer warranty, this would need to be done before the original expired, 
so she wouldnt have been able to obtain this anyway. They didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Miss W brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
when she acquired the car a full service history was very important to her, as she was 
looking for her dream car and she wanted it to be reliable. Miss W wanted to return the car 
as it wasnt what she thought shed purchased. 
Our investigator gave his view that the car was misrepresented to Miss W, because it had 
been advertised as having a full service history, but this wasnt the case as the most recent 
service had been carried out late. He also thought the most recent service wasnt in line with 
the manufacturer guidelines for what needed to be checked and what parts needed to be 
used.  
Our investigator said he was persuaded that Miss W was induced into the agreement by the 
misrepresentation, and so she should be able to reject the car. He recommended that BMW 
collect the car at no cost to Miss W, refund her deposit plus 8% interest and remove the 
agreement from Miss Ws credit file. Our investigator said that Miss W had use of the 
vehicle, and so he thought it was fair for BMW to keep the monthly payments that Miss W 
had made to reflect this use. 
BMW didnt agree. They said the service was completed in time going from the date the car 
was registered, and the car wasnt sold with a full manufacturer service history, so the parts 
would be used not new, and potentially not in line with what the manufacturer would use. 
They said Miss W wouldnt have been able to purchase an extended manufacturer warranty 
anyway, because the initial manufacturer warranty had already expired. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Miss W was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Miss W complains that the car was misrepresented to her, and so there are two key things 
for me to consider here: 
1. Was there a false statement of fact?
2. If there was a false statement of fact, did it induce Miss W to enter into the 
agreement. 
False statement of fact
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It sets out that goods are 
to be as described, and that any information provided by the trader about the goods is to be 
treated as included as a term of the contract. The CRA goes on to say that any change to 
that information is not effective unless its expressly agreed between the consumer and the 
trader. 
Ive seen the advertisement for the car that Miss W acquired, and it states It comes with a 
full service history
I think a reasonable person would expect a full service history to mean that the vehicle has 
been serviced in line with the manufacturers recommended servicing intervals. 
Ive seen the service history for Miss Ws car, and this shows that the car was first registered 
in September 2017. It was serviced January 2019 having covered 11,670 miles. The 
dealership say they serviced it again in August 2021 prior to Miss W acquiring the car in 
October 2021.
The manufacturer of Miss Ws car set out their recommended service intervals as every two 
years or 21,000 miles. 
BMW have said that Miss Ws car was serviced at the right interval, as it was registered in 
September 2017 which is when the intervals begin to run, and so the service in August 2021 
was in line with every two years from the registration of the vehicle. 
I dont agree that the August 2021 service was in line with the recommended service 
intervals. The recommended service intervals are every two years or 21,000 miles. Not every two 
years from the date of first registration. The service is designed to check critical vehicle 
components to make sure theyre working as they should, and to attempt to avoid serious 
problems. So, whilst a car may be serviced early, as it was here, the next service is due at 
the recommended interval after its last service. 
So, Im satisfied that Miss Ws car was due for its next service in January 2021, two years 
after the one completed in January 2019. As this wasnt completed until August 2021, some 
eight months later, Im satisfied that there was a false statement of fact as the vehicle didnt 
have a full service history when it was supplied to Miss W as the advert said. 
Our investigator said that the service completed by the dealership didnt follow the 
recommended checks that the manufacturer would expect to be done. BMW said the car 
wasnt sold with a full manufacturer service history, and so theres an expectation that the 
checks will be different or the parts for repairs would be used and not new. 
I havent considered this further, as it doesnt change my decision that there was a false 
statement of fact based on the timeline of the service history as set out above. 
Inducement to enter the agreement
As Im satisfied that there was a false statement of fact, Ive gone on to consider whether 
Miss W was persuaded to enter the agreement as a result of relying on the false statement 
of fact. 
Miss W has said that a reliable car was very important to her, and she looked for one with a 
full service history, and with a warranty in place.  
I can see that Miss W emailed the dealership asking about the warranty and the service 
history documents prior to the car being delivered, and they confirmed the service history 
would be electronic. 
When the six month warranty that the dealership provided expired, Miss W approached the 
manufacturer to see if she could purchase an extended manufacturer warranty for the car. It 
was at this stage that Miss W realised that the car didnt have a full service history, and she 
complained to BMW shortly afterwards. 
BMW have said that Miss W wouldnt have been able to obtain a manufacturer extended 
warranty, because this would need to have been purchased prior to the initial manufacturer 
warranty expiring in September 2020. 
Ive seen the communication between Miss W and the manufacturer, where theyve 
explained that theyre unable to offer her a warranty because the car hasnt been serviced in 
line with their recommendations. So, Im persuaded that if the car did have a full service 
history, its possible that Miss W may have been able to purchase the warranty she wanted.  
Even if Miss W couldnt have purchased the warranty she wanted, Im persuaded by Miss 
Ws testimony and evidence that if shed known the car didnt have a full service history, she 
wouldnt have chosen it. So, it follows that Im satisfied that the false statement of fact about 
the service history induced Miss W into entering the agreement.
 
Putting things right
BMW should put Miss W back in the position she wouldve been in had the 
misrepresentation not been made. Im satisfied that Miss W wouldnt have entered the agreement, and so BMW should end the agreement, collect the car with nothing further for 
Miss W to pay, refund Miss Ws deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of the refund, and remove the agreement from Miss Ws credit file. 
Miss W has had full use of the car, and so I think its fair for BMW to keep the payments that 
Miss W has made toward the agreement, up until the car is collected to reflect this use.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as ALPHERA Financial Services must: 
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further for Miss W to pay
Refund Miss Ws deposit of £6,000 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Remove the agreement from Miss Ws credit file
If BMW considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also 
give Miss W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman