DRN-2644972
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling and decline of a claim
made under her home insurance.
What happened
Firstly I should make it clear that when I refer to Ageas throughout, Im also including any
other agents acting on behalf of Ageas who handled the claim.
In August 2020 a mirror fell in Ms S bathroom which along with causing damage to the
mirror itself, damaged a bowl, bathroom scales and two tiles. Ms S reported a claim to
Ageas, the provider of her home insurance policy.
Ms S was asked to provide photos of the damaged items and quotes for repair so she could
claim under the accidental damage parts of her policy. As Ms S had difficulty in obtaining
quotes, a loss adjuster was appointed.
However, it was then noticed that despite Ms S being told to obtain quotes for all the
damaged items, she only had accidental damage cover for contents. So Ageas said there
was no cover for the damaged tiles or vanity unit. And the excess for the contents accidental
damage claim outweighed the cost of the damaged items, so the claim was declined.
Ms S was unhappy that it hadnt been identified sooner that she didnt have accidental
damage cover for buildings, and that she was asked to obtain quotes. And she was unhappy
that the contents claim wasnt paid either. She was also unhappy with the handling of the
claim and communication from Ageas throughout.
Ms S complained to Ageas, and they first offered £150 compensation, which they later
increased to £200. Ms S was unhappy with this, so she approached this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Ageas do anything further as he felt the compensation
already offered was reasonable. And he was satisfied there was no cover for accidental
damage under the buildings section and the claim for contents items fell below the excess, 
so no claim was payable.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my thinking before I issued my 
final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Buildings accidental damage
Having reviewed Ms S insurance schedule, Im in agreement that Ms S doesnt have 
cover for accidental damage under her buildings section. Therefore I dont think its 
unreasonable for Ageas to decline the claim under this section for the damage to the 
tiles and built-in vanity unit.
But I do appreciate Ms S was told she had cover initially, and it was on this basis she 
was asked to obtain quotes. Ill comment on this further in the compensation section 
below.
Contents accidental damage
Ms S provided quotes for the damaged bowl and scales, which totalled £91.74. The 
excess (the first part of a claim Ms C would need to pay) under the contents 
accidental damage section is £200, so the cost of these two items falls within this.
However, I dont think Ageas has fully considered the contents claim correctly. Ill 
explain why.
The loss and damage was caused by Ms S mirror falling. And the mirror also 
smashed when this happened. From the information provided, Ageas considered the 
mirror, scales and bowl all as contents items. But Ageas said that Ms S mirror isnt 
covered as there isnt an insured peril. Looking at the policy terms, as Ageas has 
classed the mirror as contents, I dont think this is correct.
The policy covers accidental damage, and this is what has happened to the mirror, it 
has smashed when it has fallen over, along with damaging other items in the 
process. In addition to that, Ms S policy also contains additional cover under 
contents for:
D. Mirrors and Glass
We will pay for breakage of mirrors
And none of the exclusions for this appear to apply. So it does seem that the mirror 
should have been taken into account in the contents damage part of the claim, given 
it was classed as contents by Ageas, it was accidentally damaged when it fell, and 
the policy also includes a section for cover for Mirrors and Glass.
However, the excess would still apply to the claim overall. So if the cost of the mirror, 
added to the bowl and scales still didnt exceed the £200 excess, then Ms S still 
wouldnt have a payable claim under her policy. But at this stage thats not been 
determined. And Ageas would need to consider the claim taking into account any 
evidence of the value of the mirror that Ms S can provide them. Which as I say, may 
or may not result in a claim being payable under the policy.So unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, 
Im minded to say that Ageas need to reconsider the contents damage claim, taking 
into account the damaged mirror. But this would be subject to the remaining terms 
and policy excess.
But to be clear, in response to my provisional decision, Im not asking Ms S to 
provide me with quotes for a replacement mirror. This is because Ageas would need 
to consider this in the first instance to see whether the overall claim would be 
payable. Rather, in response to my provisional decision, Im asking both parties to 
confirm whether they are in agreement that Ageas needs to reconsider the claim, as 
and when Ms S can provide evidence of the cost of the mirror for consideration.
If after this Ms S is unhappy with whatever claims decision is ultimately reached 
when the mirror is included, we may be able to consider this as a new separate 
complaint. But this would be new information and wouldnt form part of this complaint.
Compensation
Its clear that it should have been identified much earlier into the claim that Ms S 
didnt have cover for buildings accidental damage. And if it had been, she wouldnt 
have been asked to obtain quotes for this or need a loss adjuster appointing.
And its also clear from the information provided that the communication over the 
claim wasnt as Ms S expected. Ultimately Ageas has offered £200 compensation 
overall.
Ms S has argued that this compensation is only for the communication issues, rather 
than the incorrect advice around the buildings part of the claim. But looking at the
correspondence between Ms S and Ageas, I think its been offered for everything, 
albeit that might not have been clearly communicated to Ms S.
But regardless of this, I think the £200 compensation offered by Ageas overall is 
reasonable in the circumstances, even taking into account that Im minded to 
conclude they didnt assess the contents claim fairly. So, unless anything changes as 
a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im not minded to ask Ageas to 
increase this amount.
So I was minded to conclude Ageas should reconsider Ms S contents claim to include the 
mirror, subject to the remaining policy terms and applicable excesses. But I also said I 
wasnt minded to conclude further compensation should be paid by Ageas.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ageas accepted my provisional decision and said they had no further comments to make.
Ms S responded and didnt agree with the compensation part of my provisional decision. 
She said how unhappy she was with the communication from Ageas throughout, along with 
the incorrect advice around cover for accidental damage under buildings. Ms S said the 
compensation had only been offered by Ageas for communication issues, rather than 
incorrect advice around the buildings accidental cover.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again carefully about the provisional findings I reached. Having done so, I 
havent changed my mind.
As Ageas accepted my provisional decision, and Ms S didnt make any comments in 
response to the contents claim part, my findings on this remain the same and for the same 
reasons outlined in my provisional decision.
So Ageas should reconsider the contents claim, taking into account the mirror once Ms S 
provides evidence in support of this. But this would be subject to the remaining policy terms 
and excesses, which may still result in the claim falling below the excess. Once Ms S has 
provided evidence of the cost of the mirror and Ageas has considered this, if Ms S is 
unhappy with whatever claim decision is ultimately reached when the mirror is included, we 
may be able to consider this as part of a new separate complaint. 
Ms S said in response to the provisional decision that shes unhappy with the compensation 
offered. And she also said that Ageas only gave this for communication issues, rather than 
incorrect advice about the buildings part of the claim. These are essentially the same 
arguments Ms S has made throughout, so this was taken into account when reaching my 
provisional decision.
In that, I said I thought Ageas had offered the £200 compensation for everything that had 
happened, even if they didnt clearly communicate that to Ms S. And I also said that 
regardless of this, I still thought it was a fair amount overall, even taking into account that I 
had provisionally concluded Ageas didnt assess the contents claim correctly. And Im still 
satisfied that it is fair compensation, so Im not going to direct Ageas to pay more 
compensation than the £200 already offered.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. In addition to the £200 
compensation already offered by Ageas Insurance Limited, it should:
Reconsider Ms S contents claim to include the mirror, subject to the remaining policy 
terms and applicable excesses.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman