DRN-2570460
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Hiscox Underwriting Limiteds decision to reject a claim he made
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L reported the theft of his wifes handbag from her unattended car and made a claim to
Hiscox. He told Hiscox the bag had been left in the footwell while parked in a rural car park. 
Mrs L had put a coat over the handbag.
Hiscox rejected Mr Ls claim as it applied an exclusion. The policy said Hiscox wouldnt
cover claims for loss or damage of insured items that werent completely hidden from view.
Mr L didnt agree as he said the coat hid the handbag from view. He asked us to look at his
complaint.
Our investigator thought Hiscoxs policy wording wasnt clear enough as to how an item
should be completely hidden. So she recommended Mr Ls complaint be upheld and Hiscox
meet the claim.
Hiscox didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 January 2021. I thought the policy exclusion Hiscox 
relied on was made clear enough. And I thought that as the handbag was covered by a coat, 
which was also an insured item, this wasnt completely hidden and so the relevant exclusion 
applied. So I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
Hiscox accepted my provisional decision. Mr L has replied in particular to the following 
comment I made:
The spirit of cover and the exclusion applied is to place some responsibility on the 
consumer to minimise the risk of an insured peril.
Mr L says critical words within this statement make it open to interpretation and vague. He 
says his wife took a reasonable level of responsibility by hiding her handbag with her coat. 
He says his wifes car is an estate car and so anything left in the boot would also be visible  
and more visible than hiding the bag in the footwell under the coat.
Mr L says its unfair for Hiscox to have a policy which says that items should be completely 
hidden from view and then refuse a claim for a stolen item that was hidden. 
As Mr L didnt agree, the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy with Hiscox provides cover for theft from an unattended vehicle up to a limit of
£5,000. The exclusion Hiscox is relying on to decline the claim says:
What is not covered:
9. loss or damage from, in or on any unattended vehicle unless the vehicle is locked,
the windows are closed, and the insured items are completely hidden from view. 
I think the wording of Hiscoxs policy exclusion is clear enough. Hiscox said that because the 
bag was placed in a footwell and covered by a coat, it wasnt completely hidden from view.
Ive considered the points Mr L made in reply to my provisional decision. However, I dont 
think it changes the outcome in this case. Mr L is claiming for an item he says was covered 
by a coat. However, the coat used to cover Mrs Ls handbag is an insured item which wasnt 
completely hidden from view in the car. So I dont think Mr L complied with the relevant term 
of the policy. I think the exclusion applies irrespective of where in the car the insured item 
was left while unattended.
I understand Mr L is disappointed with Hiscoxs decision. But from the information available, 
I think Hiscoxs decision to reject the claim by applying the exclusion mentioned was fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman