DRN-3105384
The complaint
Mr J complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) unfairly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr J says despite regularly keeping Lloyds informed of his financial situation, on the day he 
telephoned them to confirm his wife had secured employment, improving their financial 
position, it went ahead and registered a default on his credit file. Mr J says Lloyds never 
stipulated when the arrears needed to be cleared and when the default would be applied. Mr 
J says he attempted to make some payments to the loan account and kept Lloyds regularly 
updated on his income/wifes employment details and Lloyds could have been more 
understanding and not have gone ahead and closed his loan account and defaulted him 
when it did. Mr J says Lloyds actions have affected his ability to obtain credit and has placed 
a lot of stress on him and his family and his mental well-being. Mr J feels Lloyds should 
recognise it didnt treat him fairly, reverse the adverse entries on his credit file, take back the 
debt from the collection agency and set up a suitable payment plan. Mr J wants Lloyds to 
pay him compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lloyds says it tried to support Mr J and stopped interest payments on his loan account after 
he contacted them initially, in late November 2019. Lloyds says it acted correctly when 
defaulting Mr Js loan account and it issued various letters to him advising him this would 
happen. Lloyds says a payment plan wasnt possible, as there was a deficit when it carried 
out its assessment of his income and expenditure (I&E). Lloyds have confirmed Mr Js loan 
account is now with a debt collection agency and all interest and fees have been frozen. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says the fact Mr J had kept in contact with Lloyds concerning his wifes potential 
employment, in itself didnt prevent it from registering a default or placing the loan account 
with a debt collection agency, as the loan account was in arrears. The investigator says 
Lloyds had written to Mr J making him aware his loan account was in default and the 
subsequent consequences of that.   
The investigator felt Lloyds had shown Mr J forbearance even after the default notices were 
issued and despite the timing here, it had acted reasonably when it registered the default 
against him and passed the loan account to a debt collection agency. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand Mr J was going through a difficult time financially, given his wifes 
unemployment which was only made worse following the backdrop of the Covid pandemic. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds acted fairly when it registered the 
default on Mr Js credit file and passed the loan account to a debt collection agency. 
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. 
Its worth saying here, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to banks in 
April 2020, to provide support to consumers who had been directly impacted by the Covid 
pandemic. While I have considered this, I am satisfied, and by Mr Js own admission, the 
financial difficulties Mr J faced wasnt solely due to the Covid pandemic, and it was some 
months before this guidance was issued by the FCA. In fact, Mr Js financial problems were 
more closely related to his wifes unemployment, following the end of her maternity leave 
around November 2019. So, with that in mind, I cant say Lloyds had an obligation to provide 
any additional forbearance, beyond what it already had. 
From the information provided to this service, I can see Mr J missed five consecutive 
monthly loan payments between December 2019 and April 2020. Following this, a notice of 
default was issued on 15 April 2020, seeking the full repayment of the arrears before 3 May 
2020. While Mr J may not agree, Lloyds were entitled to issue a notice of default after three 
missed loan payments. Its also worth pointing out, in that letter it stated, the full repayment 
of the arrears totalling £974.07 was required to prevent the termination of the loan account 
agreement  unless a suitable way forward could be found. 
Mr J says he remained in contact with Lloyds, during this time  and he did. Sadly, he wasnt 
in a position to make up the arrears or provide any concrete proposals for the way forward, 
given his wife was still seeking employment at that time. Although Mr J made a payment of 
£230 at the end of May 2020, this hadnt cleared the arrears or importantly, met the 
conditions set in the notice of the default letter, issued by Lloyds in April 2020. 
I can see Lloyds then issued a reminder of the default notice in late June 2020, by which 
time the arrears had increased. When Mr J telephoned Lloyds on receipt of this letter, in 
early July 2020, his income and expenditure profile showed he was in no position to make 
up the arrears or unfortunately guarantee Lloyds of his wifes employment at that stage, 
although he was hopeful a job offer was likely to be forthcoming. From the contact notes I 
have seen, Lloyds did tell Mr J it may be able to consider setting up a payment plan, if his 
wife had secured employment, but it couldnt guarantee this. Unfortunately, when Mr J finally 
rang Lloyds to inform them his wife had secured employment, it had already that day, set in 
motion the passing of the debt to their collection department and registered the default on 
his credit file. 
Mr J maintains, Lloyds havent shown any forbearance or taken into account he was in 
regular contact with them, before taking the actions it did. I understand the point Mr J makes 
here, but I dont fully support his view, as Lloyds had in fact suspended interest on Mr Js 
loan account from December 2019 and he was already six months in arrears before it 
registered the default against him. So, its fair to say Lloyds had given Mr J a reasonable 
length of time to show he could meet the outstanding arrears and also continue with his 
monthly loan payments.
Mr J says he remained in contact with Lloyds and while that shows he was being proactive, it 
wouldnt necessarily mean Lloyds must as a result, delay any of the actions it set out in the default notice and reminder. Unfortunately, by the time Mr Js financial position was looking 
more positive, with his wife securing employment, Lloyds that same day had already 
committed to terminating the loan agreement and passing it to its collections department. I 
cant say with any certainty that Mr Js wifes new employment would guarantee that Lloyds 
wouldnt have still taken the action they did in any event, and although the timing of this may 
seem unfair by Mr J, I am satisfied Lloyds have correctly carried out the actions it said it 
would, in both the notice of default and the telephone conversations that were held between 
both parties. 
While Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman