DRN-3626093
The complaint
Mr L complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money he lost as a result of a 
scam.
What happened
Mr L fell victim to an investment scam. He believed that he was funding a legitimate 
investment, but it later transpired that the person he was dealing with was a fraudster. 
Between February and May 2021, Mr L sent five payments totalling over £8,000 to a bank 
account in another country using Wises services.
Mr L reported the matter to Wise in early 2022 and it attempted, but failed, to recall his 
funds. Mr L said Wise should be responsible for his loss because it had failed to undertake 
proper due diligence on the transactions and him as a customer.
Wise said that it was Mr Ls responsibility to undertake due diligence in relation to the 
beneficiary and it couldnt be held responsible where a payment is sent to a fraudulent 
recipient. It said that it had no reason to think that Mr L was at risk of financial harm from 
fraud when he made the payments.
Mr L referred the matter to our service but one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
agreed with Wise that there was nothing particularly unusual about the activity Mr L was 
undertaking and Wise couldnt reasonably have been expected to stop it. 
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He explained that he was in some 
very difficult personal circumstances, including financial difficulty.
So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr L carried out the transactions in dispute, albeit under deception. 
Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017, that means he is 
responsible for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances Mr L finds himself in, but Im afraid that I can 
see no reason to hold Wise responsible for his loss. Ill explain why.
Mr L didnt hold an account with Wise prior to the scam-related payments. It is a business 
which specialises in international payments and although it provides accounts which can be 
used for everyday spending, this is not how Mr L was using its services. Instead he 
instructed it to make a series of one-off payments over a period of a few months. Its likely 
that many customers of Wise will use its services in this way  to occasionally make an 
international payment if and when the need arises. 
The amounts of money Mr L sent, while clearly not insignificant, dont on their own suggest 
any heightened risk of fraud and the payments, rather than being in quick succession, took 
place over several months. I also cant see that Wise knew anything about the recipient of 
the funds that ought to have given it cause for concern.
All of this means that, without any interaction between Mr L and Wise during the period the 
transactions were made, I cant see any reason why Wise would have suspected Mr L was 
falling victim to a scam and I dont think it had any reason to intervene and question the 
payments before they were made.
I wouldnt expect Wise to question every customer about each payment they intend to make, 
such an obligation would be extremely onerous. Theres also no question that Mr L was who 
he said he was and all of the money he transferred was legitimately his own. Considering 
those facts and what Ive said about the value and pattern of the transactions, I see no 
reason for Wise to have had concerns about money laundering either.
I think that the only way this scam could have been prevented by Wise is if they had 
questioned Mr L about the payments before they were made. As I think that obligation is only 
engaged where it had reasonable grounds to suspect fraud, I dont think it has made a 
mistake here by not doing so. 
Finally, in relation to the recovery of funds, I can see that Wise contacted the receiving bank 
in order to try and recover Mr Ls funds. It might have done this a little earlier, but Im afraid 
that recalling money that has been sent internationally, particularly when there is a delay 
between the transactions taking place and the scam being reported, is rarely successful. In 
this case, the receiving bank said that its account holder had not responded to its requests. 
The implication of that response is that any recall was going to be dependent on the consent 
of the beneficiary which, for obvious reasons, was never going to be obtained.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman