DRN-3814029
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander).
Mr G has been represented on this complaint, but to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr G 
in my decision.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr G acquired a used car with a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Santander. The car was registered in September 2017, which means it was about four years 
and four months old, and had travelled 15,104 miles when it was supplied to Mr G. The cash 
price of the car was £15,267. Mr G made an advanced payment of £4,000, so the total 
amount financed on this agreement was £11,267, payable over 60 monthly payments of 
£221.46
In March 2022, due to a loss of power to his car, Mr G had a breakdown agency recover it to 
the supplying dealership. Mr G provided an invoice from the dealership, dated 25 March 
2022 confirming a health check was carried out with no faults recorded. However, the 
invoice states that a battery terminal was secured correctly and retested and was okay.
In April 2022 Mr Gs car lost power again, so was recovered to the dealer by the same 
breakdown agency who provided a summary report dated 8 April 2022.  Mr G provided us 
with a copy of a complaint letter he gave to Santander on the same day, about the issues 
with his car and a request to reject it.
Santander arranged for an independent inspection of the car which was carried out on 8 
June 2022. The inspection report concluded there were no faults with the car related to a 
loss of power, difficult starting or warning lights illuminated. 
On 10 June 2022 Santander issued their final response to Mr Gs complaint. based on the 
findings of the inspection report, Santander didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Unhappy with their decision, Mr G brought his complaint to our service for investigation. In 
September 2022, Mr G arranged for a third-party garage to carry out a second independent 
inspection and diagnostic of the car. The second inspection report advised of three chaffed 
wires which could cause a short circuit and make the car lose power. The report was shared 
with Santander.
Based on the findings from the breakdown agency and the second inspection, our 
investigator recommended that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. They recommended 
Santander allow Mr G to reject the car. 
Following their review of the second independent report in October 2022, Santander offered 
to repair the car and pay Mr G compensation for any distress and inconvenience. Santander 
also advised theyd not been given the opportunity to repair the issue so Mr G shouldnt be 
allowed a rejection.
However, as our investigators view remained unchanged, Santander asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated fixed sum loan agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander is also the supplier of the goods 
under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that Santander supplied Mr G with a used car that had travelled 15,104 
miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level 
of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage, and a higher risk the car may require 
maintenance sooner than if it were new. 
Having said that, the car was priced at £15,267 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a 
particularly old vehicle and had fairly low mileage for its age. So, I think it is fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any major issues for a 
reasonable period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car losing 
power. This is apparent from the second inspection report which advised of chaffed wires 
which could cause the vehicle to cut out and not restart, and from the break down reports 
provided by Mr G which advised of an on-going intermittent cut out non start, which required 
further investigation. 
I acknowledge the first inspection report found no issues, however, as two separate 
breakdown reports have found there to be an issue that required further investigation, and 
the second inspection report was provided with photographic evidence of the issue, Im 
persuaded a fault exists. In addition, Santander have also conceded, following a review of the second inspection report that a problem exists that requires repair. Having found the car 
had a fault, Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Satisfactory quality
The second breakdown report recorded the cars mileage as 16,696, so the issue occurred 
twice within the space of Mr G travelling 1,592 miles, and within three months from the date 
of supply. In consideration of the findings on the second inspection report, along with the age 
and mileage of the car, Im satisfied in the circumstances that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr G.
Santander were given two opportunities in March and in April 2022 to identify the issue with 
the car, however they were unable to do so. They were also given an opportunity to repair 
the issue in March 2022, when they carried out a health check and secured the battery 
terminal, prior to Mr G requesting a rejection of it.
I acknowledge Santander have said that they havent attempted a repair on the actual fault, 
and so should be given that chance to do so. However, on the basis that Santander were 
unable to correctly diagnose and repair the fault that was presented to them, I dont think itd 
be fair or reasonable to take away Mr Gs right for rejection following Santanders attempt at 
repair.
Under the CRA, Mr G would have a final right to reject if after one repair the goods were still 
faulty. Santander made a repair attempt when they carried out a health check and secured 
the battery terminal.
So, with all things considered, Im satisfied in the circumstances, under the CRA Mr G has 
the right to reject his car, and so Ill be instructing Santander to allow him to do so.
Putting things right
Having found the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G, and that Mr 
G has the right to reject his car, Ill be instructing Santander to collect the car and end the 
agreement with nothing further for Mr G to pay, refund Mr Gs deposit and repayments made 
from April 2022 when the car became undriveable. Mr G confirmed to our investigator in 
November 2022, that the car was still with the dealership and hes been unable to use it. 
Mr G provided us with a copy of an invoice for £336 for the independent inspection and 
diagnostic that he arranged. Santander should also refund the cost of this to Mr G. 
Mr G has told us about the distress and inconvenience caused to him and his family. In the 
circumstances Im in agreement with our investigator that £300 compensation is a fair 
reflection of the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
end the agreement with nothing further for Mr G to pay.
collect the car at no additional cost to Mr G
refund the Mr Gs deposit of £4000.
Refund all of Mr Gs rentals paid, from April 2022 when he stopped using the car 
refund the £336 Mr G paid for an independent inspection report pay Mr G £300 in compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Santander Consumer (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman