DRN-3487088
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about a lifetime mortgage they have with Aviva Equity Release 
UK Limited. They have said that the mortgage they applied for was not the mortgage that 
was set up, as Aviva extended the amount of time they had to hold the mortgage before they 
could pay it off without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).  This has meant that 
theyve been unable to re-mortgage to a lower interest rate. Mr and Mrs W have also said 
that potentially they should have been considered to be vulnerable at the time of the sale.
In settlement of the complaint, Mr and Mrs W want Aviva to waive the ERC so they can 
re-mortgage immediately. They also want to be compensated for being unable to switch to a 
lower interest rate in 2018.
Mr and Mrs W are represented in their complaint, but for ease, I will refer to all comments 
and submissions as being from Mr and Mrs W.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W sought advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA) in 2010 for 
inheritance tax planning purposes. At the time they were 78 and 80 respectively and retired. 
They owned their own home and the IFA recommended they apply for a lifetime mortgage 
with Aviva. 
To assist in explaining the mortgage to Mr and Mrs W before the sale, the IFA used a key 
facts document. This provided details about the proposed mortgage and what would happen 
if the mortgage was paid off in circumstances other than upon death or the move into 
long-term care. It was confirmed that an ERC would be payable and how it would be 
calculated. The ERC applied until 7 March 2018. After that date no ERC would be payable.
Following Aviva assessing the mortgage application, it sent Mr and Mrs W a mortgage offer. 
This detailed that they were borrowing £300,000 against their home which was worth 
£800,000. The interest rate was fixed for the duration of the mortgage at 6.65%. The offer 
included a section about what would happen if the mortgage was no longer wanted. This 
stated that an ERC, linked to a Gilt Index, would be payable if the mortgage was paid off and 
examples of how much that could be at different points and for different movements in the 
relevant index. It also set out the situations where no early repayment charges would apply:
You repay after 7 March 2025.
You repay before this date and gilt yields have not fallen.
You have died or you have left your home because you need long-term care.
Following receipt of the mortgage offer, Mr and Mrs W were required to obtain independent 
legal advice. The solicitor who discussed the mortgage offer with Mr and Mrs W signed a 
certificate confirming that he had explained the terms and implications of the above Lifetime 
mortgage to my clients 
Aviva sent Mr and Mrs W annual statements for their mortgage. It has provided copies of 
these documents, all of which confirm that the ERC ceased to be payable after 
7 March 2025.
Mr and Mrs W explained that in 2017 Mr W, being aware of interest rates being very low, 
looked into the potential to move the mortgage to a lower interest rate. However, he became 
aware that there would be an ERC of c£70,000 payable until 2025. Subsequently Mr W 
found the key facts document they have been given by the IFA, which showed the ERC 
expiry date of 2018. Mr and Mrs W made enquiries about the mortgage and, ultimately, 
raised a complaint about the ERC expiry date.
Aviva responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. It highlighted that the mortgage had 
been recommended by an independent mortgage broker and so the broker was responsible 
for ensuring that Mr and Mrs W understood when an ERC would be payable. It also 
explained that a key facts document was not binding, as Aviva was only able to decide what 
it was willing to offer after assessing an application and receiving a valuation on the property.  
Aviva went on to say that it required anyone taking a lifetime mortgage with it to take 
financial and legal advice first to ensure they understood what they were applying for, 
including how compound interest accrued. It went on to explain that there were several 
factors involved in it deciding what interest rates to offer and, as the borrowing is long-term 
in nature, so are the interest rates. That gave the consumer surety of the cost of the 
mortgage, irrespective of what general mortgage interest rates are doing. While it 
understood Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about the interest rate, it wouldnt change the terms of 
their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
was satisfied that it was likely that the key facts document was incorrect, possibly because of 
incorrect ages being input or a change in the Gilt yields. He pointed out that the key facts 
were only valid for one day and wasnt binding on Aviva. Furthermore, he explained that it 
was the IFAs responsibility to highlight any changes in the final mortgage offer and he was 
satisfied that this information would have been part of the explanation Mr and Mrs W 
received from their solicitor before they accepted the offer. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They suggested that it couldnt be 
established whether the IFA or Aviva had input the ages incorrectly in order to produce the 
incorrect key facts document. It was implied that the IFA had denied responsibility for this 
and it was highlighted that the IFA knew Mr and Mrs Ws dates of birth, which was evidenced 
by the application form containing that information. In addition, Mr and Mrs W reiterated that 
they had applied for the mortgage based on the information contained in the potentially 
incorrect key facts document. They were also of the view that any changes between the 
illustration and the offer should not have been left to the IFA or the solicitors to highlight. 
Rather they consider that Aviva should have done this itself, as would be normal practice. 
They asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
Our investigator provided Mr and Mrs W with some more information about the mortgage 
process and the responsibilities within it. Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy with the 
investigators conclusions and the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I would initially say that I am satisfied that the key facts document 
Mr and Mrs W were given by their IFA was incorrect. Based on the information Aviva has 
from the time, the ERC expiry was that which would apply for consumers who were both age 
80 or above. 
In order to produce the key facts, Mr and Mrs Ws IFAs would have input some basic details 
about the mortgage it wanted to illustrate. This information would not have been as detailed 
as the application needed. Aviva would then have created the key facts document and sent it 
to the IFA through the electronic system. So the error happened somewhere within that 
process, either by the IFA inputting incorrect information or Aviva doing so when producing 
the illustration. While it seems more likely that it was the initial inputting of ages that was 
wrong, at this point its impossible to know for certain.
However, what is the case, is that the key facts document was not binding. There was 
always the possibility that once a full application was made to Aviva and a valuation 
completed, the offer might differ from what Mr and Mrs W asked for and what the key facts 
detailed. It isnt uncommon for lifetime mortgage offers to differ from what is illustrated before 
application, given that key facts are based on assumptions about the value of a property that 
often hasnt been valued in many years. As our investigator explained, it would be part of the 
normal process for the IFA or mortgage broker to check the offer to see if there were any 
changes. 
Mr and Mrs W have said that they consider Aviva should have highlighted the change 
directly with them. Firstly, there is a significant amount of difference in the amount of 
information Aviva would have required for the key facts and the application, so Aviva may 
not have been able to link the key facts and the application, so it may not have been 
something that could have done. In addition, as I have explained, it is normal practice for the 
adviser, whether that be an IFA, mortgage broker or an adviser working directly for an equity 
release lender, to check the details of the offer made to make sure it reflects what was 
recommended and discussed with the advisers client. 
I would also comment that when a consumer applies for a mortgage of any sort via an IFA or 
mortgage broker, there will be very limited direct contact between the lender and the 
consumer. While the mortgage offer would be sent directly from the lender to the consumer, 
that is usually the limit of the communication. It is normal for the lender to communicate via 
the IFA or broker, as that party is the consumers representative in the process. In addition, it 
would not be appropriate for Aviva to do anything to interfere with the advice given, which 
approaching an applicant directly could do. As such, in the circumstances, I am not 
persuaded that Aviva should have approached Mr and Mrs W to point out the different ERC 
expiry date, even assuming it was aware that there had been a change, which it may well 
not have been. 
Again, as our investigator has pointed out, Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors would have gone 
through the mortgage offer with them. Its unlikely that the solicitors would have been aware 
of the change in the ERC expiry date, as it probably wouldnt have access to the key facts 
document. However, given the ERC was a key element in the contract, I think it likely that 
the details of the ERC would have been highlighted by the solicitors. Mr and Mrs W would 
have been aware that what they were being offered was a mortgage with an ERC ending in 
2025, not 2018. 
In order to uphold a complaint, I have to be satisfied that a financial business made a 
mistake. In this case it is clear that a mistake was made when the key facts document was 
produced. However, its not clear which party made that mistake and it seems entirely plausible that it wasnt Avivas mistake. Furthermore, while I know that Mr and Mrs W wont 
agree with me, it was their IFAs role in the process to highlight any difference between the 
mortgage it had sold them, and the one Aviva was willing to offer them. As such, I cant find 
that Aviva made a mistake and I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman