DRN-1553404
The complaint
S, a business, complains that First Payment Merchant Services Limited mis-sold a card 
payment terminal hire agreement and wont cancel this.
What happened
S renewed an existing hire agreement with First Payment for two years in April 2018. But it 
had an issue with the terminal which was not working. It contacted First Payment about this 
and in July 2018 a representative attended the premises. S says he told the business owner 
that the terminal would be replaced. S later discovered that a new agreement for four years 
with a monthly payment of £43.19 had been put in place. And that this amount along with the 
existing monthly payment of £18 was being debited to the business account. S contacted 
First Payment and was in contact with the representative. He made arrangements for an 
amount of £43.19 to be refunded to S for 11 months  a total of £475.09 - but then these 
payments stopped. In the meantime, First Payment said it had made an error by not 
cancelling the original agreement and did so with a refund of five months payments of £18  
total £90. First Payment said that any arrangement for a refund with the representative was 
a private arrangement with S and that these payments had not been coming from First 
Payment  but from a separate company he was associated with. The representative was no 
longer working for First Payment.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He issued his view about this 
in February 2020 and said that S should have refunds of the seven increased amounts of 
£25.19 (£43.19 less £18) a month by then paid after the refunds had stopped plus simple 
interest of eight per cent. And that S should be able to continue with the terms of the original 
contract as it wanted to with the other contract being cancelled at no cost and with minimal 
disruption. He also said that S should be paid £150 for the inconvenience caused and upset 
to the business owner. He said that he was satisfied that as the representative worked for 
First Payment, it should be accountable for his actions. And that based on the evidence from 
S, including text messages about the refunds from the representative, that an error had been 
made and that S had never agreed to pay more or wanted to cancel the original contract. S 
had requested compensation for loss of trading when it could not use the terminal. But he 
could not see any significant trading at all in the period or attempts by S to rectify the issue 
any earlier and to mitigate the impact. So, he said he would not be recommending any 
compensation for business losses. 
First Payment did not agree and said that it wanted an ombudsman to review the case. S 
said that its circumstances had not changed but that it was still being charged for the other 
contract. It said that the representative had a badge from First Payment, mislead the 
business owner and that it had contacted First Payment when it realised what was 
happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find I agree with the investigator and for mainly the same reasons.
S had just renewed the existing contract with the existing terminal. The issue S had was that 
the terminal was not working, and it contacted First Payment about this. It sent the 
representative on its behalf. There is very limited evidence of the contact between the 
representative and First Payment. But Ive seen he later said to First Payment that even 
though a contract had recently been renewed the existing machine was not compliant and 
was ancient. A contract for the new terminal was signed with the business owner but the 
representative stated that it appears that the client was not aware of the increased costs 
and he says he had doubts about her understanding of the agreement as she was very 
confused.
When the business owner saw the duplicate payments, this issue was raised. On any view it 
was an error for S to have two parallel contracts. As far as S knew the representative was 
still acting on behalf of First Payment. It is clear to me his actions were totally consistent with 
him making an error with the contracts and having mis-represented the new contract. There 
is no other credible explanation why he would otherwise be making refunds from money that 
did not come from First Payment  and for example would not confidently refer this to First 
Payment and just ask that the existing contract be cancelled. It may be that he was seeking 
to conceal what had happened but frankly thats a matter between him and First Payment. 
I dont think First Payment can fairly say that it only relies on some of his actions as both 
correct and binding on it and not others. The evidence leads me to conclude that he mis-
represented the new agreement while clearly working for First Payment and however he 
acted after that I dont see First Payment can reasonably hold S to an agreement taken out 
in this way.
Putting things right
As I mentioned above the investigator considered the position to February 2020. I agree with 
the principles of the recommended award which reinstates the financial terms of the original 
contract as far as payments to First Payment are concerned albeit with the replacement 
terminal. But clearly this now needs to apply to all the further payments made with a refund 
of £25.19 for each of the months to the date of settlement from and including July 2019. 
In addition, the original contract of two years has now passed the minimum term and has 
already been cancelled. I am going to require First Payment to cancel the new contract too -
28 days after the date of my award. So, Ive asked the investigator to alert the owner of S 
she will now need urgently to make arrangements for the continuation of its service in 28 
days. Finally, I agree that S has not substantiated any business losses due to the problems 
with the terminal and that the compensation for inconvenience is reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require First Payment Merchant Services 
Limited to:1) Cancel the hire contract of £43.18 a month with no penalty and with minimum 
disruption to S on a date 28 days after the date of my decision.
2) For each rental payment of £43.18 S has made from and including July 2019 
calculate a refund amount of £25.18 plus simple interest of eight percent from the 
date of each payment of the rental to the date of settlement. Add up all of those 
amounts to make the total refund and pay this to S.
3) Pay S £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman