DRN-3946906
The complaint
Mr H complains that Portafina Investment Management Limited failed to process the transfer 
of his occupational defined benefit (DB) pension scheme before the guarantee on the cash-
equivalent transfer value (CETV) expired, resulting in the need for a new CETV request to 
be made. The value of the new CETV was significantly lower. Mr H complained that the 
transfer was no longer financially viable, that he received poor customer service and 
suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr H approached Portafina in March 2022. He had just turned 55 and wanted to review his 
DB pension as he was thinking about transferring it. Mr H was self-employed and had 
experienced some health issues in recent years that impacted his ability to earn. He had 
accrued some debt as a result which he was keen to address and he wanted to take back 
financial control and be able to plan for his future. 
Portafina obtained some information from Mr Hs DB scheme in mid-March 2022 and the 
scheme administrator provided a transfer pack which included the CETV of £69,032.41 
guaranteed for three months until 17 June 2022. 
Mr H chose to proceed with Portafinas abridged advice service and it completed a fact-find 
to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. Portafina noted that Mr H 
wanted to access tax-free cash (TFC) to get a new vehicle and to make some home 
improvements (he estimated he needed just over £17,000). Mr H told Portafina that he 
thought hed need an income in retirement of £13,133.88. 
Portafina issued Mr H with a report on 24 April 2022 which recommended he remain in his 
DB scheme because it would meet his income needs in retirement and he would benefit 
from its valuable guarantees. Portafina said Mr H now had two options; to accept its 
recommendation and leave his DB scheme where it was or to opt to receive its full pension 
transfer advice for which it would charge him £4,641.94 (based on his current transfer 
value). Mr H elected to proceed with the second option to take full transfer advice. 
Portafina prepared a Transfer Value Comparator (TVC) report in early May. It noted that the 
normal retirement date (NRD) for Mr Hs DB scheme was age 67 and that he was forecast to 
receive TFC of £16,509 and an annual pension of £2,476. Alternatively, if Mr H took his 
maximum available TFC at age 55 and bought an annuity with a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) at his NRD it forecast this could give him an annual pension of £1,429.
Portafina issued its full suitability report on 26 May 2022 in which it advised Mr H to remain 
in his DB scheme because of the valuable benefits it included. Mr H decided to disregard 
Portafinas advice and to proceed with the transfer of his DB scheme as an insistent client 
as he wanted to release 25% of his transferred fund as tax-free cash. To achieve this 
objective, Portafina recommended that he transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP with a provider 
Ill call A.
Mr H confirmed he wanted to proceed on this basis and returned the application forms to 
Portafina on 31 May 2022. Portafina submitted Mr Hs online application to A on 14 June 
2022. The same day, A confirmed that it had sent the transfer forms to the DB scheme 
administrator. Three days later A sent an email to the DB scheme administrator to ascertain 
it had received the necessary forms to complete the transfer.  
On 21 June 2022, the scheme administrator said it hadnt received the completed transfer 
forms that it had sent with the transfer pack and CETV in March 2022. On 30 June 2022 
Portafina sent the missing forms to Mr H to complete and he returned them on 4 August 
2022. Portafina sent them to A which forwarded them on to the DB scheme administrator the 
same day. 
Shortly after, the DB scheme administrator confirmed that a new CETV would need to be 
produced because the previous one had now expired. When the new CETV was received it 
had fallen in value to £49,307.83. 
Mr H complained to Portafina. He said it had failed to complete his pension transfer in time 
resulting in him suffering a £20,000 loss and derailing his retirement planning. He said that 
there had been enough time to complete the transfer before the CETV expired and he said it 
was now impossible for him to transfer his pension given the significant fall in its value. 
Portafina looked into Mr Hs complaint and recommended that it was upheld in part. It 
apologised for the frustration Mr H had been caused as a result of the delays in the transfer 
process and for the delays themselves. It also said its records showed that Mr H had 
returned the DB scheme administrators transfer documentation in mid-March 2022 but that 
hed only returned the first page of each of the three documents hed sent in. Portafina said it 
was only later in the process that it realised the documentation wasnt sufficiently complete 
to process the transfer. 
Portafina said that it should have sent the transfer documentation for completion to Mr H at 
the same time it sent him the application forms for the SIPP. It said this was down to an 
administration error for which it apologised but, it said, Mr H had been responsible for not 
returning the full pension transfer pack in March 2022. Portafina said that, for the delays 
Mr H had encountered in completing the transfer it was offering him £5,000 in full and final 
settlement. 
Portafina also said that its advice to Mr H had been to leave his DB scheme where it was. 
So, it said, his funds were still there and hed not suffered a financial loss as he retained the 
valuable guarantees and pension benefits associated with the DB scheme. It also said his 
objectives for transferring (a new vehicle and home improvements) were not urgent. So, it 
said it wasnt upholding this aspect of his complaint.
Unhappy with the outcome of Portafinas response to his complaint, Mr H complained to this 
service. Our Investigator looked into the complaint for Mr H but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. She said that as Mr Hs guaranteed pension benefits were still in place he could not 
be said to have suffered a financial loss. She also said if the transfer had gone ahead it was 
possible that the value of his SIPP would have decreased as it would have been dependent 
on investment performance and, she said, he would have had to have paid the advice fee of 
£4,641.94 from his pension fund too (which was payable whether it advised him to transfer 
or not and whether he went ahead with the transfer or not). But, she said, she appreciated 
Mr H had experienced a loss of expectation. 
Mr H disagreed with our Investigators findings. He said he had suffered a financial loss 
because he should have had about £17,000 in the bank and £50,000 invested in his pension 
but he didnt. He said the real objective in transferring had been to sort out his debts but that Portafina had advised him that that wasnt a good reason to cite. Mr H also said Portafina 
had contacted him on numerous occasions since, offering to arrange the transfer. So he 
didnt think it was fair that it was able to hide behind its original recommendation not to 
transfer in order to defeat his complaint. Mr H said because he had been unable to arrange 
his pension as hed wished hed had to give up being self-employed and take a full-time job 
despite his ill health. He said this meant he was stuck in limbo, unable to arrange his life with 
a valueless pension so he couldnt understand how our Investigator could say hed not 
suffered a financial loss. 
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind so the complaint was referred to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment I know that this will cause Mr H, I dont think his 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
By its own admission, Portafina was responsible for some delays in the processing of Mr Hs 
DB transfer. Its admitted that its service fell short of what Mr H could have expected and 
offered to pay him compensation of £5,000 in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
I appreciate why Mr H is frustrated by the fact his pension wasnt transferred. Although not 
noted in either suitability report, it seems his objective in making the transfer was to sort out 
his debts and to take back control of his finances having experienced a period of ill health 
that had meant his income had fluctuated. Hes not been able to achieve his objectives and, 
against his wishes, hes given up his self-employed role and taken full-time employment. 
The CETV of Mr Hs fund decreased in value by approximately £20,000 and Mr H has said 
this is the amount he has lost and this is the amount he thinks Portafina should pay him. Im 
unable to agree. I say that because Mr H hasnt actually lost this sum of money. What he 
has experienced however, is a loss of expectation. Whilst the CETV did indeed decrease by 
approximately £20,000 in August 2022 Mr H did not proceed with the transfer. So the loss, 
as he defines it, did not crystalise. His DB pension benefits remain in the DB scheme and he 
will be entitled to the same forecasted annual pension and TFC at his NRD that I cited above 
regardless of any decrease in the value of his CETV. 
This isnt a complaint about the suitability of transferring Mr Hs DB scheme so Im not going 
to discuss that here. But I will say that Mr Hs DB scheme is a valuable pension with lifetime 
guarantees which, when taken together with his state pension entitlement at age 67 will 
mean his retirement income objectives are all but met (and I understand, but have no details 
about, Mr H has another personal pension plan as well). His DB scheme will pay him a 
valuable, index-linked pension for life regardless of how long he lives. The scheme, unlike a 
SIPP or personal pension, isnt dependent on investment performance or subject to any fees 
and charges. 
I know that Mr H wanted to transfer his DB scheme so he could access his TFC now. But as 
the TVC report states, to get an income comparable to his DB scheme at NRD on the open 
market Mr H would need a fund worth £100,000. So financially, I cant agree that Mr H has 
suffered a £20,000 loss. What I do accept, however, is that hes lost the opportunity to re-set 
his life in the manner of his choosing. That being the case, I have to consider whether the steps Portafina have taken in the 
circumstances, to compensate Mr H for his loss of expectation, are fair and reasonable and I 
think they are. 
As I mentioned previously, Portafina has offered to pay Mr H £5,000 in full and final 
settlement of his complaint. Portafinas advice fee for providing the advice to Mr H is 
£4,641.94. I understand this has yet to be paid. Portafinas terms and conditions state that 
the fee is due whether the advice is to transfer or not or the transfer goes ahead or not. So 
the offer Portafina has made to Mr H is to effectively waive its advice fee  which under the 
terms and conditions remains payable  and to pay him compensation of just under £360.
Where a financial business, through its words or deeds, causes avoidable trouble and upset 
to a consumer, this service can require that it pay that consumer compensation. Here 
Portafinas customer service fell below the standard Mr H should have received. But 
Portafina has acknowledged its shortcomings and offered to pay Mr H £5,000 in full and final 
settlement of his complaint. I think the amount Portafina offered to Mr H is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint and is in line with awards this service has 
made in complaints with similar circumstances. Indeed, if this case had passed across my 
desk without an offer of compensation having already been made, it is unlikely that I would 
have awarded any more than this. My understanding is that Mr H has yet to accept 
Portafinas offer but that it remains available. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman