DRN-3771087
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Secure Trust Bank Plc (STB) incorrectly reported his tax liability.
What happened
STB wrote to Mr A and explained theyd reported incorrect information to HMRC which had 
potentially affected his tax liability. Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
STB looked at Mr As complaint. They confirmed they had made an error in their reporting to 
HMRC, but explained theyd reported corrected information to HMRC, who would make the 
corrective adjustments to Mr As tax liability moving forwards. STB apologised to Mr A for the 
error and offered to pay £50 compensation for any trouble and upset Mr A had incurred. Mr 
A wasnt satisfied with Mr STBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that STB had 
already issued to Mr A regarding his complaint, including the offer of £50 compensation, 
already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened. Mr A remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service is impartial. This means we 
dont accept any partys version of events at face value over the testimony of the other party, 
but instead base our assessments on a consideration of presented evidence, which includes 
testimony, but which also includes requested documentary evidence where appropriate.
STB dont dispute that they reported an incorrect tax liability for Mr A, and they informed Mr 
A of the incorrectly reported tax liability when they became aware of it. STB also reported the 
details of the incorrect reporting to HMRC, so that HMRC can make corrective adjustments 
to Mr As tax liability moving forwards. However, in their response to Mr As complaint, STB 
acknowledged that Mr A may have incurred some trouble and upset because of what had 
happened, and they made an offer of £50 compensation to him as a result.
Mr A has explained that HMRC havent taken any corrective action in regard to his tax 
liability, and so feels that hes paid more tax than he should have done. And Mr A also 
doesnt feel that the offer of £50 compensation made by STB provides a fair level of 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience hes incurred here.
During their review of this complaint, our adjudicator asked Mr A to provide copies of any 
correspondence with HMRC as well his most recent tax-return, which show whether HMRC 
had made any corrective adjustments or not. Mr A didnt provide this information to this 
service. And Mr A also didnt provide the requested information following the view of this 
complaint put forwards by our adjudicator, which again invited Mr A to do so.
This makes it very difficult, from an impartial standpoint, to conclude that Mr As tax position 
remains in error. This is because HMRC should have made the corrective adjustments to Mr 
As tax liability following their being advised by STB of STBs error. And because Mr A hasnt 
provided any documents or information that confirm that HMRC havent made the correct 
adjustments to his tax liability, as should potentially already have taken place. 
Additionally, if it is the case that Mr As tax position does remain in error, this would need to 
be corrected by HMRC, and I wouldnt ask STB to reimburse the overpaid tax to Mr A as he 
would like here. This is because if STB were to reimburse Mr A the overpaid amount, Mr A 
would still be able to receive corrective adjustments from HMRC, which would mean that he 
would, in effect, receive the reimbursement twice, and which Im satisfied wouldnt be fair. 
Mr A has explained that hes had to submit a tax return because of what happened here, 
which he feels has inconvenienced him such that a higher amount of compensation should 
be payable to him. However, I feel that on the basis of the information I have presently 
available to me that the £50 offer of compensation made by STB is fair.
One reason for this is because Mr A hasnt provided this service with any copies of any 
correspondence with HMRC, and so I havent been able to assess or confirm whether any 
action that HMRC may have asked Mr A to undertake is solely as a result of STBs incorrect 
reporting, or whether it may have been the case that HMRC would have required Mr A to 
take any such action regardless of STBs incorrect reporting or not. 
In the absence of any confirmatory information to the contrary, I feel that STBs informing 
HMRC that they had made incorrect reports, and STBs providing corrected reports, may 
have been all that was required for HMRC to take any relevant corrective action necessary. 
And in these circumstances, I feel that the £50 offer of compensation made by STB is fair, 
and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I may have instructed STB to pay, had 
they not already offered to do so.
Consequently, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr As favour, Ill be doing so only to 
formally require STB to make the £50 payment of compensation to Mr A that theyve already 
offered. I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr A was wanting here, but I hope that 
hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Secure Trust Bank must make a payment of £50 to Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Secure Trust Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman