DRN-4265957
The complaint
Mr T complains about a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mr T took out a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers for a used car. 
The car was around five years old and had covered approximately 66,300 miles. The cash 
price was £21,099. Under the terms of the finance agreement, Mr T was to pay a deposit of 
£1,500, followed by £415.44 each month for the next five years. 
Mr T told us the cars steering failed in December 2020. He took it to a manufacturers 
garage, who said a new steering rack was needed because bolts had sheared. The 
manufacturer covered the cost of that repair.
Mr T said the instrument panel went wrong in November 2021. He said he took the car to a 
garage, where the battery was replaced. That didnt fix the problem, so in January 2022 the 
car was transferred to a specialist garage for the fault to be diagnosed. 
Mr T said the specialist garage suspected water may have got into the electronic control unit 
(ECU). He said that unit was replaced in April 2022, but it didnt resolve the problems with 
the instrument panel. He told us no further repair attempts have been possible due to global 
problems with the supply of parts for the car. 
In May 2022 Mr T complained to Close Brothers that the car wasnt fit for its intended 
purpose for the duration of the agreement, because there were no replacement parts 
available to rectify the fault. 
Mr T contacted Close Brothers again in June 2022, asking what his options were as hed 
been paying for a car hed been unable to use for nearly eight months. He asked whether 
theyd collect the car and terminate the agreement at no further cost. 
Close Brothers advised Mr T that, once the car was fixed, hed be able to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement or sell the car himself and settle the outstanding finance. They also 
gave him the name of a company that offers to buy cars in any condition. 
In July 2022 Close Brothers issued their final response to Mr T, saying they hadnt upheld 
his complaint about the car because he hadnt provided them with evidence showing the 
fault was present or developing when it was supplied. Unhappy with this situation, Mr T 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought there was enough information to persuade her that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T, because she didnt think the ECU casing 
was sufficiently durable. She said Mr T should be able to reject the car, end the agreement, 
and get his deposit back. 
The investigator thought Mr T should receive a refund of the payments hed made since 13 
November 2021, when hed stopped using the car. And she thought they should pay Mr T 
£200 for the distress or inconvenience hed been caused by being supplied with a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
The investigator also thought Close Brothers should reimburse Mr T the £918 he paid to the 
specialist garage in an attempt to diagnose and fix the problem, and the £150 he paid to 
have the car recovered home from the garage.
Close Brothers disagreed with the investigators conclusions. Ill summarise their main 
points:
Mr T brought his complaint to Close Brothers approximately two years after he got 
the car. So, he needs to prove the defects were present or developing when the car 
was supplied to him  or that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time.
The car had covered approximately 3,500 miles by the time the steering rack was 
repaired in January 2021 due to a sheared bolt. Many things can cause this to 
happen, including overstressing the car (such as by towing), debris or torque. No 
engineering evidence had been provided to show the car wasnt durable.
Although Mr T had provided correspondence from the specialist garage which talked 
about the possibility of water ingress into the ECU system, there were no engineering 
comments or testimony about the root cause of the problem. 
The investigator made assumptions that the ECU cover was heavily corroded and 
that this was the cause of the fault. The specialist garage made no reference to this. 
Close Brothers dont believe an unqualified person can make this assessment. 
The images provided of an ECU do not satisfy the burden of proof under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). There could be a multitude of reasons for water 
ingress to the ECU, such as the customer attempting to drive through a body of 
water. 
The invoice for the ECU swap in April 2022 is approximately two years after the car 
was sold, with an unknown mileage completed. If the water ingress was present or 
developing from the time of purchase the fault wouldve come to light much sooner.
Close Brothers asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the matter was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
After reviewing the evidence, I wrote to both parties setting out my initial thoughts on the 
case. I asked Close Brothers about the amount Mr T would be liable to pay if he wished to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement without fixing the car. 
Close Brothers responded on 9 June 2023, saying they now recognised that the option of 
voluntarily terminating the agreement shouldve been discussed with Mr T in June 2022, 
when he asked about his options. 
Close Brothers highlighted the difficulty in assessing the cost of repairing the problem with 
the cars instrument panel without knowing what had caused it. They stressed that it may 
prove to be uneconomical to diagnose and repair. They said this meant theyd be at risk of 
suffering large losses if the car didnt sell, or sold at a significant loss. 
Close Brothers offered three options:
Option 1:  
The threshold for voluntarily terminating the agreement was £13,213.20 - this being 
half the total amount payable.Mr T had paid a total of £16,455.84. So, hed paid a surplus of £3,242.64 above the 
threshold for voluntarily termination.
The settlement figure was £9,327.58. Close Brothers internal commercial calculator 
predicts the vehicle would be likely to fetch around £5,500 at auction. So, theyd face 
a potential loss of £3,827.58.
Close Brothers losses exceed Mr Ts current surplus by £584.94. So they offered to 
allow him to voluntarily terminate the agreement owing this amount.
Option 2: 
Close Brothers offered to send the car for sale at auction.
Once the car has been sold, theyd deduct Mr Ts current surplus from his liability to 
arrive at the amount hed need to pay Close Brothers on voluntary termination. 
Option 3:
Vehicle valuation guides say the cars value in low condition would be £690 less 
than if the car was in average condition. So, Close Brothers offered to allow Mr T to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement owing this amount. 
Theyd retain the surplus hed paid over the voluntary termination threshold to cover 
the loss at auction.
Mr T said he couldnt afford to pay around £600 to terminate the agreement. He said hed 
only just been managing to keep his head above water, due to having to pay for a 
replacement vehicle as well as the monthly payments under this agreement. He said he was 
left with virtually nothing to live on after hed paid essential household bills and vehicle costs.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Ts complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into this complaint.
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T?
The CRA says that, under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that those 
goods will be of satisfactory quality. It goes on to explain things like fitness for purpose, 
freedom from minor defects, and durability can be aspects of quality. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. In this case, I note that the car was around five years old 
and had covered approximately 66,300 miles when it was supplied to Mr T. The cash price 
was £21,099. 
Ive seen evidence showing there have been faults with this car, which Ive considered. 
1. Steering problem  December 2020
Ive seen a copy of an invoice from a manufacturers garage dated 13 January 2021, 
which records the cars mileage to have been 69,808 at that time. It says: confirmed concern of steering failed examined rack and found bolts sheared from electrical motor 
requires new steering rack.
Im pleased to see the steering rack was replaced without charge for Mr T. So, I dont 
find it necessary to decide whether this issue meant the car hadnt been of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to him. 
2. Instrument panel problem  November 2021
Ive reviewed the video clip Mr T provided, showing the problems with the instrument 
panel. The dashboard display showed multiple warnings before completely shutting 
down, although the cars engine carried on running. I consider this to be a significant 
problem  and I think it was reasonable for Mr T to stop using the car until this was 
fixed.
Mr T provided evidence showing the car had travelled around 76,532 miles by the time 
he stopped using it. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that hed had just 
over 17 months and 10,000 miles use of the car before this problem came to light.
Mr T has shown us copies of his correspondence with two garages he approached to 
diagnose and fix the problem. Having reviewed this evidence in detail, Ive seen 
references to a number of things that may have caused the instrument panel to 
malfunction. But Ive seen nothing confirming what has in fact gone wrong  or whats 
most likely to have caused it. 
In an email Mr T sent to a garage after the car broke down on 13 November 2021, he 
said the instrument panel faults appeared after a family member dropped a coin into one 
of the air vents. I note Mr T also mentioned this to the specialist garage, who said Ive 
checked wiring diagrams nowhere I can see that the 5p could go to via that vent should 
cause issues. 
Mr T said the specialist garage suspected water damage to the ECU. Ive seen a copy 
of their invoice dated 14 April 2022, showing a charge for ECU swap out. Mr T 
provided photos of an ECU, showing signs of possible corrosion. But I dont consider 
this to be relevant because he told us that the instrument panel still didnt work properly 
after the ECU was replaced.
Ive seen evidence showing the specialist garage then suggested replacing the clocks. 
Mr T said he hasnt been able to get hold of a set due to supply issues caused by the 
Ukraine war. He says theres no indication as to how long it will be before the necessary 
parts will become available.
Close Brothers will only be liable for problems that are shown to be due to the car not 
having been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Ive seen no evidence showing 
the problem with the instrument panel was present or developing at the time the car was 
supplied  or that it was due to the car not having been reasonably durable. 
For these reasons, whilst I have great sympathy for the very difficult situation Mr T now 
finds himself in, Im not persuaded that the problem with the instrument panel was due 
to the car not having been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So, I dont 
consider him to be entitled to exercise any of the remedies set out in the CRA.
Can the contract be terminated for any other reason?Ive seen evidence showing Mr T asked Close Brothers whether he could return the car and 
terminate the agreement in June 2022. Hes told us they advised him he wouldnt be able to 
return it to them until it was fixed.
Section 99 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says Mr T is entitled to terminate the agreement 
by giving notice at any time. The following section goes on to explain that Mr Ts maximum 
liability would generally be no more than half the total price. But it says the amount he owes 
will be increased if hes contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods, to 
compensate Close Brothers for that.
I think this makes it clear that Mr T had the right to voluntarily terminate the agreement -
whether or not hed complied with his contractual obligations about care of the car. And I 
dont think it would be fair for him to be locked into an agreement for a car hes been unable 
to fix, despite his very best efforts. 
Close Brothers have suggested three options as to how Mr Ts liability could be assessed if 
he wished to voluntarily terminate the agreement. The second option theyve put forward 
takes away the risk of over or under-estimating the cars value, by waiting to see what it will 
fetch at auction before telling Mr T what hell have to pay if he wants to voluntarily terminate 
the agreement. 
I dont think that option would be fair to Mr T. I think he should be told what his liability would 
be in advance, so he can decide whether he wishes to go ahead with voluntary termination. I 
dont think hed be able to decide whether this would be his best course of action without that 
information.
The other options Close Brothers put forward rely on vehicle valuation tools to assess the 
cars loss in value. I appreciate that the car could fetch substantially more or less than either 
of these valuation tools suggest. But I do think thats a risk Close Brothers face with any 
vehicle that hasnt been returned to them in the condition theyd expect. 
Those other suggested options recognise both parties will make losses if Mr T voluntarily 
terminates the agreement early - and look at how those losses should be shared equally 
between the parties. Given the unusual circumstances of this case, I do think thats a very 
fair approach. 
In broad terms, Close Brothers offered to allow Mr T to voluntarily terminate the agreement 
owing around £600. Im aware that another payment was due to be taken on 1 July 2023.  
Mr T said he hasnt cancelled his direct debit instruction and is expecting this payment to be 
taken as normal. So, Id expect that payment to have reduced the amount Mr T owed Close 
Brothers by £415.44.
When thinking about how this matter should be resolved, I bear in mind the length of time its 
been ongoing. I think it wouldve been resolved much sooner if Close Brothers had 
discussed the option of voluntarily terminating the agreement when Mr T contacted them in 
June 2022. I think he made it very clear that he was struggling to find a way to get the car 
fixed. Mr T says he carried on trying to find a way to resolve the problem because thats 
what Close Brothers led him to believe he had to do. 
I think thats been very frustrating and stressful for Mr T. Hes told us hes continued making 
the required monthly payments for this car as well as paying for another vehicle for his family 
to use. He said hes left with no money to spend on family life after hes covered essential 
household bills. If hed been able to terminate this agreement sooner, I think hed have been 
in a position to refinance any outstanding debt in a way that was more sustainable for him in 
the longer term. Thinking about all of this, I think Close Brothers should now allow Mr T to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from him. This means Close 
Brothers should now end the agreement with nothing further for Mr T to pay and record the 
agreement as having been settled.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Close Brothers didnt respond.  
Mr T said he was slightly disappointed that my provisional decision didnt help him repair the 
financial situation hed been left in. But he said he did accept and agree that this was the 
best outcome for both parties involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to change my mind. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Close 
Brothers Limited to:
Allow Mr T to voluntarily terminate the agreement with nothing further for him to pay.
Arrange for the car to be collected.
Record the agreement as having been settled. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman