DRN-4311997
The complaint
Mr N complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Melanite mortgages wont agree to 
remove him from a mortgage that he holds jointly with his former wife.
What happened
Mr N was married and jointly holds an interest only mortgage with his former wife. Topaz is 
the lender. Mr N stopped contributing to the mortgage payments in about 2011. In March 
2022 the Family Court made an Order whereby by a certain date Mr N was to transfer his 
interest in the family home to his wife subject to the Topaz mortgage. Mr N complained that 
Topaz refused an application by his former wife for a transfer of equity (TOE) which would 
have him removed from the mortgage. Mr N has other buy to let mortgages to pay, cant 
raise money to effect repairs on them and cant get a mortgage in his own name. 
Topaz says that in order to remove Mr N it needs his former wife to complete a transfer of 
equity application. But its lending policy is that for a transfer of equity application to proceed 
it requires the account to be transferred to a repayment mortgage, but it says that it was 
advised that this would not be possible as it would be unaffordable. Mr N says that the 
property is worth about £500,000 and theres a balance of about £172,000 owed to Topaz. 
Mr N says that since his divorce he has no beneficial interest in the property and hasnt lived 
in it for over ten years or contributed to the mortgage, so there is no benefit to anyone for 
him to be on the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Topaz was 
entitled to consider the affordability of the transfer from joint owners to single owners when 
considering a TOE. Mr N disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our procedures normally require both parties to a joint account to bring a complaint in 
relation to that account. Mr N brings the complaint on his own account. The parties have 
lived apart for many years and are divorced. Although they still have a joint mortgage 
account, they deal with Topaz separately as two individuals. I recognise that there are 
matters that affect Mr N that may not affect the other party to the account. I have a discretion 
to consider the matter without the involvement of the joint account holder and my view is that 
given these circumstances this is a complaint that I can consider. 
Mr N and his wife are long separated but remain on the title to the property and this 
mortgage. There is now a Court Order dated 10 March 2022 that Ive seen those deals with 
the financial aspects of the matrimonial break-up. In respect of the property subject of the 
mortgage, the Court Order requires Mr N to transfer the home subject to this mortgage and 
another charge to a bank, to his former wife. I assume there to be a second charge. But, the 
court recognises that the lender, namely Topaz, might not agree to the transfer of the legal 
title and it doesnt require Topaz to consent and deals with the legal position in that event. Mr 
Ns former wife, as between her and Mr N, shall be responsible for paying the mortgage. But 
this does not release Mr N from his liability to pay Topaz under the mortgage contract. Mr 
Ns former wife agrees to use her best endeavours to get Mr N released from the mortgage 
and shall indemnify Mr N for any liability under the mortgage. So, according to the Court 
Order unless Topaz agrees Mr N remains liable to pay the mortgage and Mr Ns ex-wife will 
indemnify Mr N for payments he makes under the mortgage.
Mr N would like Topaz to release him from the mortgage. When Mr N and his then wife took 
out this mortgage they jointly provided security for the loan and they both agreed to repay it. 
Mr N has a continuing obligation to pay it because thats what he agreed to do when the 
lender agreed to lend the mortgage money to Mr N and his former wife. Thats why he 
remains on the mortgage. As Mr N agreed to pay the mortgage and the lender lent on the 
basis of it I cant fairly require Topaz to remove Mr N form the mortgage although I know that 
it would suit Mr N if he was removed. 
The mortgage was agreed to as Mr N and his then wifes application met the lenders criteria 
at the time. Topaz is saying that it will agree the transfer of the mortgage if the TOE 
application meets its lending criteria now. That policy is that where two borrowers are 
replaced by a single borrower that the mortgage should be a repayment mortgage. That is 
not simply a policy designed for Mr N but is a long-standing policy and part of Topazs 
lending criteria. Its not our role to decide what criteria a lender should use in considering a 
lending application. If Mr N wanted to resolve the issue of the former family home by having 
him removed from Topazs mortgage and replaced by Mr Ns former wife, the application 
would have to meet Topazs lending policy.  
 
That this is a requirement of the lending policy should not have come a surprise to Mr N. 
There are file notes going back to 2011/12 about the divorce and indeed a note in July 2012 
of Mr N enquiring about a TOE but there was then, like now, arrears on the account. I 
understand then that these were historic arrears going back to 2010, which persisted on the 
account for some years and no application was made then for the TOE. I see that an enquiry 
about a TOE was made in October 2015 when Topaz said that it would consider a TOE, but 
the account would need to be converted to a repayment mortgage. In December 2018, Mr N 
contacted Topaz about a TOE. At that stage a TOE pack was issued but nothing further 
happened. In March 2019 Mr N called about a TOE and I see a reference to the pack that 
had been issued in December 2018. For many years Mr N has been aware that a TOE was 
needed to have him removed from the mortgage and the notes indicate that Topaz was 
always open to discuss what that required to meet its lending criteria.   
There seem to be several problems in meeting this lending criteria. Firstly, Mr Ns former 
wife apparently cant afford to pay the mortgage now even on an interest-only basis never 
mind a repayment basis. Mr N tells me that instead of paying £885.52 per month under the 
interest only mortgage that his former wife pays £250 per month under an arrangement to 
pay. Im not dealing with any application by Mr Ns former wife and Im basing this only on 
information provided by Mr N, but it seems to me that if the mortgage is unaffordable at 
present, its difficult to see how a transfer of equity application could proceed. But the failure 
to make the monthly payments leads to a second problem. As Mr N knows from previously 
raising the issue many years ago, the lender will normally require the arrears to be paid off 
before agreeing a TOE which involves a new mortgage arrangement, and I dont see any 
suggestion from Mr N that they will be paid off. So, for the above reasons I cant fairly require 
Topaz to remove Mr Ns name from the mortgage he holds jointly with his former wife.
There are a number of other issues raised. Because of Mr Ns ex-wifes financial difficulties, 
Topaz agreed a short term reduced payments arrangement which had a knock-on effect on Mr N as it showed the contractual monthly payments (CMPs) not being made. It seems to 
me that because of her financial difficulties the CMPs wouldnt have been made in any event 
and that would have been reflected in the credit files. So, Topazs accommodation of Mrs Ns 
request wouldnt have made any difference to their credit files. I note that Mr N wasnt 
contacted before the reduced payments were agreed. As a joint account holder, I would 
have thought that there should have been contact with Mr N. On the other hand, the reality 
of the situation was that he hadnt made a payment to the mortgage in over a decade and 
this situation had to be dealt with urgently, so I can understand why in this particular situation 
that the bank was understanding to his former wifes financial difficulties and agreed the 
reduced payments with her without reference to him. I note that Topaz then contacted Mr N 
in relation to his former wifes consent to lease application and as a joint account holder in a 
matter involving the letting of a property jointly owned that seems appropriate.
I can see that Mr N is in a very difficult situation. But my role here is to decide whether Topaz 
did anything wrong. Topaz has always been open about its lending policy and what was 
required to obtain a TOE. That policy seems to have been in place for many years and 
should have been known to Mr N and not a surprise to him for any financial planning that 
was required for his divorce. So, I dont consider that Topaz has done anything wrong, and I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Finally, I note that in its letter to Mr N of 23 January 2023, Topaz said that Our records show 
we have confirmed we can reconsider the request, as an exception to our policy, and have 
also confirmed what we require in order to do this. I do need to make it clear, this does not 
mean a TOE will be approved.  Mr Ns objection has been to Topazs policy. I cant see that 
there has actually been a TOE application because of that policy. Although that will involve a 
joint application, the prime mover will be Mr Ns former wife as she would be the sole 
account holder thereafter. The suggestion in this letter indicates that if certain requirements 
are met that Topaz could consider the request as an exception to its policy. I will leave it to 
Mr N if he wants to explore this with Topaz and his former wife.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman