DRN-4344708
The complaint
Mr JN complains that Monzo Bank Ltd rejected his chargeback claim.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr JN purchased goods online from a merchant and paid using his Monzo 
card.
Mr JN received an order confirmation but didnt receive any information about delivery of the 
gioods, so he emailed the merchant. He later received an email saying that his order was on 
the way and a tracking number. When Mr JN attempted to track the item, he found that the 
tracking number wasnt valid. He emailed the merchant but didnt receive a response.
Mr JN contacted Monzo and raised a chargeback. Monzo provided a temporary credit to Mr 
JNs account and began an investigation. 
The merchant challenged the chargeback and provided tracking details which showed that 
the item had been delivered. Monzo notified Mr JN that the merchant had challenged the 
chargeback and asked whether he had received the goods. Mr JN didnt respond to Monzo 
so it rejected the chargeback and advised Mr JN that it would be re-debiting the purchase 
price of the goods.
Mr JN complained to Monzo but it didnt uphold the complaint on the basis that Mr JN hadnt 
responded when it asked him for further evidence.
Mr JN remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that chargeback was an evidence 
based process. He said that the merchant had provided evidence that the goods had been 
delivered and that Mr JN hadnt provided evidence to the contrary when asked to do so by 
Monzo.
Mr JN didnt agree. He said he hadnt received a request for evidence from Monzo. He said 
the tracking information wasnt valid and that the merchant had provided fake details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When dealing with chargebacks, banks and providers of credit need to do so within the remit 
of the rules set by the relevant card scheme.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against the possible chargeback reasons to see what sort of evidence is required. 
This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful claim for the customer. Card 
issuers dont have to submit claims and they will only do so if they believe that they have 
evidence which will back up a chargeback claim so it will be successful. This service expects 
card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to raise a chargeback if there is 
little prospect of success.
Ive looked at the available information to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably 
when it declined the chargeback. 
When the merchant challenged the chargeback, it provided tracking information to Monzo 
which showed that the goods had been delivered to Mr JNs home address on 20 January 
2023.
Monzo sent an information request to Mr JN on 10 April 2023 and asked him to confirm 
whether he had received the goods. Mr JN didnt respond to the information request. Mr JN 
has told this service that he didnt receive the information request. However, Monzo has 
provided persuasive evidence that it sent the information request to Mr JN, so Im satisfied 
that it was sent. I cant say why Mr JN didnt receive it, but Im satisfied that it is correctly 
addressed to him. 
Mr JN has told this service that hes provided evidence to show that the merchant was a 
scammer and that the tracking number was fake. I havent seen this evidence. Theres 
nothing in the information Ive seen to suggest that the tracking information wasnt valid. 
Chargeback is an evidence based process. Having considered the evidence provided by 
both parties here (Mr JN and the merchant), I dont think that Monzo acted unreasonably 
when it declined the chargeback.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to say that Monzo has made an error, or that it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the chargeback. I wont be asking Monzo to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman