DRN-3924686
The complaint
Miss T complains that her application for further lending has been unfairly declined by 
Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Miss T had an existing repayment mortgage with Nationwide since 2018. In 2022, Miss T 
wanted to borrow a further £20,000 to consolidate her existing debts and pay for some home 
improvements. In May 2022 she received a decision in principle (DIP) and submitted the 
application for further lending. This application was declined in September 2022.
Miss T is unhappy with both the decision to decline her application and how it was handled 
by Nationwide staff. She says several issues came up and she was given reassurance 
multiple times that her application would be successful. 
In October 2022 Nationwide paid Miss T £500 compensation to recognise the procedural 
and service issues. It also said the best way forward would be for Miss T to make a fresh 
application due to the time that had passed. However, when Nationwide reviewed Miss Ts 
bank statements it advised her not to apply as it didnt think it was likely to be accepted.
When Miss T complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they said they thought £500 was a fair amount of compensation to reflect the poor 
service Miss T received and that Nationwide had declined her application fairly.
Miss T didnt agree, she said her initial application from May 2022 should have been 
accepted and so she didnt think it was fair for Nationwide to rely on her statements after this 
point (in October 2022) as a reason for not providing the lending. She said no new 
information or statements were provided between her second DIP and the decline decision.
So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, this is because I think Nationwide has now 
put matters right. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that there were multiple issues with Miss Ts May 2020 application for 
further lending which caused delays to the application and additional stress to Miss T. As I 
understand it:
Nationwide initially wouldnt accept the incoming maintenance payments Miss T 
declared on the basis these were cash payments of varying amounts. It subsequently 
agreed to include this in its affordability assessment upon appeal.
Nationwide keyed in an incorrect value for the maintenance payments - £460 was 
used rather than £480. This led to some confusion because Miss T was incorrectly 
told she would need to either extend the term of the mortgage or reduce the amount 
she was applying to borrow.
The valuation in May 2022 didnt take into account that the property was a restricted 
sale property and so a further valuation was undertaken in August 2022 resulting in a 
lower valuation and therefore a higher loan to value (LTV).
Nationwide says at the time the application was being re-considered in September 
2022 there was a difference between Miss Ts declared debt and the debt showing 
on her credit file. Its possible this was because her credit file was updated during the 
time taken to progress her application. But as her debt was higher than declared, this 
raised affordability concerns. 
Miss T has explained that she found this experience very stressful, particularly given this 
was at a time when she was seeking to relieve financial pressures by consolidating her 
debts and reducing her monthly outgoings. Ive reviewed Nationwides contact notes and can 
see she was regularly seeking updates and being reassured her application would progress. 
I agree Nationwide has provided poor customer service here and caused delays to Miss Ts 
application. Nationwide should have been clearer that Miss Ts application wasnt 
guaranteed, and it also should have been able to provide an answer to her application much 
sooner. Having said that, I think the £500 compensation its already paid Miss T is sufficient 
in the circumstances. This recognises the considerable distress and inconvenience to Miss T 
over a matter of months.
Nationwide declined Miss Ts application in September 2022 on the basis that it was 
unaffordable. But it also appears to have recommended a new application due to the time 
that had passed and up to date financial information being needed. I understand Miss T 
thinks Nationwide should now provide the lending if it ought to have at the time. However, as 
Ive said, the compensation awarded recognises Nationwides errors. And I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to provide further lending when a more 
recent assessment of Miss Ts financial circumstances has concluded that she doesnt meet 
its lending criteria  this includes the level of risk its willing to take on. So, Ive considered 
how it handled matters in October 2022 when a further application was discussed.
Nationwide reviewed Miss Ts more recent account statements and identified a significant 
amount of gambling transactions. It has explained that where gambling levels detrimentally 
impact an applicants financial management this is relevant to its review of their credit risk. 
And that the level of gambling on Miss Ts accounts would likely mean her application 
wouldnt be successful  particularly given part of the purpose of the lending was to 
consolidate debt. I think Nationwide has acted in Miss Ts interests by letting her know a 
further application would likely be unsuccessful before she made one. 
Miss T was seeking to consolidate unsecured debt into secured debt and take out further 
lending. So, I wouldnt expect Nationwide to provide further lending that it now doesnt think 
would be responsible or affordable for Miss T  among other things this would increase the 
risk of Miss T losing her home in the future. So, I dont think it would be reasonable (or in the 
interests of either party) to require Nationwide provide the further lending Miss T was 
seeking.
For the reasons explained, I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything further to put 
matters right in the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman