DRN-2174836
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is about a mortgage they have with Santander UK Plc. They are 
unhappy about what was recorded on their credit files following a change being made to the 
repayment method of their mortgage.
What happened
In 2018 Mr and Mrs J had a mortgage on their home with Santander. Due to financial 
difficulties they asked Santander if it would change their mortgage from a repayment 
mortgage to an interest-only one. It agreed to do so. 
At the end of January 2019 Santander sent Mr and Mrs J the documentation they needed to 
sign and return for the change to be processed. Whilst they have said they signed and 
returned it immediately, Santander didnt receive it, so no change was made. This meant 
that the reduced payments fell short of the amount due to be paid under the mortgage 
contract.
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs J about this in January and February 2019 and it attempted 
to contact them by both telephone and text. Mr J contacted Santander in March 2019 and it 
came to light that despite Mr and Mrs J believing their mortgage had been converted, it 
hadnt been as the acceptance signed by Mr and Mrs J hadnt been received by Santander.
A new document was sent to them to sign on 16 March 2019  this was received back by 
Santander on 25 March 2019. From January 2019 Mr and Mrs J had made payments to the 
mortgage on the assumption a lower interest-only payment was due. As such, arrears had 
built up on the account, which Santander reported on Mr and Mrs Js credit files.
The change to the mortgage should have been processed to take effect from 28 March 
2019 and, as the mortgage was paid in arrears, it would have changed the mortgage 
payment amount from 1 May 2019. However, the member of staff at Santander mistakenly 
applied the change as of 1 March 2019 and didnt change the amount payable correctly. 
This resulted in Mr and Mrs Js credit files showing that the mortgage was in arrears of an 
amount equivalent to more than six months from March 2019. Had the change been 
processed correctly to take affect from 28 March 2019, the mortgage wouldnt have been 
reported as having that level of arrears until May 2019. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy about what had happened with their mortgage account. During 
the investigation into their complaint, before it came to light that the change had incorrectly 
been backdated, Santander offered to backdate the switch to 1 March 2019. It was 
explained this would reduce the arrears showing on the account from over £8,000 to less 
than half that amount. However, the consequence of backdating the change was that 
Mr and Mrs Js credit files would show their arrears as six months earlier. 
Mr and Mrs J paid off the mortgage arrears in Jan 2020. They also decided to leave the 
switch at 28 March 2019 so their credit files only showed 6 months of arrears from 
May 2019. 
When Mr and Mrs J discovered their credit files were showing incorrect information, they 
complained. As we were already considering a complaint about the change to the mortgage, 
Santander agreed we could look into the new issue immediately. Santander corrected the 
credit files and this was demonstrated by the credit report provided by Mr and Mrs J in 
mid February 2020. They showed arrears of one month in February, two months in March 
and April, and then six months from May 2019. It showed six months throughout the 
remainder of 2019 and then no arrears from January 2020.
Mr J said the incorrect information on his credit file had affected his ability to get work, given 
the nature of his job, so his income has dropped. This had meant Mrs J had needed to return 
to full-time work and Mr J had needed to take a weekend job. They said they had to borrow 
money from friends and family to repay their debts as they were unable to get further credit. 
In addition, they were unable to renew/obtain car finance to replace their existing 
arrangements. Mr J also said hes been unable to purchase an item on interest-free credit. 
When our investigator asked Santander for its comments about the consequential losses 
Mr and Mrs J had highlighted, it accepted that given what he did for a living, having a clear 
credit file would be important. However, although it had recorded the number of months 
arrears incorrectly for March and April, the credit file would always have shown arrears 
because Mr and Mrs J started paying the interest-only amount before they had returned the 
signed offer and the conversion had happened. 
Our investigator considered all the evidence from both parties and found that Santander had 
made an error in its processing of the change to Mr and Mrs Js mortgage. This had resulted 
in their credit files showing a worse arrears position than they should have. He 
acknowledged this would have been stressful for Mr and Mrs J in an already difficult 
situation. He recommended Santander pay them £150 compensation. In relation to the 
losses which Mr and Mrs J held Santander responsible, the investigator was satisfied that 
there would always have been adverse markers on Mr Js credit file. There was no evidence 
to show the inaccurate number of months detailed on the credit file was the reason for the 
loss of opportunity, rather than the simple fact of there being credit markers. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the investigators view and told him that the amount of the 
compensation was an insult. They said they wanted Santander to honour the receipt of the 
signed acceptance as at the time of its receipt in March 2019. They accepted they were two 
months in arrears as of March 2019 and have accepted that should be recorded on their 
credit files. However, they dont appear to consider the record of the amount of arrears 
should show as more than six months beyond that point. 
Following some further correspondence between Mr and Mrs J and our investigator, 
Mr and Mrs J asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I will make it clear that I will not be 
commenting on any issues my ombudsman colleague covered in her final decision in 
March 2019. Those being whether Santander was reasonable in applying the change to 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage as at the date it did and them being misled about the arrears 
position, leading to them not repaying the arrears sooner. This decision will focus on what 
Santander recorded on Mr and Mrs Js credit files and any potential consequences of those 
records.For clarity, I would confirm that when the number of months of arrears are recorded on a 
credit file, this is not the number of actual payments that have been missed. Rather it is the 
number of months the amount of the arrears equates to, when compared with the 
contractual monthly payment  the amount of arrears divided by the amount of the monthly 
payment. When Mr and Mrs Js mortgage changed to interest-only, the monthly payment 
dropped significantly, which means the arrears balance was being divided by that smaller 
number and so the equivalent number of months increased. This is how arrears are 
calculated for the purposes of credit files and I dont consider Santander did anything wrong 
following normal practice in this regard.
However, Santander did make a mistake when it changed Mr and Mrs Js mortgage and it 
incorrectly backdated the change. This made their credit file show 6 months of arrears two 
months earlier than it should have. In the circumstances I think this would have added to the 
stress and upset Mr and Mrs J were already feeling and I agree with our investigator that 
they should be compensated for that. Whilst I know that Mr and Mrs J wont be satisfied with 
this award, I also agree that £150 is an appropriate amount in the circumstances.
Mr J has said he was unable to get credit and lost out on work contracts because of the 
incorrect information on his credit file. I am not persuaded there is evidence to support that 
position. I accept that given what Mr J does for a living the state of his credit file would be 
important. However, even if Santander hadnt mistakenly backdated the change to 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage, his credit file would still have shown arrears and from the spring of 
2019, arrears of six months. I have seen nothing that indicates the losses were as a result of 
Mr Js credit file showing the wrong number of months for the arrears in March and April 
2019, rather than the simple existence of arrears.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
required Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs J £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman