DRN-3470708
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was not given any notice of the increase in overdraft interest rates 
and charges by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr B held an account with Barclays with an overdraft facility. Barclays wrote to its customers 
about upcoming changes to its overdraft charging structure on 23 January 2020 (coming into 
effect March 2020). It wrote again regarding Mr Bs overdraft usage and charges in 
November 2020 and May 2021.
Mr B complained to Barclays that he wasnt notified of these increases (in particular by text 
message) and requested a refund of charges since the new charging structure commenced.
Barclays says all charges had been applied correctly. It said it wrote to Mr B in advance of 
the change in charging structure and the information regarding overdraft charges was also 
shown on his statements and it is Mr Bs responsibility to check his correspondence and 
manage his account. But as a gesture of goodwill Barclays offered to refund £139.84 of 
charges.   
Mr B was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong as it was entitled to set its own interest rate provided it 
gave Mr B sufficient notice of the changes in interest rates and there were no signs Mr B 
was in financial difficulty. 
Mr B disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he wasnt given notice of the change in interest rates 
charged on his overdraft. Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services and its reasons why is a commercial 
decision. Just like it is up to Mr B to decide whether to accept what Barclays is offering or to 
take his business elsewhere. And providing Barclays notified Mr B of the change in its 
pricing structure in line with the terms and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me 
to get involved with. 
Barclays say Mr B was notified by both letter on 23 January 2020 and email through its 
online banking system about the upcoming changes to its pricing structure regarding 
overdraft lending.
But Mr B says that he never received any letters or emails from Barclays. But Ive seen a 
copy of all the letters and can see that they are correctly addressed, and Barclays internal 
notes show the letters were dispatched and the email address they have for Mr B is correct. I 
havent been given any reason why Mr B might not have received these letters, indeed most 
post is delivered correctly and I think it unlikely that Mr B didnt receive any of the letters or 
emails, so I cant say Barclays was at fault or did anything wrong here. 
And even if he didnt receive notification by email and post the regular bank statements sent 
to Mr B pre-notified him of the overdraft interest charges being applied as well as it sending 
regular statements of fees. So I think its likely Mr B understood what he was being charged 
for the use of the overdraft facility. 
That said, Barclays wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it applied any 
interest, fees and charges to Mr Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr B fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr B unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Bs bank statements I cant see anything to suggest 
that Barclays ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
I can see from Mr Bs statements that Mr B was receiving a healthy salary and other 
incoming payments into his account which allowed him to if not clear the overdraft balance 
significantly reduce it. 
One may argue that regular use of an overdraft was in itself an indication that they are 
struggling. But Mr Bs statements show that a significant proportion of his income was 
transferred to another account on a monthly basis which contributed to his account 
becoming overdrawn and by Mr Bs own admission he had savings he could use to pay the 
overdraft down if he so wished.
 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr B wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Barclays 
to any potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances and when I think Barclays gave Mr B sufficient prior notice of the 
change in interest rates I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Bs account was being used. 
So it follows I dont think Barclays made a mistake or treated Mr B unfairly and I do not 
uphold his complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman