DRN-2661564
The here complaint
Ms S has complained about damage caused by a powerflush that British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BG) advised her to have following a leak.
What happened
Throughout 2019 Ms S had problems with her heating system. On 3 December 2019 a leak 
occurred from the loft into her sons bedroom below. She called BG with whom she had a 
HomeCare agreement. BGs engineer diagnosed that the system was over venting and he 
reduced the pump speed to minimise the problem. It was suggested that Ms S had her 
system powerflushed. BG provided a quote, but it wasnt able to attend until January 2020. It 
recommended that Ms S contact another company, company DW. Company DW carried out 
a powerflush on Friday 13 December. 
Ms S says that within an hour of the powerflush being completed, a considerable amount of 
water was dripping from the ceiling in her sons room, down the wall and over a chest of 
drawers. She contacted BG who sent an engineer out of hours the same day. He said that 
the powerflush hadnt been done properly. He turned the heating pump to its minimum 
setting as a temporary measure to prevent further leaking. He suspected a blocked cold feed 
after the powerflush. He said this would need to be rectified but an engineer wouldnt be able 
to attend to do this until the following Monday,16 December.
Ms S says this affected her arrangements for Friday evening, and she was left with 
inadequate heating over the weekend. She booked a day off work on the following Monday 
for the appointment with BG, but the engineer didnt show. When she contacted BG she was 
told that the appointment had been removed from its system in error. A new appointment 
was scheduled for 20 December, and Ms S arranged another day off work.
The BG engineer who attended on 20 December cut out the restricted cold feed. He also 
noticed that the tank was leaking and a new one was required, which he ordered. He 
returned to fit this on 23 December. Ms S had to take another day off work.
Ms S complained that her central heating system still wasnt effective and radiators still 
werent hot enough. Parts of the house were colder than others and the radiator in her 
bedroom made a gurgling noise. BG returned on 14 February and adjusted radiator valves 
and checked the flue in the loft. It returned again on 7 March and balanced the system, 
changed the pump setting to prevent air in the system, and reported that all radiators were 
hot with no cold spots. Ms S was told to monitor the situation. She says that there were still 
noises from her radiator.
She says that the powerflush didnt rectify the problems, wasnt necessary, and the 
subsequent leak caused considerable damage. She also says she never agreed the cost of 
the powerflush.
BG has said that from 2013 Ms S had been advised on a number of occasions to have her 
system  powerflushed.  It says it had previously replaced her heat exchanger, which is a sign 
of the presence of sludge. A new pump had been fitted in March 2019 which also indicated a 
hot water flow problem due to sludge. It says that even after the new pump was fitted there 
was still an issue, which is a clear sign that there is sludge in the system. It says it advised 
Ms S in March 2019 on a filter to remove sludge in the system but this was declined.
BG says its in no doubt that a powerflush was needed based on what had been recorded in 
its visit history. The issue after the powerflush was a restricted cold water feed and a leak on 
a tank.  The tank was replaced and the cold water feed replaced.
BG says it contacted contractor DW about Ms Ss complaint, and it offered to arrange for the 
wall in Ms Ss sons bedroom to be repaired, but not the ceiling as there was pre-existing 
damage. Contractor DW offered £60 for the damage to the chest of drawers, and BG offered 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill as it hadnt been able to attend before January 2020, and for 
the inconvenience and distress caused. 
Ms S brought a complaint to this service as she isnt satisfied with how BG has resolved 
matters. She says it has caused her stress and upset, and she had to use a number of days 
of annual leave from work to accommodate BG visits. She says shed like her sons room 
and the ceiling repaired, and that she shouldnt be paying for a powerflush that was done 
incorrectly and which caused damage. She says she didnt agree to the fee for the 
powerflush.
Our investigator advised Ms S that this service couldnt consider her complaint to the extent 
that it related to the powerflush itself. In relation to the other areas of Ms Ss compliant, his 
view was that he didnt consider that BG should be required to do anything more than it had 
offered to do. 
Ms S doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Ms Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
As our investigator has correctly informed Ms S, this service only has jurisdiction over 
matters arising from contracts of insurance. BGs HomeServe agreement is a contract of 
insurance, although it does include some non - insurance services, such as annual boiler 
checks. It specifically states that it doesnt cover powerflushing in the following terms:
Over time, gas central heating systems build up sludge that can block or narrow
your pipes, radiators and boiler parts. British Gas Powerflush is our way of 
removing that sludge from your system. Well tell you if your system needs a 
powerflush to work properly. Youll need to pay for it separately  it isnt included in 
your cover.
So Im unable to address any matters arising from the contract for the powerflush as this 
would be outside the jurisdiction of this service, and that includes any issues about its cost, 
and payment for it. Ms S will have to address these directly with BG.
I can however look at what BG did or failed to do before the powerflush and after it as this 
was work carried out under the insurance element of Ms Ss HomeServe agreement.
BG visited Ms S when she reported a leak through her sons bedroom ceiling on 3 
December 2019. BG attended and advised a powerflush. It reduced the pump speed to reduce any issues until a powerflush could be carried out. Ive no reason to believe that 
wasnt an appropriate course of action in the circumstances.
After the powerflush by DW, the leak worsened and caused further damage. In my opinion 
BG isnt responsible for this. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for BG to have advised a 
powerflush  it had made such a recommendation on a number of previous occasions, and 
the parts it had previously replaced suggested that there was a sludge problem.
When Ms S called BG to deal with the leak that followed the powerflushing, BG responded 
out of hours the same day and turned the heating pump to its lowest setting to prevent 
further leaking until a proper repair could be done. An appointment was made for the 
following 16 December and Ms S had the inconvenience of having reduced heating over the 
weekend. Through a BG error, this appointment wasnt kept by BG.  Another appointment 
was made for 20 December. 
In this respect I consider that BGs service was unsatisfactory. Because of BGs failure to 
attend the appointment on 16 December, Ms S had the inconvenience of having to take an 
additional day off work on 20 December. 
Its my view that BGs offer of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable to cover the missed 
appointment on 16 December.
But I consider that it would be unreasonable to require BG to pay for the decoration of Ms 
Ss sons bedroom ceiling following the powerflush as this had already suffered damage from 
the leak reported before the powerflush for which BG wasnt responsible. To the extent that 
there was also damage to the walls, this again followed from the powerflush and so I have 
no jurisdiction over the matter.
As to the continuing problems that Ms S had with her heating system, I can appreciate Ms 
Ss frustration that despite her powerflush her system still wasnt operating to the expected 
level. BG attended again on 14 February and 7 March 2020 and made adjustments to 
balance her system and remove air.
I cant say that BG has done anything specifically wrong here. Its often the case that the root 
cause of a problem can be hard to identify correctly straight away and that some trial and 
error is necessary. Whilst this can cause inconvenience, not every inconvenience justifies 
compensation.  For us to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a 
business's actions has been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the 
inconvenience and upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our 
dealings with other people and businesses. We're unlikely to tell a business to pay 
compensation unless what the business did or failed to do had a significant impact on a 
particular customer. With regards to the visits by BG needed to get Ms Ss heating system to 
work as expected, I dont consider that this threshold has been reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint and I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything other than to pay her the compensation it has 
previously offered her unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Nigel BremnerOmbudsman