DRN-2921138
The complaint
Ms l is unhappy with the service that she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding her 
efforts to transfer money overseas.  
What happened
Ms L approached HSBC to arrange a foreign currency transfer. The transfer form was 
completed in branch and Ms L signed this form to confirm that shed checked the information 
inputted on the form was correct.
Unfortunately, the information on the transfer form wasnt correct and the transfer was 
returned to Ms Ls account. However, in the time that had elapsed since Ms L initially 
instructed the transfer to the time that the money was returned, the currency exchange rate 
had moved against Ms L such that she incurred an exchange rate loss of £4,008.34. Ms L 
wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
HSBC looked at Ms Ls complaint, but they noted that Ms L had been given the opportunity 
to check the transfer details for accuracy before the transfer was initiated. Because of this, 
HSBC didnt feel that they should be considered responsible for the failure of the transfer, 
and so they didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Ms L wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that HSBC shouldnt be held 
responsible for the incorrect information being confirmed on the form. However, our 
investigator noted that HSBC could have arranged a direct transfer of funds to Ms Ls 
intended recipient without the need for the money to be returned to Ms Ls UK HSBC 
account, so that Ms L didnt incur the significant exchange rate loss that she did. 
Because of this, our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ms Ls favour 
and that HSBC should reimburse the £4,008.34 to Ms L along with 8% interest.
HSBC didnt respond in a timely manner to the recommendation put forwards by our 
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms L first instructed the monetary transfer, she was given the opportunity to check 
that the details inputted onto the form were correct before the transfer was initiated. Because 
of this, regardless of whether the details were inputted onto the form incorrectly by Ms L or 
by HSBC staff, Im satisfied that Ms L was given a fair opportunity to correct any wrongly 
inputted information before the money was sent, and so I dont feel that I can reasonably 
consider HSBC as being responsible for Ms Ls monetary transfer being actioned with 
incorrect recipient account details in the first instance. 
However, Im not convinced that HSBCs management of the situation after the initial 
transfer attempt was fair and reasonable, and I say this because it appears that HSBC led 
Ms L to believe that the only option available to her was to have the transferred money 
returned to her UK account at a considerable loss.
Ms L has stated that she received a telephone call from HSBC advising her that the money 
would be returned to her UK account but that because of the movement in the relevant 
exchange rate the amount that would be returned would be approximately £4,000 less. I 
have no reason to doubt Ms Ls testimony in this regard, although HSBC havent been able 
to locate this telephone call, so I havent been able to review it.   
HSBC have confirmed that it would have been possible to arrange to transfer the sent 
money to the correct intended recipient details without the need to return the money to Ms 
Ls UK account and so to have done so without Ms L incurring the exchange rate loss that 
she did  albeit at the cost of a clear audit trail from Ms Ls account to her intended recipient.
HSBCs submissions to this service about this matter have been somewhat confusing. After 
initially informing this service of the possibility of such an option, HSBC then advised that it 
wasnt possible because of potential fraud concerns, only to then suggest that this option 
was possible but that it was HSBCs preference to return the money to the senders account.
In this instance, given that HSBC didnt inform Ms L that such an alternative option existed, it 
appears that HSBC have implemented that preference without fair consideration of the 
specific circumstances of this case and of the impact that doing so would have on Ms L  
namely, that she incurred a loss of £4,008.34.
This doesnt feel fair to me, and so I will be upholding this complaint in Ms Ls favour and 
instructing HSBC to reimburse the £4,008.34 to Ms L along with 8% simple interest.
Putting things right
HSBC must reimburse Ms L the £4,008.34 along with 8% simple interest calculated from the 
date the money was transferred back to her UK account such that the exchange rate loss 
was first incurred to the date that HSBC make the reimbursement payment.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman