DRN-3385948
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1989. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr D disagreed with 
that view. They said they were not made aware PPI had been added to their mortgage and 
that they did not agree to it. In Mrs and Mr Ds view, the benefits of the policy were limited in 
light of their good health and public sector employment. 
As the matter could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr D, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Halifax couldnt tell us definitively how it thought the policy came to be sold. Mrs and Mr D 
told us the cover was sold in a Halifax branch. I accept what they told us on that point. I cant 
know what was said during that meeting. Halifax doesnt have any contemporaneous 
documentation from that time. However, I have seen some of its electronic records. 
Somewhat understandably, Mrs and Mr D are unable to recall precisely what happened back 
in 1989 when the cover was sold. 
Accordingly, where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are here), I have to apply the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I must decide what is most likely to have happened 
based on the evidence before me. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs and Mr D would have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Mrs and Mr D say they were 
not aware of the policy. And I accept that what theyve told me is what they honestly 
remember. But I also have to bear in mind, as Mrs and Mr D have indicated themselves, that 
it is difficult to recall precisely what happened over 30 years ago when this policy was sold. 
Looking at Halifaxs electronic records, it looks as though there was some discussion about 
insurance generally. I can see that the endowment policy and buildings insurance appear to 
have been discussed. And information as to Mrs and Mr Ds dates of birth has been provided 
in the PPI section of those electronic records. I can also see from the electronic information 
that its likely PPI was set out as a separate transaction on Mrs and Mr Ds mortgage 
statements. I appreciate Mrs and Mr D genuinely now dont remember, but on balance, it 
seems to me most likely that there was a discussion about PPI at the point of sale
Ive treated this as an advised sale, which means Halifax had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs and Mr Ds needs. To help me decide whether the cover 
was likely suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And Ive also thought carefully about what Mrs and Mr D told us about their personal 
circumstances at the relevant time. 
Halifax told us that if Mrs and Mr D had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 50% of their 
mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 24 months if Mrs or Mr D were off 
sick from work. If they were both off sick at the same time, the full mortgage repayments 
would have been met each month for up to 24 months. Similarly, 50% of their mortgage 
repayments would have been covered if one of them was made redundant for up to 12 
months. If they were both made redundant at the same time, the full monthly mortgage 
repayments would have been met. 
I know that Mrs and Mr D were employed in the public sector at the point of sale. They told 
us they were entitled to more than 12 months pay if they were off sick from work. It is not 
clear to me whether their case is that they would have been entitled to full pay for that 
duration. That would have been a more generous package than I would expect. But even if 
that were the case, the PPI would still have lasted for longer than their sick pay entitlement. 
And looking at how long theyd been in their respective jobs, I think the cover would have 
also lasted for longer than their contractual redundancy entitlement. 
Mrs and Mr D told us that they didnt need cover because their family members would have 
been able to help them out if they became unwell or if they lost their jobs. I dont at all doubt 
that it would have been the intention of those family members to assist Mrs and Mr D. But 
theres no guarantee that support would have been available to Mrs and Mr D as and when 
they needed it. I must stress that Mrs and Mr Ds borrowing was secured on their home, and 
it could have been at risk if they fell behind with their repayments. 
Ive also considered whether Mrs or Mr D would have been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions. Mrs and Mr D told us that they were both in good health at the time the policy 
was sold. I havent seen anything unusual about their employment circumstances that would 
have stopped them from being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. 
Putting all of this together then, Im satisfied that Halifaxs recommendation to Mrs and Mr D 
was suitable for their needs at the relevant time. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mrs and Mr D enough information about the cover so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. Given how long ago 
the PPI was sold, I accept its possible Halifax didnt tell Mrs and Mr D everything it should 
have done about the cover. But Ive set out above how the PPI could have been helpful to 
Mrs and Mr D if one or both of them was out of work. I cant reasonably say that more or 
better information about the PPI would have caused them to act differently and objectively, I 
think they would have taken the policy out in any event. 
I can see that Mrs and Mr D raised some commission arguments in their PPI questionnaire. I 
can see their mortgage was taken out in 1989 and it was redeemed in 1998. That means the 
unfair relationship provisions established by the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin and the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment arent applicable in this case. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs D and Mr D, but for the reasons I have set out above, I dont 
uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman