DRN-3418373
The complaint
Mr M claims Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt automatically upgrade his easy access account 
when higher interest rates became available.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Our service doesnt have the power to tell Shawbrook how they should manage 
accounts, or what interest rates to apply to them. However, we can investigate 
whether Shawbrook has acted fairly and reasonably, given the relevant terms and 
conditions that apply to the account in question. So, for me to say Shawbrook treated 
Mr M unfairly, Id need to be satisfied hes been treated differently to other customers 
with similar circumstances.
Shawbrook has explained an easy access account with a different interest rate would 
be deemed a new product. Theyve also said its not their policy to proactively tell 
existing customers about the latest products they have available. For me to make a 
finding on whether that is in fact the case, Ive had to consider what Mr M would have 
been told about easy access accounts.
Mr Ms account was one that could only be opened online, so I reviewed the 
information available on Shawbrooks website. In doing so, I saw Shawbrook 
explained the interest rate is variable, and Im satisfied that explanation was 
sufficiently clear. I also noted there was nothing on the website that suggested 
Shawbrook would upgrade an easy access account if the same type of account, with 
a higher interest rate, became available.
Shawbrooks website tells customers to read the key product information that applies 
to easy access accounts. It also tells customers to read the terms and conditions for 
personal savings accounts. I was pleased to see their website referred customers to 
the relevant section of the terms and conditions about interest rates and changes to 
them. Given this level of information made readily available, Im satisfied Shawbrook 
did enough to tell customers where they could find information about what would 
happen if interest rates changed.
Having reviewed both the key product information and terms and conditions, Ive 
noted that Shawbrook doesnt say an account will be upgraded if a higher interest 
rate product becomes available. Given this information is available to all Shawbrook 
customers, and in the absence of evidence to show this approach isnt applied to all 
customers, I cant reasonably say Shawbrook treated Mr M unfairly when they didnt 
proactively upgrade his account. 
The terms and conditions say a customer can move their balance from one 
Shawbrook account to another. Shawbrook arranged for Mr Ms easy access account 
to be upgraded to one with a higher interest rate within two days of receiving his 
complaint. This is what I would have expected Shawbrook to do, so Im pleased this 
was done quickly.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M hoped for, but for the reasons above, I do not uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman