DRN-3479001
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined their claim for 
their daughters stolen items under their home insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy that 
Aviva recorded the claim as fraudulent.  And that Aviva have asked them to cover the cost of 
the claim investigation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R held home insurance with Aviva at the time of the claim. The policy provided 
cover for theft or attempted theft of contents. The policy also included student contents 
cover. 
On 24 August 2020 Mr and Mrs Rs daughter and son called Aviva to report a claim for items 
stolen from outside of the insured address. The student contents cover still provided cover 
for the student daughter, but not for the working son. Aviva said they didnt completely 
understand the circumstances of the claim after it was reported. So they appointed a loss 
adjuster to investigate and review the claim. 
The loss adjuster interviewed Mr and Mrs Rs daughter on 15 September 2020. She 
explained what had happened and listed some items that had been stolen. She said shed 
had to leave the property where the theft had occurred quickly. And that shed left lots of her 
things behind. But that when she returned, she found her locked room had been broken into 
and her things had been stolen. 
Mr and Mrs Rs children told Aviva that their landlord didnt tell them that the other tenant 
was a drug user and had mental health issues, even though he knew this to be the case. 
They said they had to leave the shared property quickly as they hadnt felt safe.
Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs Rs daughter the day after the interview to ask for more 
information. The letter included claim inventory forms for the items being claimed for. They 
sent a chaser on 1 October 2020 as they hadnt received a reply. 
Aviva got the police crime report on 23 November 2020. At this point they noted that there 
were some differences between the testimonies provided. So they asked for clarification 
around the events that had taken place.
Mr and Mrs R replied to Aviva. But they werent satisfied with the response. And asked for 
more information about the circumstances of the theft and the items stolen. Once theyd 
received the requested information, Aviva declined the claim. They felt that different items 
had been provided in the loss lists. And they didnt consider the explanations they were 
given supported the claim. So they repudiated the claim on 11 December 2020. Mr and Mrs 
R cancelled the policy on 14 December 2020. Aviva cancelled the policy from inception and 
applied the fraud condition on 21 December 2020.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with Avivas decision. So they complained. Aviva issued their 
final response letter on 30 December 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint. They said they 
maintained their decision to repudiate the claim due to fraud. 
Mr and Mrs R were still unhappy. In particular they wanted to challenge the fact that their 
claim had been deemed fraudulent. So they brought their complaint to this service. They told 
this service that when their daughter first gave Aviva the list of stolen items she couldnt 
remember everything that was missing. They said that the second list of items was 
incomplete. They said their daughter had handwritten it and had been adding to it over time 
as and when she remembered other items. They said that the final list theyd provided was a 
complete list of the stolen items. And that theyd either provided photos of those items, or 
receipts to prove ownership of the items listed. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with Aviva that the 
three lists were considerably different from each other. And they also felt that Aviva hadnt 
made it clear that changes couldnt be made. They also said that they werent told that items 
that they didnt have proof for could also be submitted. Mr and Mrs R were also unhappy 
with the customer service theyd had from Aviva. In particular Avivas comment that their 
daughter had effectively brought the theft on herself. They felt it was unfair of Aviva to say 
this when their daughter couldnt have known that her things would be stolen. Mr and Mrs R 
also dont think its fair that theyve been asked to pay back the investigation costs Aviva 
have incurred.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Aviva had acted 
fairly and in line with the policys terms and conditions when theyd refused the claim on the 
basis that some elements of it were dishonest or exaggerated. She said this as she felt that 
several items noted during the first notification of loss call werent included in the second or 
final list provided. She felt that by the time the final list was submitted Mr and Mrs Rs 
daughter ought to have had enough time to recall all the stolen items. Our investigator didnt 
think that Aviva had acted unfairly when theyd commented that their daughter had put 
herself into a situation where her things might be stolen. She said it was the policyholders 
responsibility to keep their possessions secure. Overall she felt that Aviva had considered 
the claim fairly and declined it properly on the basis of the discrepancies in the loss lists 
provided. So she felt it was fair that theyd also cancelled the policy. She also felt it was fair 
under the circumstances that Aviva had approached Mr and Mrs R to reclaim the 
investigation costs. She said the policy terms stated that Aviva could take legal action if they 
felt fraud had taken place. She also felt that Aviva had the responsibility to ensure that 
insurance databases were updated to reflect any fraud outcome. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigator. In particular, they were unhappy that theyd 
been accused of fraud. They said they had only listed the items that they had either proof of 
purchase or evidence of ownership. They said that their daughter couldnt have been 
expected to remember all the things shed left in the property where the theft had taken 
place, as she had left the property so quickly. They also said that their daughter had been in 
the property for such a short time, she hadnt even unpacked all her belongings. They also 
acknowledged that their daughter had left high-value items in the property. They said she 
hadnt been able to take them with her when she left as there was limited space in their 
cousins car. And limited time for her to gather her belongings. They said she only took her 
everyday items. This was because shed only intended to stay away from the property for a 
few days while she was looking for another place to move into. And that shed needed to 
move due to the conflict with the other tenant. Mr and Mrs R also said this was the first time 
theyd claimed on their insurance. And that they didnt know how the claims process worked. 
Therefore they didnt know that they werent supposed to amend the list of items being 
claimed. They said they didnt include the electrical equipment theyd first told Aviva about in 
the final list as it was so old they didnt feel it should be replaced. They felt Aviva hadnt told 
them what they should or shouldnt do. And that theyd been misled during the investigation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 12 April 2022. It said:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I dont agree with our investigator that Aviva acted fairly 
when they rejected the claim because some elements of it were dishonest or exaggerated. 
Therefore I dont agree that the claim was fairly declined. Nor do I agree that Mr and Mrs R 
should be expected to pay Aviva back for their investigation costs, or have their claim 
recorded on the fraud database. 
When this service looks at fraud cases, we weigh up the evidence and question anything 
that doesnt feel right, as we would do normally. But we also need to remember that fraud is 
a serious matter, so if thats what the business thinks happened then we might need more 
evidence than usual. Theres no need for Aviva to prove their case beyond reasonable 
doubt. But they do need to show that its more likely than not the consumers claim is 
fraudulent.
In this case, Aviva consider that there have been a series of inconsistencies that, when put 
together, persuaded them that fraud had been committed. But, having looked at all the 
evidence, I dont agree that this is a fair or reasonable conclusion to have drawn. Ill explain 
why. 
Aviva consider that Mr and Mrs Rs claim was exaggerated. From what Ive seen, they feel 
this way because Mr and Mrs Rs daughter provided three different lists of items stolen. 
Mr and Mrs R and their have said that this was the first time theyd claimed on their 
insurance. So they didnt know how the claims process worked. And they didnt know that 
they shouldnt change the list of items they were claiming for as and when their daughter 
remembered other items that were missing. They said Aviva hadnt told them what they 
should or shouldnt do. And felt that theyd been misled during the investigation. 
From what Ive seen, there was a fairly complicated set of circumstances leading to the 
claim. So I can understand why, after Mr and Mrs Rs children made the first notification of 
loss (FNOL) call, Aviva wanted more information from them about the theft. But I consider 
that Aviva made errors in their understanding of the circumstances surrounding the claim. 
And Im satisfied that this misunderstanding incorrectly influenced Avivas decision to 
decline. I say this because four different people (the policyholders daughter, son, cousin and 
his son) all had their items taken from the shared house in the incident. They all returned to 
the policyholders house, many miles away from the shared house on 7 March 2020. The 
police report wasnt filed by the policyholders son or daughter, but by their cousins son. And 
the items referenced in that report presumably belonged to him. But Aviva declined the claim 
at least in part because those items differed from the ones being claimed for. 
Aviva also said that the policyholders daughter had told them that she visited the property in 
March 2020, after shed left. But that she then said she hadnt. But from what Ive seen, she 
didnt ever say shed been back in March 2020. Her mums cousin went back. So Im not 
satisfied that Aviva drew correct conclusions about the claim as they dont appear to have 
fully understood the circumstances. 
I asked Aviva to comment on what I felt was their misunderstanding of the circumstances 
surrounding the theft. They said that three different loss lists were submitted. And that not all 
the items on the final list had been substantiated, despite the policyholders assertion that 
theyd only listed the items that they had either proof of purchase or evidence of ownership. 
They also said that there was a lack of clarity about who was at the property where the theft 
had taken place when the theft was reported. They said: On the FNOL call Mrs Rs son 
advised he went to the property on 15th March but was unable to gain access. He advises we but it is not clear who else was there. Aviva said that they saw no reason to change 
their decision on the repudiation of the claim: due to the circumstances and the lack of 
corroborative information on the items stolen.
Avivas position is that the claim was repudiated for both the circumstances  which I 
believe they didnt fully understand. And the lack of corroborative information  that is, the 
loss lists differed. 
Mr and Mrs R said that their daughter hadnt been able to remember all the things shed left 
behind, as she had left the property so quickly. And that some of her belongings hadnt even 
been unpacked because shed lived there for such a short time. They also explained that 
shed had to leave high-value items in the property, because there was limited space in her 
cousins car. They said she hadnt planned to leave the items in the property for more than a 
few days. 
From what Ive seen, the policyholders daughter provided Aviva with evidence that she had 
intended to move back to a new property near the one shed so quickly left. But, due to 
lockdown, shed decided to change her plans. She provided evidence of viewing 
appointments for new properties, and an email from her place of study showing that it had 
been her intention to only be away for a week or two. Therefore Im persuaded that she had 
never intended to leave her belongings for more than a week or two. And that she was able 
to prove this to Aviva.
The evidence shows that the items were left in a locked room. Mr and Mrs Rs daughter 
expected to be returning in a few days time. But, due to covid-19 lockdowns, she didnt 
return until August 2020, over five months later. Under these circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that it was fair for Aviva to say Mr and Mrs Rs daughter had put herself in a 
position where a theft might occur. Five months had passed between Mr and Mrs Rs 
daughter leaving the property in a hurry and returning and noticing the theft. Therefore its 
not surprising that she couldnt immediately remember what had been stolen. I acknowledge 
that Avivas position is that Mr and Mrs Rs daughter then had time to put together a correct 
final list. But note that Mr and Mrs R said this was the first time theyd claimed on their 
insurance. And that they didnt know how the claims process worked. Therefore they didnt 
know that they werent supposed to amend the list of items being claimed. 
The first loss list was given on the FNOL call. From listening to the call, Im not persuaded 
Aviva made it clear how important it was that the policyholders daughter recall everything 
that had been stolen at this. Clearly the policyholders daughter wasnt in a position to 
remember everything that was missing at that time as shed not had access to the missing 
items for over five months. The second loss list provided to Aviva was a handwritten list that 
the policyholders daughter said she was adding to over time as she remembered new items 
which were missing. And the third loss list was put together following Avivas request for 
substantiated items. The policyholders felt this list required either proof of ownership through 
photos or receipts. 
Our investigator said she wasnt persuaded by the policyholders reasoning about the third 
list because theyd included items on that list that they didnt substantiate. She was also 
unsure about why items theyd noted on the two previous lists, especially the electrical items 
initially reported during the claim notification, werent also included here. As noted above, Mr 
and Mrs R said they didnt include the electrical equipment theyd first told Aviva about in the 
final list as it was so old they didnt feel it should be replaced. I think this is a reasonable 
stance to take. And while I acknowledge that the third list did contain items that werent 
substantiated, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R and their daughter took reasonable steps to try 
to provide a final list that included all of the lost items. They hadnt made a claim before. And 
they didnt feel that Aviva helped to guide them through the claims process. They didnt know they couldnt amend the loss lists. I consider that it was reasonable that they didnt initially 
know exactly what had been stolen given the amount of time that had passed since they last 
had the stolen items in their possession. So I consider that in the circumstances of this theft 
it wasnt surprising that it was difficult to bring everything that had been stolen to mind. And I 
dont agree with our investigator that by the time of the third list, the policyholders wouldve 
had time to be certain about what was lost, given the circumstances of the loss and the time 
that had passed. 
Aviva have confirmed that Mr and Mrs Rs daughter wouldve been covered for a maximum 
of £1,000 for personal belongings and £1,000 for gadget cover.  They acknowledged that 
this was not advised on the FNOL call. Ive listened to that call. Mr and Mrs Rs daughter 
was unsure about whether she could make a claim at all. Her brothers potential claim was 
dismissed during the call, due to him no longer being covered under his parents policy. 
I asked Aviva to confirm their normal process for a claim under personal items cover where 
the claim exceeds the limit of cover. They confirmed that they expect customers to prove 
their loss. And noted that the policy booklet states (on page 8), what the claimants duties 
are when making a claim. This states:
To help us settle your claim
It is your responsibility to prove any loss and therefore we may ask you to provide receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards and any other relevant 
information, documents and assistance we may require to help with your claim.
I also asked Aviva to comment on the fact that it appeared likely that the policyholders 
daughter could easily evidence £1,000 of personal belongings losses and £1,000 of gadget 
losses to their satisfaction, so she had nothing to gain by exaggerating her claim. Because 
any potential exaggeration wouldve had no impact on her claim. Id also seen no evidence 
that Aviva had confirmed to Mr and Mrs Rs daughter the maximum amount she was 
covered for under her parents policy during the FNOL. As such, I said I was struggling to 
understand why an investigation costing £1,690 had been warranted. I wanted to understand 
why Aviva considered that it was fair and reasonable to embark on a costly investigation 
when I felt that clear communication of the actual cover couldve avoided the need for that 
investigation. Aviva said that they take all potentially fraudulent claims very seriously and it is 
a business decision to investigate these thoroughly regardless of the cost of the claim.
I acknowledge that the policy terms and conditions state the following:
If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any benefit under this 
policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy immediately and 
backdate the cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action 
against you.
Our investigator felt that this term allowed Aviva to refuse this claim. But I dont agree thats 
the case here. 
From what Ive seen, due to the complicated circumstances surrounding the theft, and the 
three different loss lists, Aviva concluded that there had been an exaggerated or dishonest 
claim. But I disagree for a number of reasons. First, as I noted above, Im not satisfied that 
Aviva fully understood the circumstances of the complaint. Second, Im not persuaded that 
the losses were exaggerated or dishonest. I consider that its more likely that the 
policyholders daughter simply didnt fully understand the process she was expected to 
follow. While the policy booklet does include some information, Im dont consider that it fully 
explains what a policyholder has to provide. From what Ive seen, she amended the loss list as and when she realised shed no longer got something shed used to own. I consider that 
its only to be expected that someone wouldnt necessarily immediately remember 
everything theyd taken to a new house over five months ago. And that theyd only realise 
exactly what had been stolen over time. I acknowledge that Aviva require a consistent loss 
list to be provided. But Im not persuaded that this was ever properly explained to Mr and 
Mrs Rs daughter. I think that if it had been, she wouldve done what was required of her. 
I also note that the Supreme Court has already outlined an important difference between a 
fraudulently exaggerated claim and a justified claim thats supported by lies that wont make 
a real difference. It said that where a claim has been fraudulently exaggerated, the insured is 
trying to get something to which he isnt entitled. This means that an insurer can refuse the 
entire claim, even if other parts of the claim were genuine and not exaggerated, because the 
law doesnt separate those genuine parts from the dishonest part. But Im satisfied that this 
claim was a justified claim. Aviva werent satisfied that it was a genuine claim due to the 
inconsistencies in the loss lists. But Im satisfied that given more than five months had 
passed since the items had been in the policyholders daughters possession, it wouldve 
been extremely difficult to remember everything perfectly. And Im not persuaded that the 
failure to remember everything perfectly shouldve made a real difference to the fair outcome 
of the claim. I say this given the number of items stolen and the level of cover available to Mr 
and Mrs Rs daughter. From the evidence presented, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs Rs 
daughter fraudulently exaggerated her claim. But even if she had, Im not satisfied that any 
possible exaggerations wouldve made her claim more likely to be paid. And Im not satisfied 
that any possible exaggerations wouldve resulted in the claim being higher than it wouldve 
otherwise been. Therefore I dont consider that Avivas conclusion that this was a fraudulent 
claim was fair or reasonable. Im satisfied that if Aviva had taken more time to understand 
the circumstances, and to explain how the loss list should be put together, they wouldnt 
have concluded that this was a fraudulent claim. And therefore they wouldnt have incurred 
the investigation costs or cancelled the policy due to fraud.
Putting things right
I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to take the following actions to put things right:
Reconsider the claim for theft under the remaining terms of the policy. As the policy 
was cancelled under the fraud condition, they may need to reinstate it to allow the 
claim to be reconsidered. 
Simple interest at 8% per year should be added to any payment due (less tax if properly 
deductible) from the date of loss until the date of settlement. 
Remove any records added to internal or external databases relating to a fraudulent 
claim having been made
Cover the cost of the fraud investigation themselves.
Pay Mr and Mrs R £500 for the significant stress and inconvenience theyve caused. I 
consider this is fair compensation given Aviva blamed Mr and Mrs Rs daughter for 
having her things stolen. And given the actions they took against them after they 
unfairly determined their claim was fraudulent. 
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt reply to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs R had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new evidence has come to light, so I remain of the view I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to take the following actions to put things right:
Reconsider the claim for theft under the remaining terms of the policy. As the policy 
was cancelled under the fraud condition, they may need to reinstate it to allow the 
claim to be reconsidered. 
Simple interest at 8% per year should be added to any payment due (less tax if properly 
deductible) from the date of loss until the date of settlement. 
Remove any records added to internal or external databases relating to a fraudulent 
claim having been made
Cover the cost of the fraud investigation themselves.
Pay Mr and Mrs R £500 for the significant stress and inconvenience theyve caused. I 
consider this is fair compensation given Aviva blamed Mr and Mrs Rs daughter for 
having her things stolen. And given the actions they took against them after they 
unfairly determined their claim was fraudulent. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Aviva must take the actions detailed in 
the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman