DRN-4287689
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L purchased a single trip travel insurance policy on 12 June 2022. The policy covered 
various pre-departure and post-departure risks, for a trip abroad Mr L was due to take 
between 6 August 2022 and 14 August 2022.
Mr L has explained that as part of the trip he had booked through a holiday tour operator he 
was supposed to be collected by a coach, from an agreed departure point. But he said the 
coach never collected him. So, he didnt go on the trip as planned.
Its my understanding that Mr L attempted to obtain a refund from the holiday tour company 
but was unsuccessful. So, Mr L contacted Great Lakes to make a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
Great Lakes reviewed Mr Ls claim and declined it. Great Lakes said that Mr Ls policy only 
provided cover for the cancellation or curtailment of a trip in certain, listed circumstances. 
And it said that the tour operators failure to pick up Mr L at his departure point wasnt one of 
those listed reasons. So, it said it couldnt settle Mr Ls claim. 
Mr L was dissatisfied with this decision, and so raised a complaint about the matter. Great 
Lakes later responded to this complaint and maintained its position. 
As Mr L remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ls complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that Great Lakes had acted fairly in declining Mr Ls claim, because the policy terms and 
conditions didnt provide cover for the situation Mr L found himself in. So, our investigator 
didnt recommend that Great Lakes do anything differently.
Mr L didnt agree. He considered that the tour company werent refunding him his costs, and 
the insurer was acted unfairly in not settling is claim. 
As Mr L didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr L. Its clear he feels strongly about the 
matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered all information provided to this 
service. However, when explaining my decision, Ive only referred to information and 
evidence relevant to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
Its also important to note that Im aware Mr L is dissatisfied with the firm he booked his 
holiday through. But this service is only looking at whether Mr Ls insurer has acted fairly or 
not. It isnt within this services remit to consider the actions of the tour operator he booked 
the holiday with. So, I havent commented on anything in relation to that. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must not unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about whether Great 
Lakes acted in line with this requirement when it declined to settle Mr Ls claim.
Ive also reviewed Mr Ls policy documentation, to see what cover the policy provided. I can 
see that the policy does provide cover for cancellation of a trip before its begun, and the 
need curtail a trip after its beginning. But, as is usual with policies of this nature, it doesnt 
cover every circumstance where a trip might be cancelled or curtailed. Instead, cover is only 
provided if the reason for cancelling or curtailing the trip is listed as something covered by 
the policy. If the reason for the trip not going ahead as planned isnt listed, then the situation 
isnt covered, and the policy doesnt respond.
Given this, Ive looked to see whether the reason Mr Ls trip didnt go ahead is something 
listed under the policy Mr L has. Having reviewed the cancellation and curtailment sections 
of Mr Ls policy Im aware that the need to cancel or curtail a trip because of issues such as 
the unforeseen illness of the policyholder, jury service or redundancy are covered. 
But Im satisfied there isnt a reason listed that is relevant to Mr Ls circumstances. Mr L has 
explained he couldnt take his trip, because the tour operator didnt pick him up from the 
coach station it should have done. As this isnt something listed as covered, Im satisfied 
Great Lakes acted fairly in declining the claim. 
In addition to this, Im aware that the policy explains that for both cancellation and 
curtailment section, the following is not covered:
failure by the provider of any part of the booked trip to supply the service or transport 
(whether as a result of error, insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, omission, default or 
otherwise), unless the event is specifically covered by this policy. You should direct any 
claim in this case against the provider instead.
There isnt any event specifically covered under the cancellation and curtailment sections 
that provide cover for the failure to supply Mr Ls transport. And, looking at the remainder of 
Mr Ls policy, Im aware there isnt another applicable section that provides cover either. So, 
Im satisfied Great Lakes acted fairly, and in line with the terms of the policy Mr L purchased, 
when declining the claim. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman