DRN-2417579
The complaint
Mr and Mr D complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined their 
claim against their annual travel insurance policy following cancellation of their trip.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I dont think that LV acted unfairly on unreasonably in initially declining Mr and Mr Ds 
claim. Its for Mr and Mr D to show that they suffered a loss and they hadnt shown 
that here. Thats because the vouchers offered by the train operator compensated  
Mr and Mr D for their loss. I dont agree that the offer of the vouchers was worthless 
at the time it was made, although I appreciate that Mr and Mr D didnt want to take up 
the offer. 
LV said it would reconsider Mr and Mr Ds claim if they provide evidence that the train 
companys offer of a voucher is now void. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable 
for LV to ask for that evidence. Thats because its for Mr and Mr D to show that 
theyve suffered loss. And the policy terms and conditions provide that Mr and Mr D 
must provide all the evidence LV asks for in order to assess the claim. Mr and Mr D 
didnt provide the additional evidence LV required.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, the settlement of Mr and Mr Ds 
claim wouldnt result in a reimbursement of all that they claim. The excess due under 
the policy is £75 for each insured person, so £150 in relation to this claim. That 
means that almost all of Mr and Mr Ds claim comes within the excesses due under 
the policy. 
Mr and Mr D have referred to an online newspaper article about a claim which they 
say is like their claim. We decide each complaint on its individual facts and merits. In 
Mr and Mr Ds case, I dont think that LV acted unfairly or unreasonably.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mr Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman