DRN-3146302
The complaint
Mr K complains about the settlement Covea Insurance plc has offered him following a claim 
on his home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr K made a claim on his home insurance policy with Covea following a water leak in his 
kitchen diner. Among other things, the laminate flooring in this room was damaged.
Covea accepted the claim. But Mr K and Covea disagree about how the claim for the flooring 
should be settled. 
Mr K says the flooring throughout the ground floor of his home is continuous (apart from a 
cloakroom). And since his original flooring is no longer available, he thinks Covea should pay 
for all the flooring throughout the ground floor (apart from that in the cloakroom) to be 
replaced. 
Covea doesnt agree. It says it will pay for the damaged flooring in the kitchen diner to be 
replaced. But it says its not obliged to pay for the rest of flooring on the ground floor to be 
replaced. Thats because Mr Ks policy says Covea wont pay to replace any undamaged 
item that is part of a matching set or suite where the damage occurs to a specific item of the 
matching set or suite. But as a goodwill gesture Covea says it will pay 50% of the cost of 
new flooring to the rest of the ground floor. 
Mr K complained to Covea about this and its handling of his claim. Covea agreed some 
aspects of its claim handling couldve been better and offered Mr K £50 in compensation for 
this. But it maintained its position on the flooring. 
So Mr K brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld Mr Ks 
complaint. She didnt think Mr K would be able to achieve the same set-up and finish with 
Coveas proposed settlement as hed had before the claim. So she didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable for Covea not to cover the cost of replacing the whole flooring downstairs (minus 
the cloakroom).
Covea disagrees. It maintains Mr K doesnt have cover for matching sets and so its offer to 
pay to replace the kitchen diner flooring and to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the rest of 
the flooring is fair and reasonable.
So Mr Ks complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute between Mr K and Covea that the laminate flooring in Mr Ks kitchen 
diner was damaged by the water leak, nor that Mr Ks home insurance policy covers him for 
this damage. Theres also no dispute Mr Ks original laminate flooring is no longer available. 
So both Mr K and Covea agree its impossible simply to replace the damaged flooring in the 
kitchen diner with the same laminate flooring Mr K has throughout the rest of his ground 
floor.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr K says his laminate flooring is continuous. He says it was 
installed so as to flow through the whole of the ground floor of his home (apart from the 
cloakroom). From the photos Ive seen in Coveas inspection report, I can see that Mr Ks 
flooring does flow in the way he describes. There dont appear to be any door bars. And I 
agree with our investigator that there doesnt seem to be a distinction between the rooms 
with the flooring running throughout.
The insurance policy Mr K has is a contract of indemnity. So Covea needs to put Mr K back 
in the position he wouldve been in had there been no leak and no damage to the flooring. I 
dont think its current settlement offer does that. Because Mr Ks flooring was continuous 
throughout his ground floor before the leak, I dont think it would be right to treat it as a 
matching set. And so, in these rather unusual and specific circumstances, I think its fair and 
reasonable that Covea should pay the entire cost of replacing the laminate flooring 
throughout the ground floor of his home (apart from the cloakroom).
Like our investigator, I think the compensation Covea has offered Mr K for its handling of his 
claim is fair and reasonable.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to 
settle Mr Ks claim either by replacing the laminate flooring throughout the whole of the 
ground floor of Mr Ks home (apart from the cloakroom) with laminate flooring substantially 
similar to the original, or by cash settling Mr Ks claim on this basis.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman