DRN-4413238
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money caused delays when 
she tried to transfer her Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another provider.
What happened
On 15 November 2022, Mrs B opened a fixed rate ISA with another savings provider, who Ill 
call Company A, and asked them to transfer over her funds from her Virgin Money cash ISA. 
Company A wrote to Mrs B on 23 November 2022 explaining that theyd cancelled her ISA 
transfer request as Virgin Money had advised them that the account couldnt be found using 
the details shed provided. They asked her to contact Virgin Money for further information 
and explained shell need to complete a new ISA transfer request form if she wished to 
proceed with the transfer.
Mrs B wrote to Company A explaining that shed checked the details shed provided in her 
application against her Virgin Money bank statement, and these matched. She was unhappy 
that the failed first transfer attempt meant shed lose out financially. She enclosed a paper 
ISA transfer form along with a copy of her Virgin Money bank statement. 
Company A processed Mrs Bs ISA transfer request again. This was successfully completed 
on 14 December 2022. Company A responded to Mrs Bs complaint explaining that Virgin 
Money had rejected her transfer request with the reason provided as no account found. 
They said they wrote to Mrs B to advise her of this, so they were satisfied they processed 
her initial ISA transfer request correctly and in a timely manner. 
But Company A accepted they shouldve attempted to resubmit Mrs Bs ISA transfer request 
again electronically after shed messaged them on 6 December 2022 confirming that the 
account details shed provided initially were correct. They agreed they caused some delays 
in the ISA transfer by waiting to receive Mrs Bs paper ISA transfer form. They explained 
HMRC rules allow them 15 working days to complete an ISA transfer. So, they backdated 
Mrs Bs interest from 7 December 2022, which was 16 working days from the date of her 
initial application.
Mrs B complained to Virgin Money about the delays theyd caused by rejecting her ISA 
transfer. She explained if her initial request had been dealt with correctly, then the transfer 
couldve been completed by 23 November 2022. She said her Virgin Money account was 
only earning 1% per annum, whereas she couldve received 4.38% per annum with 
Company A. She asked them to compensate her for the difference in lost interest between 
the two accounts for 21 days, from 23 November to 14 December 2022, which shed 
calculated at £5 per day.
Virgin Money said they werent responsible for the delays in Mrs Bs ISA transfer. They 
explained that Clydesdale Bank and Yorkshire Bank had become part of the same banking 
group as Virgin Money. Their long-term plan is for a full integration of systems and products 
under Virgin Money. But whilst this was in process, Clydesdale Bank and Yorkshire Bank 
operate on different systems, independently of Virgin Money.
They said that Yorkshire Bank didnt receive the first transfer request. They explained 
Company A shouldve checked The Investing and Savings Alliance (TISA) database to 
successfully transfer funds. And since they sent it incorrectly to Virgin Money, the request 
was rejected.
They explained Company A shouldve sent the transfer request to Virgin Money with a 05 
sort code as they did the second time, and the transfer was completed within one day. They 
believed the details were clearly presented and available for Company A to adhere to, so 
this was a failing on Company As part. 
Unhappy with Virgin Moneys response, Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator said that Virgin Money hadnt made a bank error as the first transfer request 
wasnt sent correctly. He didnt think it was fair or reasonable to ask Virgin Money to 
compensate her for the loss of interest. Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint. 
Mrs B explained that the account details were enough to identify the account, so she 
questioned why Virgin Money staff failed to recognise her account as a valid Virgin Money 
account when their website states  Clydesdale Bank, Yorkshire Bank and Virgin Money 
are one bank. 
She feels Virgin Money rejected the initial transfer because they didnt handle Virgin Money 
accounts with a 05 sort code. But she thought it was quite easy for anyone to verify that 
accounts with a 05 sort code are Virgin Money accounts. She said they shouldve passed on 
the transfer request to the department that could handle the transfer. 
She also said that Virgin Money bank statements dont mention that she should specify 
Virgin Money with 05 sort code when completing an ISA transfer. She feels that Virgin 
Money need to give customers the information they need to arrange a successful ISA 
transfer, particularly when their departments dont communicate with each other.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money, Yorkshire Bank and Clydesdale Bank are all part of the same banking group. 
But as Virgin Money have explained, they all operate independently to each other on their 
own systems while they work on their longer-term plans of merging all the systems. 
This effectively means that for the purposes of an ISA transfer, theyre considered separate 
ISA providers. And the ISA transfer request needs to be sent from the new provider to the 
correct existing provider.
The TISA shows the additional information Virgin Money have recorded to ensure new ISA 
providers send ISA transfers to the correct provider. It also sets out the other options to use 
for Yorkshire Bank accounts with sort codes starting with 05, Virgin Money accounts with 
numerical characters and Clydesdale Bank accounts with sort codes starting 082.  So, in this 
case, the option for sort code starting 05 shouldve been used. Company A has shown that the initial transfer request was sent to Virgin Money and not to 
Virgin Money with sort code 05. This means the request wasnt sent to the correct provider 
where the system under which Yorkshire Bank accounts are managed. This explains why 
Virgin Money couldnt find Mrs Bs account as their systems are separate. I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Virgin Money rejected the ISA transfer request when they couldnt find 
Mrs Bs account details on their system. 
I agree with Mrs B that Virgin Money would, or should reasonably have known, that the 
request was incorrectly sent to them, based on the sort code. But, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect that Virgin Money shouldve passed Mrs Bs ISA transfer request on. 
As per the ISA transfer rules, the ISA transfer request should be made by the new provider 
directly to the existing provider  so, Company A to Virgin Money with sort code starting 05. 
That said, I think it wouldve been helpful if Virgin Money had flagged to Company A that the 
correct provider wasnt selected in their reasons for rejecting the transfer. But I accept Virgin 
Money werent obligated to do so, as the reason they gave for rejecting the transfer wasnt 
incorrect and from their perspective, theyd updated TISA with the information new ISA 
providers require.
I dont think its reasonable to expect Virgin Money to specify how ISA transfers should be 
completed on bank statements as Mrs B has suggested. It isnt the purpose of a bank 
statement, and unlikely to be relevant to all customers. 
Ultimately, I think the delays in the ISA transfer being completed was as a result of the 
transfer request not being sent to the correct provider. And the responsibility for this doesnt 
lay with Virgin Money. Im satisfied that when the transfer request was sent using the correct 
provider details, Virgin Money responded and actioned it in a timely manner  which is what 
Id expect to see.
Since I dont think Virgin Money did anything wrong, I cant fairly ask them to compensate 
Mrs B for the interest she says shes lost.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman