DRN-2242078
The complaint 
Mr N says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr N says he was suffering 
from depression and MYJAR kept giving him loans and in a short space of time. Mr N had to 
reborrow further to pay off other debt. The lending has left Mr N feeling anxious and 
depressed.
What happened 
This complaint is about three short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr N in April 2019. Mr Ns 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 09/04/2019 11/04/2019 3 £275.00 £137.75
2 11/04/2019 16/04/2019 6 £600.00 £179.67
3 16/04/2019 Balance 
outstanding6 £600.00 £174.95
In its response to Mr Ns complaint MYJAR agreed to uphold loan three, pay redress
and remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ns credit file. Mr N rejected the
offer.
As MYJAR had already offered to put loan three right, our adjudicator didnt have to
make a finding on that loan in the assessment of the complaint. The adjudicator went onto
uphold loans one and two as it was clear Mr N was having problems managing his money at
the time of the lending and the loans shouldnt have been given as the lending was 
unsustainable for Mr N.
MYJAR agreed with the adjudicators recommendation. But it said Mr N still owed
£588 for loan three. So, the redress it calculated would be offset against the outstanding 
balance and Mr N would still owe £563.91.
Mr N didnt agree with the offer. He didnt think he should have to repay the outstanding
amount as the loan was unaffordable.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that
Mr N could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr N could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
As MYJAR already offered to uphold loan one, like the adjudicator I dont need to make a 
finding on this. And MYJARs redress calculations were as we would expect them to be.
The adjudicator then went onto uphold the complaint about loans one and two on the basis 
that MYJARs own checks showed that Mr N was struggling with his finances and wouldnt 
be able to sustainably repay the lending. MYJAR agreed with the adjudicator and offered to 
put the matter right. And again, the calculations for the redress were as we would expect 
them to be. So again, I dont need to make any further findings on whether loans one and 
two shouldve been granted.
But, for completeness, I confirm I agree that loans one to three should be upheld.
It seems that Mr N only made a repayment of £12 towards loan three so this means the total
amount of principal outstanding is £588. MYJARs offer totalled £24.09 so that amount would 
be offset against the outstanding principal balance leaving £563.91 still payable. Mr N has 
said he doesnt think he should have to repay this as the lending was unaffordable. I can appreciate why Mr N feels as if he shouldnt repay the principal sum, but that isnt the 
position this service takes. Ive explained below how we look into these types of cases.
When a business has made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we
decide something has gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer
should be put back into the position they would have been in had an error not been made.
However, this is not always possible especially in cases that involve lending money.
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. This is why in such
cases we ask the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, so for
example interest and charges. We also direct any additional interest payment to the
consumer to reflect the loss of use of those funds. This has the effect of providing the
consumer with an interest free loan. By doing this, in our view, a fair outcome is reached.
Ive thought about what Mr N has told us and I do have sympathy for his position. I can
understand why he wants the outstanding balance written off, and his liability for the lending
to be ended. Hes also told us two other short-term lenders have written off the debt he owed 
them. But, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, Im not in the position to ask
MYJAR to do that. I know Mr N will be disappointed with my decision, but Ill explain why Ive 
reached it.
Mr N has had use of the funds and I dont think it would be fair in this case, to ask MYJAR to 
write off this balance. Mr N, as Ive said, has used these funds and I think MYJAR is entitled 
to recover what was lent  which is what it is proposing to do.
I accept that Mr N hasnt repaid the outstanding balance due on loan three, but I cant say in 
this case, that should mean MYJAR should write the balance off. But what MYJAR should do 
is treat Mr N fairly when dealing with him and consider all reasonable courses of action while 
trying to recover the outstanding balance.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr N, but I want to assure him
that Ive listened to his concerns, but on this occasion, I think the offer made by MYJAR to 
resolve the complaint is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right 
In deciding what redress MYJAR should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr N from loan one, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr N may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr N in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr N would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MYJARs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
For clarification purposes, what MYJAR needs to do.
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ns loan three has been transferred to a third party, 
MYJAR should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant buy the loan back, then it needs to 
work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr N towards interest, fees and
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr N which were
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr N originally made the payments, to the
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr N as though they had been repayments of the
principal on the outstanding loan.
If this results in Mr N having made overpayments, then MYJAR should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus,
then the surplus should be paid to Mr N. However, if there is still an outstanding balance
then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr N.
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ns credit file in relation to one to three.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr N still has an outstanding balance due, then MYJAR should try 
and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr N in order to 
repay what is owed. As Ive said above, Id remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat Mr N 
fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. MYJAR Limited should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 Catherine Langley
Ombudsman