DRN-3484543
The complaint
Mr W1, acting on behalf of the estate of Mr W, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt 
make the agreed payment from the late Mr Ws account to cover the cost of his funeral. 
What happened
Mr W1 says that a meeting was held with Barclays and it was understood that Mr W had 
enough money in his accounts to cover the cost of his funeral and that this payment would 
be made from the account in the event of Mr Ws death. Mr W died in January 2020 and the 
funeral costs were £4,960. Mr W1 says that Barclays didnt pay the amount due to the 
funeral directors - instead paying only £1,645 - and paid an amount of over £1,000 to a credit 
card that he says his late father didnt have.
Barclays was unable to confirm the meeting that took place when Mr Ws funeral costs were 
discussed and so couldnt confirm how much money was in his accounts at that time. It said 
that the late Mr W had two accounts with a combined total balance of £4,552. Barclays said 
that it received notification of the funeral costs being £4,960 however it only paid the funeral 
directors £1,645 which it subsequently understood was the deposit amount paid by the 
estate. It then used £1,189.05 to clear Mr Ws credit card debt and the surplus was paid to 
Mr W1. It acknowledged that covering the funeral costs should have been a priority and 
apologised for the upset not doing this had caused. It noted the funds available wouldnt 
have covered the whole cost of the funeral but said the full amount in the accounts should 
have been used to pay the funeral directors. Because of this it offered to pay £1,189.05 as 
this shouldnt have been used to pay the credit card and instead should have been used to 
pay the funeral directors. It noted the amount that Mr W1 had received could also be used 
for this purpose. It also offered to pay Mr W1 £200 compensation for the upset it had 
caused.
Our investigator thought that the offer made by was reasonable.
Mr W1 didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the issues Mr W1 has been experienced in regard to his fathers estate. 
This will have been particularly upsetting given he was also dealing with the loss of his father 
at this time. In this case, Barclays has confirmed that the total amount of money in Mr Ws 
accounts at the time of his passing was £4,552.18. I note the comments Mr W1 has made 
about a meeting taking place and the understanding being that Mr W had sufficient funds to 
cover his funeral costs, however as the funeral costs were £4,960 this was higher than the 
amount in Mr Ws accounts. Therefore, I cannot say that Barclays is required to cover the 
total funeral costs.
The funds from Mr Ws account were distributed to three parties: the funeral directors, a 
Barclays credit card, and Mr W1. I note Barclays terms and conditions state that debts will 
be offset (including credit cards) before money is released to the estate. However, it has 
been accepted that in this case the money should have been paid to the funeral directors 
before it was paid to the credit card or Mr W1. Had this happened the amount wouldnt have 
been enough to pay the full cost of the funeral, but it would have paid the majority of it and 
there wouldnt have been funds left for the other payments.
In considering the action that Barclays should take given the issue that has arisen, I think 
that Barclays offer to pay the funeral directors the amount that was paid to the credit card is 
reasonable. As the other amount was distributed to Mr W1, Mr W1 would have been able to 
use this money to pay the funeral costs and so I do not find that Barclays is required to do 
anything in regard to this amount. 
I know this isnt the outcome that Mr W wants but, in this case, I think the offer made by 
Barclays to pay the £1,189.05 to the funeral directors is reasonable.
I am sorry that Mr W has had to deal with this issue and understand how upsetting this must 
have been. I note that Barclays offered to pay a total of £200 compensation. However, as 
the complainant in this case is the estate of Mr W, I cannot recommend that compensation is 
paid for the distress and inconvenience Mr W1 had been caused through this process. 
Therefore, I recommend he discusses this part of the offer directly with Barclays.
Putting things right
Barclays should, as it has offered, pay the amount of £1,189.05 (that was used to pay 
Mr Ws credit card) to the funeral directors. Mr W1 can discuss directly with Barclays the 
offer made in regard to compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Barclays Bank UK PLC is reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman