DRN-3683847
The complaint
Mr P complains Match the Cash Limited trading as Guarantomyloan.tv (Match the Cash) 
irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Mr P was approved for a guarantor loan with Match the Cash in June 2019. The capital 
amount of the loan was £5,000. The term of the loan was 60 months, with repayments of 
approximately £200 per month. The loan was to be used for Mr P to purchase a car.
Mr P says the loan was irresponsibly brought about by Match the Cash. He says at the time 
he applied for the loan he was struggling financially, and Match the Cash shouldve 
completed further enquiries before bringing about the loan. Mr P says had it done this    
Match the Cash wouldve seen he could not afford the loan. 
Match the Cash disagreed with Mr Ps complaint. It says it completed the necessary level of 
enquiries before arranging the loan. Match the Cash says it searched Mr Ps credit file; and 
completed an income and expenditure assessment which it verified via searching Mr Ps 
finances. It says it arranged the loan responsibly for Mr P.
Our investigator recommended the loan be upheld. She felt that whilst Match the Cash had 
completed proportionate enquiries, that the information it possessed demonstrated that Mr P 
could not sustainably afford to repay the loan. Match the Cash disagreed with this outcome, 
and maintained the loan was brought about responsibly. Mr P has confirmed the loan is still 
active, but maintains he is in financial hardship.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Mr P and Match the Cash are aware of our services approach to irresponsible and 
unaffordable lending complaints; so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail 
here. But for clarity, Ive considered if and Match the Cash completed reasonable and 
proportionate enquiries; and if it made a fair decision to bring about this loan for Mr P. Ive 
also considered if and Match the Cash acted unfairly in any other way.
Having reviewed the information provided Im also satisfied that Match the Cash did 
complete reasonable and proportionate enquiries in this instance. I can see that             
Match the Cash completed an affordability assessment, and searched Mr Ps credit file. It 
verified the information which Mr P provided in the affordability assessment by searching   
Mr Ps bank account and producing a financial standings report. 
These enquiries gave and Match the Cash a sufficient insight into Mr Ps credit 
commitments, his repayment history, his income and his non-credit expenditure. And whilst it 
showed that Mr P had had issues managing his credit in the past, this was discussed with  
Mr P during his affordability assessment. As such, Im satisfied that and Match the Cash had 
a sufficient insight into Mr Ps finances, and it did not need to obtain further information from 
him prior to bringing about this loan.
However, with that being said, Match the Cash still needed to ensure it considered the 
information it gathered, and make a fair decision to bring about the loan for Mr P. As     
Match the Cash is aware it isnt sufficient for it to just complete proportionate checks  it 
must also consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending 
decision. This includes not bring about a loan for someone already in financial hardship; and 
ensuring repayments can be made sustainably without having to borrow further. And having 
reviewed the information that it had the time Im not persuaded it made a fair decision when 
bringing about this loan.
Having reviewed the information which was gathered, Im satisfied there was sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that Mr P would struggle to maintain the necessary repayments 
sustainably. 
The information which Match the Cash gathered demonstrated that Mr P had an income of 
around £1,150 per month. His main non-credit commitment outgoing was his rent which was 
verified at being around £300 per month. Mr P also declared that he had one child (although 
he did not live with them). The credit file search demonstrated that Mr P had a total existing 
credit of £2,500, of which £1,500 was on defaulted amounts. The credit file search 
demonstrated that Mr P had issues in the past managing his credit (leading to the defaulted 
balances above). The credit file search also demonstrated that Mr P had a revolving credit 
limit of £250 and that at the time of the application he had exceeded this with a total balance 
showing as effectively £400. This suggests that Mr Ps outgoings were higher than those 
declared; and that he was struggling to manage his existing commitments.
In addition to this, Match the Cashs affordability calculator, including the repayment for this 
loan, demonstrated that Mr P would have approximately £200 disposable income. However, 
the information it produced in the financial standings report suggests this may not have been 
accurate. The report demonstrates that Mr Ps current balances had available credit of 
around £4 at the time of the application. It also demonstrates that whilst some items were 
accurately covered, such as Mr Ps rent, other items were higher, leading to more outgoings 
than had been used within the affordability report. When looking at the report and taking into 
consideration the total income versus the total outgoings, it suggested that Mr Ps outgoings 
were higher than his income. Adding further weight to the fact Mr P finances were not in a 
position to take on further lending.
Mr P has explained he was struggling financially at the time, and that the loan was not going 
to consolidate any debts, but instead used to purchase a car. This means the loan was 
further increasing Mr Ps indebtedness, which although relatively low, was already 
demonstrating signs of not being sustainable for Mr P to manage.
So based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied there was sufficient information which 
suggested Mr P would more likely than have been unable to meet the repayments 
sustainably. As such, Match the Cashs decision to bring about the loan was unreasonable. 
Match the Cash has said that Mr P has made all of his payments which demonstrates the 
loan is likely affordable. Whilst that may be true, Im not persuaded making repayments is 
the same as being able to afford the repayments sustainably. On the contrary, Mr P has provided evidence to our service which demonstrates he is struggling to meet a number of 
existing priority bills. 
 
Putting things right
Mr P has lost out by the actions of Match the Cash, as he has had to pay additional interest 
and charges. Mr P has confirmed the loan is still active, and that he has made the 
repayments not his guarantor. 
In order to put things right I require Match the Cash Limited trading as Guarantomyloan.tv to:
To add up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mr P made should be deducted from this amount. 
a) If this results in Mr P having paid more than they received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Match the Cash should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr P.
Match the Cash should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit 
file in relation to loan but that only needs to be done once the loan has been repaid. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest.     
Match the Cash must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask 
for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman