DRN-4399739
The complaint
Mr D complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn irresponsibly gave him 
a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr D acquired a used car by taking out a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The cash price of the car was £5,880. Mr D paid a deposit of £261 and was 
required to pay a further 59 monthly repayments of £176.35. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £10,665.65.
In November 2022, Mr D raised a complaint to Moneybarn to say that the agreement was 
unaffordable. He said that Moneybarn didnt complete appropriate checks before lending and 
had it done, it would have seen he was struggling financially. Mr D began to miss payments 
soon after making his complaint.
Moneybarn didnt think it had acted unfairly in providing credit to Mr D. It said that it carried 
out appropriate checks which didnt show any affordability concerns.
I sent Mr D and Moneybarn my provisional decision on 27 September 2023. I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
The adjudicator concluded that Moneybarn didnt complete reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before lending to Mr D. Moneybarn hasnt disputed 
this, but for clarity, I agree. It appears that prior to the application, Mr D had some 
relatively recent repayment difficulty on other credit and another car finance credit 
agreement. All of this ought to have prompted Moneybarn to have applied more 
detailed scrutiny to Mr Ds financial circumstances before lending.
Mr D had declared a monthly income of £1,760 and Moneybarn had used credit 
reference agency data to estimate whether this was likely to be accurate. It also used 
statistical data to estimate Mr Ds likely committed expenditure. However, given what 
was apparent on Mr Ds credit file, I think that proportionate affordability checks ought 
to have included a more detailed verification of Mr Ds income as well as finding out 
what his committed expenditure actually was (rather than relying on a statistical 
estimate).
I cant be sure exactly what Moneybarn would have seen if it had done further 
checks, but Ive reviewed copies of Mr Ds bank statements and asked additional 
questions about various income and expenditure entries on those statements. In the 
absence of anything Moneybarn might have done, I think I can place significant 
weight on what Mr D has told us and what his bank statements show about his 
financial circumstances at the time.
Mr Ds income comprised a salary from his employment, benefits and regular cash 
deposits through the post office. Ive asked Mr D about the source of these cash 
deposits, but his responses have been unclear. However, Im satisfied based on what 
Ive seen and what Mr D has said, that these were also a regular source of income. 
Im mindful that Mr D wanted to acquire the car, so I find it likely he would have 
described these as part of his income if asked by (especially as he appears to have 
described these as such to us now).
Large amounts of Mr Ds expenditure appear to have been carried out on a fuel 
card. Mr D says he put most of his food and other household expenditure on that 
card. However, from reviewing Mr Ds bank statements it appears that a large 
proportion of the spending on the fuel card was paid for by the cash deposits made 
into his account at the post office. These cash deposits werent taken into 
consideration by the adjudicator when they assessed Mr Ds disposable income. As 
these cash deposits were regular and appeared to cover specific expenses, I think 
its reasonable for me to take those into account when considering whether 
Moneybarn made a fair lending decision.
Taking all of this into account, it appears the conditional sale agreement was 
affordable to Mr D or at least would have appeared to be affordable following any 
reasonable and proportionate scrutiny of his financial circumstances. Ive not seen 
anything to make me think that more detailed and thorough affordability checks ought 
to have led to a different lending decision. I therefore dont think Moneybarn made an 
unfair lending decision.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence to my provisional decision. 
However, neither party responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence provide, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. While I dont 
think Moneybarns affordability checks went far enough, Ive not seen anything to persuade 
me that had it carried out proportionate checks that it would likely have discovered any 
affordability concerns. I therefore dont think it made an unfair lending decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman