DRN-1440764
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard), 
applied her work email address to her credit card account without her authority.
What happened
Mrs H opened a credit card account in 2001 with Barclaycard. She says she didnt, at any 
time, register her work email address with her account as this was against her works policy. 
However, after a change to the email system used at Mrs Hs workplace, the filter that had 
been applied on emails was altered and Mrs H became aware that a number of emails from 
Barclaycard had been sent using that address. She says this caused her upset and 
embarrassment as it was a breach of office procedure.
In February 2019, Mrs H wrote to Barclaycard requesting that her account be closed. In that 
letter she included that she hadnt given it permission to use her work email address to send 
communications about her personal account.
Barclaycard closed the account as requested, but it also treated Mrs Hs letter as a 
complaint. It says that Mrs H had used the term this is not acceptable when referring to the 
use of her work email address, so it treated her letter as a letter of complaint as this was an 
expression of dissatisfaction. Barclaycard says this was in line with Financial Conduct 
Authoritys guidelines on handling complaints. It sent her a final response letter in which it 
did not uphold her complaint as the work email address had been added to her account in 
August 2013. Barclaycard confirmed that her account had been closed but did advise that 
she may receive further marketing materials for the next eight weeks as these were 
produced in advance.
In May 2019, Mrs H replied to Barclaycard that her original letter closing her account had not 
been a complaint but, due to its response on her comment, she now wished to complain. As 
Barclaycard considered it had dealt with Mrs Hs complaint it did not reply. Mrs H wrote a 
further letter to Barclaycard raising its lack of response. 
Mrs H complained to this service. She said she thought her work email had been added to 
her account by Barclaycard after she had used it back in 2012 to deal with a complaint on a 
separate account. Mrs H said she had not given her work email address to any bank or 
financial institution. She was also unhappy at the number of emails she had received on her 
work address after she had closed her account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Barclaycard had acquired Mrs Hs work email address from a third-party data provider 
company, and this was in line with the credit cards terms and conditions and privacy policy. 
The investigator said she didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly and had also warned 
her that marketing material might still be received for a period of time after the account had 
been closed. 
Mrs H was unhappy at the view of our investigator. She asked to see Barclaycards 
response to her complaint to this service, and proof that a third-party data company had 
provided the address, together with a copy of the applicable privacy policy. Mrs H said she 
had been entitled to a response from Barclaycard to her complaint letter sent in May 2019 
and was unhappy about the customer service she had received.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs H is unhappy at the lack of response she received from Barclaycard to her 
letter in May 2019, and to the follow up letter she sent in July 2019, but it isnt in my remit to 
look at the way a business handles a complaint as this isnt a regulated activity. My role is to 
look at whether Barclaycard acted fairly in applying Mrs Hs work email address to her credit 
card account.
However, I dont think Barclaycard acted unreasonably when it treated Mrs Hs letter, 
requesting closure of her account, as a letter of complaint. She was clearly unhappy about 
the use of her work email address for correspondence about her credit card account and 
was criticising Barclaycards actions in this regard.
Ive seen that Mrs H is also unhappy that the final response letter from Barclaycard didnt set 
out that her work email address had been provided by a third-party company. She thought it 
inferred she had forgotten she had provided the address. While I can understand her 
frustration about that, this again would fall under the handling of her complaint by 
Barclaycard and, as such, is not something I can consider.
Looking at the evidence that has been provided I can see that Mrs Hs work email address 
was provided by a third-party data provider company. This would mean that at some point 
Mrs H had used this particular email address and given permission for it to be shared. 
Although I appreciate Mrs Hs concerns that the work email address was used without her 
permission, after she had provided it for an entirely separate purpose, Im satisfied that this 
was not the case.
Ive seen that it was set out in the privacy policy, in place in 2013, that information is 
collected and used from other sources. So, I cant reasonably say that Barclaycard wasnt 
entitled to obtain Mrs Hs work email address and register it on her account. I have also seen 
a template letter, that would have been sent to Mrs H via her work email, allowing her to opt 
out of that address being used. I think its more likely than not that, due to the filter that was 
applied to incoming emails at Mrs Hs work place, she didnt receive that letter. I understand 
from the evidence that it was only in 2019 Mrs H became aware her work email address had 
been registered on her account since 2013.
Mrs H is unhappy that Barclaycard didnt seek prior authority from her before applying the 
work email address to her credit card account. But I think Barclaycard were entitled to obtain 
this information and I think its likely that they did ask Mrs H if she didnt want this address 
used in the opt out letter. Barclaycard wouldnt have been aware the emails werent coming 
to Mrs Hs attention and I wouldnt expect it to both email and write to her home address 
about this.
Mrs H has also raised that, after she had closed her account, Barclaycard proceeded to 
send a flurry of emails to her. These were marketing emails and Ive seen that, in its final 
response letter to Mrs H, it did warn that such emails could still be sent for up to eight weeks 
as they had already been produced. I dont have any evidence that Mrs H received more 
emails than would have otherwise been due to be sent out, so I cant say the number of 
emails she has received were unreasonable.So, for the reasons given, I think Barclaycard has acted fairly in applying Mrs Hs work email 
address to her credit card account and Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 01 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman