DRN-4317162
The complaint
Mr G complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) have held him liable for a loan that he didnt apply for. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In January 2023 a loan was issued by 
Novuna in Mr Gs name. The loan agreement is dated 24 January 2023, it was for £20,000 
with monthly payments of around £620 over a 36-month term. I understand the loan was 
paid into a bank account in Mr Gs name. 
There was then a further loan application made in Mr Gs name. Novuna referred this 
second application for additional checks. On 3 February 2023 an email was sent from Mr Gs 
email address chasing where the funds from this second loan were. There was also 
conversation between Mr G and Novuna the same day in which he again asked when the 
funds from the second loan would be paid into his account. During that call, reference was 
made to this being his second application. I understand the second loan wasnt ever paid to 
Mr G.
On 7 February 2023 Mr G contacted Novuna and told them he thought hed been the victim 
of a scam. He described how he believed hed been investing in cryptocurrency. He says 
hed shared access to his phone with the scammer and that he hadnt done the loan 
applications himself. He says the scammer took control of everything and told him that they 
worked closely with Novuna and the funds hed received were company money which he 
had to send on. On the directions of the scammer, hed opened a further bank account and 
accounts with a cryptocurrency exchange. 
Novuna investigated but ultimately held Mr G liable for the loan agreement. But they did say 
that in the circumstances, they wouldnt apply interest or charges to the loan. The matter 
was considered by our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend that Novuna 
needed to do more. In summary whilst she acknowledged Mr G had been scammed, she 
wasnt persuaded that he hadnt agreed to the loan. Mr G has asked for an Ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr G, so Ill explain why. 
Mr G says that he didnt take out the loan with Novuna. Novuna say that the loan application 
used Mr Gs genuine email address and phone number. They also shared their process 
which is that a code is sent to the phone number to confirm the loan. 
I agree with our Investigator that if a scammer were trying to conceal a loan from Mr G, they 
most likely wouldnt have used his true contact details as he may then have seen and 
questioned any documentation received. This isnt conclusive in itself as Mr G has said that 
the scammer had access to and control of his device. He also states that he rarely checked 
his emails.
However, I find the call Mr G had with Novuna on 3 February 2023 to be persuasive 
evidence. The following exchange took place on that call.
Novuna: Is it just the one application that youve applied for recently?
Mr G: No, this is the second, Im getting home improvements done on my house
Novuna: So that was the first one as it, the one that went live on the 24th?
Mr G: Yes.
If Mr G hadnt applied for the loan as he alleged in his complaint, then its difficult to 
understand why he told Novuna he had applied for the loan dated 24th January during his 
call with them. I appreciate Mr G says he was acting under the instructions of the scammer, 
and that he believed Novuna worked in partnership with the cryptocurrency firm he thought 
he was dealing with. But if that were the case, its again difficult to understand why he would 
have needed to have lied (to say the loan was for home improvements) if it were a genuine 
business relationship. 
Ive placed more weight on this evidence than on Mr Gs testimony. I think its most likely that 
even if the scammer physically keyed the loan application, Mr G had involvement such that 
Novunas decision to not treat this as a case of ID theft was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G has more recently raised that he doesnt think the loan should have been granted as it 
wasnt affordable for him. But this didnt form part of his complaint to Novuna and they 
havent yet had an opportunity to investigate and respond. So it isnt something I can 
comment on here. This complaint is about Novunas decision not to treat the loan application 
as fraudulent and to hold Mr G to its terms. I note that Novuna have agreed to remove 
interest and charges, and if Mr G feels the lending was irresponsible this is something he 
should take up with Novuna in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman