DRN-1656765
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Ms T says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Ms T opened a store card account in a shop in 2003. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Ms Ts store card 
each month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
It also included some purchase and price protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. This was, in brief, because she 
didnt think AXA had made the policys cost and benefits clear enough to Ms T. And she 
didnt think she needed the policy enough to make its benefits worth what it cost her.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy cost £1.50 for every £100 of the monthly balance on the store card 
account. If Ms T had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, the policy would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she 
owed on her store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit 
agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance had been 
repaid- whichever was the earliest.
 
I acknowledge that the benefit of the policy was relatively high. But so was the cost. 
And Im not satisfied that AXA made it clear to Ms T that the premiums would be added to the account, and would attract interest. Nor am I satisfied that it was made 
clear to Ms T that premiums would continue to be charged during the period of a 
successful claim, so reducing the benefit.
 
Ms T was employed in the public sector when she opened the store card account. 
Shes told us shed have been entitled to 12 weeks full pay, followed by 6 weeks half 
pay from her employer if shed been off sick. Ms T has also consistently told us that 
she had savings equivalent to three months of her earnings. And she's 
confirmed that they werent earmarked for anything in particular.
 
Bearing in mind the alternative means she already had of making her monthly store 
card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job, Im not convinced that Ms T 
would have thought the PPI was good value if shed fully understood the cost and 
benefits. So I think its unlikely shed have taken the PPI out. This means I think she 
lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
 
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms T in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.  AXA should find out how much Ms T would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms T owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.  AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Ms 
T would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund.
C.  If  when AXA works out what Ms T would have owed each month without PPI  
Ms T paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra Ms T paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point when Ms T would have owed AXA something on her store card.
D.  AXA should tell Ms T what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms T that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
T a certificate showing how much tax AXA have taken off if she asks for one.  
 My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman