DRN-2014136
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr G was given 5 loans by Mr Lender between April 2017 and July 2018. The loans were 
payable in instalments varying from 3 to 12 months.  The amount borrowed varied from £200 
to £1250. Mr Lender has told us that Mr G was unable to repay loan 5 so the debt was 
eventually sold to a third party. 
A summary of Mr G's borrowing is as follows:
Loans Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 21/04/2017 16/05/2017 3 £200.00
2 08/06/2017 25/09/2017 6 £400.00
3 17/10/2017 15/11/2017 6 £200.00
4 05/12/2017 17/03/2018 12 £1,000.00
5 07/07/2018 Outstanding 12 £1,250.00
When Mr G complained to Mr Lender it didnt agree to uphold his complaint but it offered to 
recall his account and discount the outstanding balance on loan 5 as a goodwill gesture, so 
that he effectively would repay just the capital sum borrowed. Mr G didnt accept this offer 
and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs complaint. She didn't think shed seen enough 
information to say that Mr Lender had been wrong to give the first three loans to Mr G. But 
she thought it should not have agreed to provide loans 4 or 5 and she asked Mr Lender to 
pay Mr G some compensation.  Mr Lender didn't agree with the adjudicators assessment, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable way. Mr Lender's checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish 
whether continued lending was sustainable for Mr G.
Such factors include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might of course be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr G.
Each of Mr Gs loans were repayable over a period of between 3 and 12 months. So the 
amounts that he needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But he had to make those repayments over a longer period  especially for the 
fourth and fifth loans. So Ive needed to consider the total amount that Mr G needed to repay 
to Mr Lender every month.
Mr Lender says it carried out some checks before it gave each loan to Mr G. These checks 
included asking Mr G for details of his income and expenditure. Mr Lender also carried out 
some credit checks. Mr G says he was a full-time student with only part-time income when he took the loans, but this is disputed by Mr Lender. I cant see, from the information 
provided, what Mr G told the lender about the source of his monthly income when he applied 
for his loans or whether this question was raised at the time. 
But Ive seen a summary of the information that Mr Lender gathered in its checks and I dont 
think they showed anything that should have caused additional concerns for Mr Lender in 
the initial stages of the lending relationship.  
I think that the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing the first three loans were reasonable 
and proportionate. Mr G says the loans werent affordable for him and he says he had 
numerous loans with other short-term lenders at the time. But I think it was reasonable for Mr 
Lender to make its early lending decisions based on the information Mr G had provided and 
what it found through proportionate checks. 
Given what Mr G had told the lender about his circumstances, and the amounts he needed 
to repay in relation to the disposable income hed declared, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate, (in the early stages of the lending relationship), for it to ask Mr G for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first three loans. I dont think greater checks were appropriate at the time. And I 
dont think Mr Gs lending had reached the point where I think Mr Lender ought to have been 
independently verifying the information he was providing about his finances by, for example, 
asking to see copies of his bank statements. So Mr Lender would not have been aware if Mr 
G might have difficulty repaying his loans in a sustainable manner.  
So I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint about the first three loans.
However I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to loans 4 or 5. 
The lender has told us that for loan 4, it asked Mr G some further questions, to check the 
affordability of the loan. And that it did this again before agreeing to the fifth loan.
But I dont think, in the circumstances of this case, that this went far enough to establish 
whether Mr G would be able to sustainably repay the lending. Loan 4 was for a significantly 
increased amount, with repayments required over an extended period of 12 months. This 
was Mr Gs fourth loan in nine months and each previous loan had been taken out a fairly 
short time after repaying the previous lending. Hed also repaid his previous loans 
substantially early before borrowing again, which could reasonably have indicated to Mr 
Lender that he might be in financial difficulties and needing to borrow to repay other lending. 
I appreciate that Mr Lender asked Mr G some further questions at the time. And Ive looked 
carefully at the extract of a conversation that the lender says it had with Mr G.  But I dont 
think Mr Lender could reasonably have relied on this particular conversation as being a 
proportionate check in the circumstances. Taking everything into account, I think Mr Lender 
ought reasonably to have been alerted that Mr G might be having difficulty managing his 
finances and that it couldnt reasonably rely on the information he was providing. At that 
point I think it should have taken steps to independently verify Mr Gs financial 
circumstances  for example by requesting bank statements - to reasonably establish for 
itself whether continued lending was appropriate for this consumer at the time. 
From what Ive seen, Mr G had been repeatedly taking short-term loans from a number of 
other lenders. On balance, I think better checks would have shown Mr Lender that Mr G was 
having financial difficulties and that he was most likely borrowing to repay other lending  
and would also most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loans from Mr Lender. I 
think the lender ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr G wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay loan 4  or any subsequent lending. So I dont think Mr Lender was right to provide loans 4 or 5 to Mr G. 
Mr Lender has not upheld Mr Gs complaint about loan 5 but it has offered what it calls a 
goodwill gesture to remove the interest associated with the loan. My decision is to uphold 
loans 4 and 5 so Mr Lender must now pay Mr G the appropriate compensation.
In summary:
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint about loans 1 to 3. 
But I dont think that Mr Lender should have agreed to provide loans 4 or 5. So Mr 
Lender needs to pay Mr G some compensation.
Putting things right
Mr Lender has told us it sold the outstanding debt payable in respect of loan 5. So it should 
buy it back from the third party, if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mr 
Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below.
Mr Lender should:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, without an outstanding balance, not including anything that has 
already been refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G for loan 4, 
calculated from the date the payments were originally made, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan 5, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan. If this results in Mr G having made overpayments then Mr 
Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with him - bearing in mind the need to treat Mr G positively and sympathetically 
in those discussions.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Gs 
credit file. As Mr Lender has sold the outstanding loan 5 it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same. Mr Lender does not have to remove the outstanding loan 
from Mr Gs credit file until it has been repaid, but it should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about this loan.*HMRC requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest and provide Mr G with a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he requests one. If Mr Lender intends to 
use the refund to reduce the amount Mr G owes, it must do this after tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman