DRN-2886055
The complaint
Mr H complains about the extension charge he was asked to pay by Lex Autolease Ltd 
(Lex) when his hire agreement ended.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that during the telephone call Mr H had with Lex the agent didnt mention 
whether the contract extension quote he was offering included VAT. Mr H says he entered 
into a verbal agreement at that time, but I dont agree. The business subsequently sent the 
agreement to Mr H to sign and it would have been clear at that point that VAT had not been 
included and needed to be paid.
I can see that B made a payment to Mr H of £50 because they agreed their agent could have 
been clearer. I think that offer was reasonable.
Lex didnt have to offer the contract extension at the same cost as the earlier agreement as 
that earlier agreement had ended. And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
them to honour the quote of £250 as I dont think VAT was discussed during that 
conversation and the actual cost was confirmed in the contract extension documentation 
Mr H was subsequently sent.
Mr H is upset that Lex have reported missed payments to the credit reference agencies. He 
told Lex he wouldnt pay their charges in September 2020 and they explained to him on 8 
October 2020 that if he didnt pay it may impact his credit file. I can see that Mr H reasserted 
his position in November 2020 and confirmed to Lex that hed only be paying £250 per 
month in December 2020. I understand Mr H eventually settled the outstanding debt and 
agreed a new formal payment in 2021 after hed referred his complaint to this service.
Lex have an obligation to report accurate information about a consumers account 
performance and it seems thats what they have done here and that they informed Mr H that 
missed payments would have an impact on his credit file. Whilst many companies will be 
prepared to hold activities whilst we investigate a complaint we cant insist they do so. And, 
anyway, Mr H stopped making payments several months before his complaint was referred 
to us and Id expect Lex to report those missed payments. As we havent upheld Mr Hs 
complaint, and he had been made aware of the impact missed payments could have on his 
credit file, I dont think it would be fair to suggest Lex have done anything wrong when 
reporting missed payments to his credit file.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Lex have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman