DRN-4509868
The complaint
Mr P complains that Rathbone Investment Management Limited (Rathbones) persuaded 
him to transfer to its discretionary service, after which poor and reckless investment 
decisions were made which led to him losing money.
What happened
Our investigator has already set out in detail what happened, and I wont repeat all of that 
again here. In brief summary, Mr P had been a long-time client of a broker, firstly under an 
execution only arrangement, then under a non-discretionary arrangement. In 2018 
Rathbones took over that brokers business and Mr P agreed to move to a non-discretionary 
arrangement with Rathbones. His advisor remained the same individual.
In November 2020 he signed a discretionary agreement with Rathbones. And shortly 
afterwards Rathbones carried out a series of transactions on his account. In August 2021 
Mr P complained that those transactions had led him to lose money and that he would have 
been better off if hed remained with a non-discretionary agreement. He said he had been 
wrongly categorised as having a very high attitude to risk and that it made no sense for the 
portfolio to have a long-term time horizon, because of his advancing years.
Rathbones said all transactions which took place under the discretionary agreement were in 
line with its central research guidance and aimed to provide strong returns over the medium 
to longer term. It said the investments needed to be rebalanced to achieve a well-diversified 
portfolio in line with Mr Ps agreed objectives and risk profile. Whilst it didnt uphold his 
complaint, it said it appreciated Mr Ps time and trouble and offered to pay him £200.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Rathbones had done anything wrong when it came to the operation of the discretionary 
investment portfolio.
Mr P didnt agree. He replied in detail to say, in summary, that:
Its wrong to say the discussions about moving to a discretionary portfolio started in 
January 2019. When his portfolio was transferred to Rathbones, he chose a non-
discretionary arrangement and, as far as he was concerned, this ended the discussion. 
But Rathbones continued to try to persuade him to move to a discretionary arrangement, 
despite his refusal. He finally agreed in late 2020 when he panicked at the 
disappearance of his dividend income.
Rathbones categorised him as having a very high or level 6 risk profile. This doesnt 
fit his attitude to risk, and he wouldnt have agreed with it. He didnt receive the letter 
dated 6 August 2019 which the investigator says set out his objectives and attitude to 
risk. He would have rejected this if hed seen it. 
Rathbones said that very high risk was appropriate because he was invested in 100% 
equities. But this doesnt differentiate those who invest in safe blue chip companies and 
those who engage in speculative short-term trading.
The five-to-ten-year time horizon for investment was never discussed and, for someone 
of his age, is absurd.
No attention was given to the timing of the trades which took place on 18 November 
2020. All the shares sold subsequently rose in price and all the purchases fell.
The regional manager of Rathbones refused to answer his questions about the trades, 
but passed him to the complaints team, who passed him to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, I think its important to clarify this services role. Mr P says that we should be 
protecting the individual investor from mismanagement of their savings, whereas he feels the 
investigator has protected the business. But our role is an impartial one. We investigate the 
individual circumstances of complaints and decide whether the business has done anything 
wrong and, if it has, what it should fairly and reasonably do to put things right.
Having carefully considered everything here, I find I have come to the same conclusion as 
the investigator for much the same reasons. As the investigator set out her reasons in some 
detail, rather than repeat those, I will concentrate on the key comments Mr P raised in 
response to her conclusions. For ease of reading, Ive used sub-headings.
The discretionary agreement
Mr P clearly regrets signing a discretionary management agreement. But I dont find 
Rathbones acted inappropriately here. Let me explain why.
Mr P had had a non-discretionary arrangement for many years, and hed been happy with 
that. The move from his old broker to Rathbones was an opportunity to review his current 
arrangement and to consider other options. I can see this was discussed in or around 
January 2019, but that Mr P chose to stay with a non-discretionary arrangement.
I dont think it was inappropriate for Rathbones to continue the discussion about the 
suitability of a discretionary arrangement over the coming months. I say this because Mr P 
was travelling extensively and, during a phone call and meeting in the summer of 2019, he 
told Rathbones he probably no longer had the time or inclination to manage the portfolio 
himself. He signed a discretionary agreement in November 2020. He says this was 
prompted by the post-Covid drop in his investment income and he panicked. But I think 
hed already been considering it because of his previous comments about lacking the time 
and inclination to keep an eye on his investments himself. I cant see evidence that he was 
pressured by Rathbones to sign a discretionary agreement. I accept Rathbones advisor 
highlighted his discretionary management performance history, but I dont find this was 
inappropriate  I would have expected this to be covered as part of the discussion about the 
potential benefits of the discretionary service.The risk classification
Mr Ps previous broker assessed him as having a very high, or level 6, attitude to risk. 
When his portfolio transferred to Rathbones, Rathbones explained it had mapped his risk 
profile across to its own risk levels. It categorised Mr P as having risk level 6 which it 
described as:
This risk level is applicable to a portfolio where the investor has a high-risk tolerance. It 
aims to generate a return over time well in excess of inflation. We expect the value of the 
investments to fluctuate significantly which could more than reflect the volatility of equity 
markets. The portfolio will include a high exposure to shares. Whilst there may be some 
modest exposure to asset classes that are considered to have lower risk characteristics, the 
focus will certainly be on equities and is therefore suitable for investors with a longer time 
horizon and the capacity to withstand capital loss.
This was set out in a letter to Mr P dated 23 July 2019. On 1 August 2019, Mr P completed a 
Client information Update and confirmed that his preferred risk classification for the 
portfolio was very high (6). Rathbones again set out Mr Ps risk classification in a letter 
dated 6 August 2019. And I can see the risk profile, plus the relevant description, was also 
set out in the valuations sent to Mr P each quarter. Mr P says he didnt receive the 6 August 
2019 letter and that he would have objected to his risk classification if hed received that 
letter. Even if Mr P didnt receive that letter, Im satisfied that he should reasonably have 
been aware that hed been categorised with a very high-risk profile because it was 
reasonably clearly set out in other communications with him, and hed signed the client 
information update to confirm it was accurate. Im also satisfied that Mr P had the opportunity 
to contact Rathbones if he didnt think a very high-risk profile was suitable for him.
That said, Rathbones also had a duty to ensure the risk category was suitable for Mr P. The 
very high-risk profile seems to have originated to reflect the lack of diversification in Mr Ps 
portfolio when he managed it with his previous broker. In particular, around 40% of his 
portfolio was invested in one company. Im satisfied that Rathbones explained the risks of 
this lack of diversification to Mr P and that he must reasonably have understood that the 
concentration of his portfolio in one holding reflected a very high-risk approach.
Im also satisfied that very high risk reflected the profile of this portfolio, rather than Mr Ps 
overall attitude to risk. Its clear this portfolio was not Mr Ps only investment or source of 
funds. Although he chose not to provide full details of his finances to Rathbones, its clear 
that Mr Ps circumstances were such that he wasnt reliant on this portfolio to maintain his 
standard of living. And hed ticked a box in the August 2019 Client Information Update to say 
that he could withstand some permanent loss of capital from his portfolio without 
significant and immediate consequences to your financial security or standard of living. This 
leads me to conclude that a very high risk portfolio wasnt unsuitable in Mr Ps 
circumstances.
Mr P has questioned Rathbones description of very high risk. He says that it means 100% is 
invested in equities but that this doesnt differentiate the type of equities and nature of 
trading. There isnt a standard definition of risk, and its up to Rathbones how it chooses to 
define each of its risk categories. It provides an indication of how much of the portfolio might 
be invested in equities and it suggests that its high and very high risk categories could 
have 100% investment in equities. I dont find that to be inappropriate.
Investment time horizonMr P says a five-to-ten-year investment time horizon wasnt appropriate for him, in view of 
his advancing years. I understand his concerns, but I can see that he chose a five-to-ten-
year investment time horizon when he completed the Client Information Update form. I think 
its important to take into account that Mr P continued to enjoy a very active and busy 
lifestyle and didnt make his adviser aware of any health concerns. Im satisfied that the 
relationship with his advisor was such that his circumstances were regularly discussed, and 
the time horizon could be revisited as and when necessary. Taking his individual 
circumstances into account, I dont find the time horizon to be inappropriate. 
Timing and suitability of trading 
In signing a discretionary management agreement, Mr P agreed that Rathbones would 
manage his investments and make changes without his agreement. Im satisfied Mr P was 
aware that under a discretionary mandate Rathbones would reconstruct the portfolio to 
ensure it was suitable for Mr Ps investment objectives and risk profile. In particular it was 
necessary to decrease some of Mr Ps existing overweight holdings and reinvest to ensure 
the portfolio was sufficiently diversified. Im satisfied that, after the initial trades on 
18 November 2020, Rathbones wrote to Mr P to tell him what it had done and why. And Mr P 
replied to say that he wasnt surprised with the majority of the trades, which suggests to me 
that he understood and agreed with the strategy being employed by Rathbones.
I dont think Rathbones acted unreasonably in carrying out trades when it did to reconstruct 
the portfolio to ensure it was suitable for Mr P. Whilst short-term price movements may not 
have been in Mr Ps favour, this doesnt mean the trades were unsuitable, particularly taking 
into account the agreed longer term approach. And Im satisfied Rathbones clearly set out its 
reasons for the trades after theyd taken place and explained this again in response to 
Mr Ps complaint.
Complaint handling
As a business regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, Rathbones is obliged to follow 
certain rules and regulations in response to a consumers complaint. This includes treating 
an expression of dissatisfaction which may have led to financial loss as a complaint and 
handling it in accordance with its complaint management policy; and ensuring complainants 
are made aware of their right to refer to this service.
Im satisfied that Rathbones acted appropriately, and in line with its regulatory obligations, in 
treating Mr Ps letter to its regional manager as a complaint, rather than the regional 
manager providing a response. And Rathbones was obliged to tell Mr P about his right to 
refer his complaint to this service.  
In its final response letter, Rathbones offered to credit Mr Ps investment account with £200, 
in recognition of the inconvenience hed been caused in bringing his complaint. Whilst 
I havent upheld Mr Ps complaint, I think its fair that Rathbones honours this offer, and Im 
pleased that its told us it is still prepared to make this payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that Rathbone Investment Management Limited should pay Mr P £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth DawesOmbudsman