DRN-2602064
The complaint
T is unhappy that First Data Europe Limited didnt honour promises that they had made with 
regard to not charging fees for the first three months of the account.
What happened
T is a small business. T purchased a payment processing machine from First Data having 
been promised that T would not be charged a joining fee or terminal rental or merchant 
service fees for the first three months. T was also told by First Data that they would 
compensate T the amount required to enable T to buy themselves out of their old payment 
processing contract.
T was unhappy because First Data didnt honour any of these promises, so they made a 
complaint. First Data looked at Ts complaint. They noted that T was eligible for the free 
months as they had told T, but that the particulars of the offer were that T would make the 
payments and then be reimbursed, rather than not having to make the payments at all.
First Data agreed that this hadnt been clearly explained to T, and they also agreed that they 
hadnt paid T for the remained of their previous contract, as they had promised to. So, they 
upheld Ts complaint and reimbursed T the first three months terminal rental and merchant 
service fees in line with what they had agreed, and the amount needed to pay off the 
remainder of Ts old contract. First Data also reimbursed T the joining fee and credited T 
with a further £100 by way of an apology for the inconvenience caused.
T didnt feel that First Datas response went far enough, and they also felt that First Data 
were withholding money from the processed payments from them, so they referred their 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the steps that First Data had 
already taken represented a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. They also noted 
that the money that First Data was withholding was for the monthly account fees which T 
werent currently making payments for, and that First Data were within their rights to take this 
money. So, they didnt uphold the complaint either.
T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that T feel strong about this complaint. But having completed my review, I find that I 
have reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for the same reasons.
First Data have upheld Ts complaint and taken the steps necessary to return T to the 
position that they should have been in had the issues that T complained about not taken 
place. This included reimbursing T for the first three months terminal fees and merchant fees 
and charges as was agreed at the point of sale, as well as the other reimbursements 
referenced above. 
In addition to this, First Data also made a payment of £100 to T by way of compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. First Data also wrote off a small balance that was still 
outstanding on Ts account after these payments had been credited to T as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Compensation is always a subjective issue, and what one person considers reasonable may 
not be consider so by a different person. But the £100 that First Data have paid T here 
seems fair to me, and I must note that it is commensurate with what this service would 
expect, given the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that T is unhappy with what they see as First Data withholding money from 
them. However, the money that First Data have withheld corresponds to the monthly 
payments due on the account which T hasnt set up a direct debit to pay. This seems 
reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that First Data taking this action is permitted in 
accordance with section 17 of the Merchant Conditions, which T agreed to at the time that 
they entered into the contract with First Data. 
Finally, I note that T is concerned that they have been paying more per month than was 
agreed at the point of sale. Ive reviewed the application documents which confirm the 
pricing structure and cant see that this is that case. However, I would recommend that First 
Data liaise with T to answer any pricing questions that T may have.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that First Data have treated T unfairly 
or unreasonably here. I say this because First Data have already taken the steps necessary 
to honour the promises that they made to T and have also credited T a reasonable amount 
of compensation for the inconvenience caused.
I understand that this wont be the outcome that T were wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking First Data to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman