DRN-3375015
The complaint
Mr H complains that Great American International Insurance (UK) Limited declined the claim 
he made on his specialist art insurance. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  and Ill explain 
why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say that the policy provides cover for accidental 
damage of fine art. And Mr Hs testimony suggests that his claim relates to accidental 
damage of his artwork.
However, the artwork was passed to an art conservator to assess. And the conservators 
report provided information on each piece of damaged artwork as well as a summary which 
said:
In conclusion I see no evidence of impact damage but would suggest that at some 
point there has been slight water ingress causing minimal damage. There is also the 
very beginning of foxing which is prone to develop in damp conditions and is a type 
of mould.
So, an expert in the field has said that the damage isnt consistent with impact. Turning to 
the terms and conditions, I note that under the section Significant or unusual exclusions or 
limitations, it says:
Gradual loss  excludes damage caused by or resulting from a gradually operating 
cause including normal deterioration, warping, action of light, exposure to climatic 
temperatures, corrosion, rust and any kind of rot, mould or fungus.
The information provided by the expert indicates gradual loss. I say this as the report refers 
to water ingress, damp conditions and the very beginning of a type of mould forming. The 
damage described wouldnt be caused suddenly as the result of accidentally dropping the 
artwork i.e. accidental damage. So the damage isnt covered by the policy as its been 
specifically excluded.
The investigator explained that the insurer hadnt done anything wrong by relying on the 
expert evidence provided. He made Mr H aware that hed consider any additional expert 
evidence provided. Mr H hasnt provided anything further, but he did question how an 
accurate opinion could be given on his artwork, given the passage of time. I note that the 
expert evidence was produced in October 2020, shortly after the time of the incident. So I 
conclude that this is the most persuasive evidence thats been provided.
Based on the evidence Ive been provided and the terms and conditions of the cover, Im 
satisfied that Great American International Insurance (UK) Limited acted fairly in declining 
this claim as it was the result of gradual loss which is excluded. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Great American 
International Insurance (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman