DRN-4095028
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) unfairly 
recorded a late mortgage payment on her credit file. She asks that it is removed.
What happened
Mrs Fs direct debit arrangements with Birmingham Midshires changed in late 2021. 
Previously Birmingham Midshires collected two payments, one for each of Mrs Fs accounts. 
The accounts were merged in late 2021. Mrs F wanted to take out a new product and had 
been told she needed to change to a single direct debit before doing this. Birmingham 
Midshires says a single direct debit payment was successfully taken in November 2021 and 
(after the new product took effect) in December 2021.
Mrs F says she made an error which resulted in the wrong direct debit being cancelled. Her 
mortgage payment due in January 2022 wasnt collected. Mrs F says she was away at the 
time with a sick relative, and didnt receive Birmingham Midshires letter about the cancelled 
direct debit until she returned in early February 2022. She immediately called to make the 
payment and to set up a correct direct debit. Mrs F says Birmingham Midshires told her this 
wouldnt affect her credit file.
Later in 2022 Mrs F discovered Birmingham Midshires had recorded a late payment on her 
credit file. She says this affects her ability to borrow, and to take out another mortgage.
Birmingham Midshires says it received a request to cancel the direct debit in early January 
2022. It sent a letter to confirm it had done this and to remind Mrs F she needed to make the 
payment by other means. Birmingham Midshires said it couldnt remove the late payment 
marker, as this was factually accurate.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties, explaining why I intended to uphold this complaint 
and require Birmingham Midshires to remove the late payment from Mrs Fs credit file. Both 
parties agreed. My findings below are substantially the same as set out in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about what happened here. The issue is whether its fair and reasonable 
to require Birmingham Midshires to remove the late payment from Mrs Fs credit file.
Lenders are required to record accurate and up to date information with the credit reference 
agencies. This is to assist other lenders when making a lending decision. Birmingham 
Midshires recorded a late payment on Mrs Fs credit file. This was accurate information. The 
payment due in January 2022 wasnt made before the end of the month. I dont think it was 
wrong for Birmingham Midshires to record this payment as late.
Mrs F says she was told when she made the payment in February 2022 that her credit file 
wouldnt be affected. If so, this was wrong. Birmingham Midshires hasnt provided its notes 
or a recording of this conversation.
While I dont think Birmingham Midshires was wrong to record the late payment on Mrs Fs 
credit file, I think it should have considered whether it was fair to remove the adverse data 
when Mrs F contacted it and explained what had happened.
When looking into this complaint, Ive taken into account the Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies, and its foreword by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The foreword says A record lodged with a CRA 
must be a reliable reflection of an individuals credit standing. Principle 1 says that reported 
data must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to date. And principle 2 says The 
purpose of reporting arrears is to indicate at the earliest reasonable opportunity that a 
customer is showing signs of potential financial difficulty or inability to manage his/her 
finances.
Theres no suggestion that Mrs F was in financial difficulty. Birmingham Midshires accepts 
there were sufficient funds in Mrs Fs account for the payment.
Birmingham Midshires hasnt said or provided evidence that Mrs F had other late or missed 
payments. While a late payment could be an early warning sign of financial difficulty or 
difficulties managing an account, the available evidence doesnt suggest thats the case 
here.
I think Birmingham Midshires should also have considered whether reporting the late 
payment was fair, taking the wider circumstances into account. Birmingham Midshires had 
changed the way it administered Mrs Fs mortgage accounts and payments. Mrs F made an 
error when she then cancelled the wrong direct debit. As soon as she became aware of the 
error, Mrs F made the payment and set up a direct debit. Had Mrs F been at home shed 
have received the letter confirming the cancelled direct debit in mid-January 2022. Shed 
have had time to make the payment before the end of January 2022, and I think its likely 
shed have done so. Unfortunately, Mrs F was away from home, visiting a close family 
member who was unwell and has since died.
I appreciate the points previously made by Birmingham Midshires  that the payment was 
late, and that other lenders rely on reported data when making decisions. But based on the 
available evidence, I dont think Mrs F was in financial difficulties or unable to manage her 
account. 
I think the late payment came about because of a particular combination of events  the 
change to the direct debit arrangements, Mrs Fs own genuine error and her being away 
from home for a month in what must have been upsetting circumstances. Its unlikely this 
combination of events will be repeated. I dont think the record of the late payment is a 
reliable reflection of Mrs Fs credit standing.
Its possible the adverse data will affect Mrs Fs ability to secure credit, and her cost of credit, 
for some years. In the circumstances, I think it would be fair for Birmingham Midshires to 
remove it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Birmingham Midshires) to remove the late payment from Mrs Fs credit file. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman