DRN-1915396
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs L are unhappy about the way in which Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) 
handled a claim made on their travel insurance policy.
They are being represented by their daughter, who Ill call Ms R.  
What happened
Mr D and Mrs L had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, insurance policy - underwritten by 
URV.  Whilst on holiday in December 2018, Mrs L suffered a serious skeletal injury. She was 
immediately taken to a public hospital in the European country she and Mr D were visiting. 
URV was notified of the incident the following day.
Mr D and Mrs L are unhappy with the assistance provided by URV during this time. They say 
URV was aware of the advice of the treating doctor that although surgery should take place 
as soon as possible, and within three days, hed also said that it was unlikely that the public 
hospital shed been admitted to would be able to carry out the operation for three weeks. 
The surgery ended up taking place over three weeks later. 
Mr D and Mrs L say URV shouldve either arranged for Mrs L to have been transferred to a 
private hospital to be operated on or repatriated back to the UK for the surgery to take place.
Because this didnt happen, they say Mrs L was left in a very precarious situation; she was 
unable to mobilise and needed to lay very still on her hospital bed to prevent causing 
damage to her spinal cord. They say she was in considerable pain for much longer than she 
needed to be and, being bed-bound, was forced to wear a nappy. As a result of her 
restricted movement, they say Mrs L developed a bladder infection.
URV did accept that the customer service it provided, on occasion, fell short of its expected 
standards and it offered to pay £300 in compensation for this. However, it didnt think it had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by not arranging Mrs Ls transfer from the public hospital 
shed been admitted to.
Unhappy Mr D and Mrs L complained to our Service. 
Our investigator upheld their complaint. She said URV shouldve done more to assist Mrs L 
and it shouldve arranged for her to be moved from the hospital she was at so she could 
receive the surgery she needed. Because that didnt happen, she said Mr D and Mrs L 
experienced considerable unnecessary distress and inconvenience - and URVs behaviour 
exacerbated an already distressing and worrying time for them. 
She recommended that URV put things right by paying them compensation in the sum of 
£5,000. She also said Mr D and Mrs Ls holiday had been cut short by her admission to 
hospital and recommended it pay two days pre-paid accommodation costs.
Mr D and Mrs L accepted our investigators recommendation. 
URV disagreed, raising several points in reply. It did, however, offer to increase its offer of 
compensation from £300 to £2,500. Mr D and Mrs L declined that offer.
The complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant FCA regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Before I explain why Im upholding this complaint, I acknowledge that URV and Ms R (on 
behalf of Mr D and Mrs L) have raised a number of points which Ive considered in full. But 
Ive limited my decision to what I consider to be most relevant in this complaint and by doing 
so I mean no disrespect to the parties by not commenting on each point raised.
URVs system notes show that on 15 December 2018, the day after the accident, Mr D 
notified it of Mrs Ls injury and the treating doctors advice that she should be operated on 
immediately. However, as shed been admitted to a public hospital, he also informed URVs 
representative that it would take two weeks for the surgery to take place; whereas if Mrs L 
was transferred to a private hospital, the surgery would take place a lot sooner. 
I can see that URV contacted the hospital the day after and spoke to the treating doctor. The 
notes are consistent with what Mr D was told and reflect that the treating doctor said:
the ideal would be to get the surgery done in 2-3 days.. At the moment this is not possible 
due to the waiting list the surgery can only be done within 2-3 weeks. He is also a 
practitioner in a private Hospital  He could get the surgery done in 2 days there And 
that the public health system in the country Mr D and Mrs L was in was very bad at the 
moment.By this stage, Mrs L had been injured for two days. And URVs system notes from around 
the time reflect that she cant wait three weeks for surgery given the nature of her injury. And 
although its noted that her operation isnt an emergency (needs to be done immediately)... 
it does need to be done urgently. Three possible options are set out by URV in the system 
notes; repatriation back to the UK, a transfer to another public facility and private surgery.
During a call between Ms R and URVs representative dated 17 December 2018, shes told 
that because there isnt a public hospital in the area of the country Mr D and Mrs L were in 
that would be able to operate on her, the only option was to repatriate Mrs L to the UK for 
surgery. 
Presented with this option Ms R agreed as she was keen for Mrs L to have the surgery she 
needed as soon as possible. However, the following day, on 18 December 2018, URV 
reneged on this offer; thats because, as URVs doctor told Ms R at the time, he was deeply 
unenthusiastic about moving Mrs L back to the UK given the risk involved. However, he did 
accept that three weeks to wait for surgery was way too long because you start to get 
union at that time and that means you can get malunion. 
The same day URVs agent attended the public hospital and reported to URV that it was 
likely that Mrs L will be put on the operating list within the next few days. And it was 
anticipated that she will have the surgery within one week.
So at that point, four days after Mrs L sustained her injury, URV was on notice that the 
hospital might not be able to operate for another week  11 days after she sustained her 
injury. Thats despite the initial medical advice that the operation should take place within 
three days. 
By this stage, theres nothing in the system notes to suggest that URV had explored whether 
another public hospital  or a private hospital - could operate on Mrs L sooner. Given the 
severity of her injury and the advice that she needed to be operated on urgently, I think it 
wouldve been fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint for URV to have 
made enquires at that stage. If that had been done, I think its likely Mrs L couldve been 
operated on within a couple of days as thats what the treating doctor in the hospital advised 
at the outset. 
Further, after Ms R contacted the British Embassy for Assistance, she received an email, on 
21 December 2018, to say that shed spoken to a treating doctor at the hospital and there 
was an ongoing technicians strike which meant the hospital had limited resources to work 
with. That, plus the fact that more urgent cases need to be given priority means that your 
mother will not have the operation before next year. I asked if they set a date for her 
operation next year, but she told me there wasn't one, as it depends on the strike and the 
other cases coming in. She didn't know when they would be able to operate.
URV was notified of this on the same date. But again, URV didnt explore whether Mrs L 
could be transported to a private hospital. Thats despite URVs doctor calling Mr D and 
Mrs L directly and being told by them that the advice from the hospital was now that the 
operation wouldnt now take place that year and might not take place until 11 January 2019 
 almost one month after the date Mrs L sustained her injury. 
URVs doctor was, once again, informed that Mrs L had been advised by the treating doctor 
that if she was transferred to a private hospital, he could carry out the surgery within a 
couple of days with the same medical team. But URVs doctor dismissed this option on the 
basis that URV wouldnt allow one of its policyholders to be transferred to the particular 
private hospital as he had concerns about the standard of care they would receive there. All 
the while accepting at the end of the call that you need to be operated on as soon as possible in an appropriate facility it is possible that  we can persuade the authorise to do 
it either there or (another part of the country). And if not we can then examine other 
options
Im satisfied that based on the medical advice Mrs L was receiving from the public hospital 
and URV that her situation was becoming increasingly more urgent. But despite Ms R raising 
a complaint about she and her parents losing all confidence in URVs medical team, and 
chasing URV several times for a reply, other than sending its agent to the hospital to see if 
they could speak to the doctors (who were unavailable), it still doesnt look like URV 
proactively explored any other options to assist Mrs L. It seems URV was willing to let her 
wait to have surgery at the public hospital. I dont think that was fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. 
URVs doctor had previously said Mrs L shouldnt be repatriated back to the UK for surgery. 
Hed also expressed to Ms R and her parents why he wouldnt agree to Mrs Ls transfer to 
the private hospital theyd been suggested. Ive listened to the various calls he had with them 
and it appears that he has a general aversion to private hospitals in the Mediterranean area 
and he says during a conversation on 18 December 2018 that there isnt a private hospital in 
a tourist area in the Mediterranean that he would ever trust any of our clients in. 
In response to our investigators view, URV has said that its doctor has been dealing with 
private clinics in the Mediterranean area for 40 years, and during that time has seen the life 
changing or indeed fatal consequences of seriously ill travellers being misdiagnosed or 
mistreated within them. But URV hasnt provided any evidence to support that or the 
standard of care Mrs L mightve received there. So Im not persuaded, in the circumstances 
of this particular case, Mrs Ls health wouldve been further compromised by receiving 
surgery at a private hospital  particularly as this was on the options initially mentioned in 
URVs notes.
URVs doctor was also very critical of the practice of doctors who divert patients to a private 
hospital for their own financial gain, and purporting that the operation can be performed 
more quickly in the private sector. And he suggested that the treating doctor may be doing 
that here. However, it was a different treating doctor whod advised the British Embassy on 
21 December 2018 that the public hospital had limited resources due to a technicians strike. 
So, in this particular case, Im persuaded that the treating doctor was right when he said at 
the outset that it might take a few weeks for Mrs L to be operated on at the public hospital 
and that the operation could take place in a private hospital within two days. And even if, as 
URV says, the treating doctor was wrong when he initially told Mr D and Mrs L that he was 
the only doctor at the public hospital who could operate on her and that surgeries only took 
place on certain days, Im not persuaded that hed only recommended surgery at the private 
hospital for personal financial gain. 
URV has also said that Mrs L wouldve received excellent treatment in the public hospital 
had the surgery taken place within the first or second week of her being admitted were it not 
for the arrival of more acute patients. The standard of treatment she received from the public 
hospital or the public health system in the country Mr D and Mrs L were in isnt the subject of 
this complaint; but the availability for Mrs L to receive the urgent surgery she needed within 
the desired timeframe is. 
URV says Mrs L was put on the operating list twice but surgery didnt take place as more 
urgent case took precedence. URVs system notes dont reflect that happened so our 
investigator asked Mr D and Mrs L. They say Mrs L was informed that she was named as 
back-up on the operating list on 28 December 2018. But there was no real expectation that 
surgery would take place, as preparations for surgery were not undertaken. And although 
she was second on the operating list on 4 January 2019, her operation didnt take place then. Thats not inconsistent with the proposed timetable that was put forward by URV in its 
email to Ms R, replying to her complaint dated 29 December 2019. And in the absence of 
any further evidence to the contrary, I accept what Mr D and Mrs L say about that.
URV has also said there is every likelihood that had Mrs L been moved, her spinal cord 
wouldve been irreparably damaged in the process. Im not medically trained but I accept 
that was a risk based on the accounts Ive seen but Im not persuaded that there was every 
likelihood of this happening. As Ive explained above, there were three options noted by 
another doctor in URVs medical team initially and they all involved transferring Mrs L 
somewhere else. And I havent seen any evidence of URVs medical team discussing the 
risk of moving Mrs L at all was too high when compared to the risk of her remaining in the 
public hospital, and not being operated within the required timeframe.
Summary:
URV accepts that its level of customer service fell below the expected standard. It accepts 
that there were times it didnt get back to Ms R  on behalf of Mr D and Mrs L - as quickly as 
they shouldve. Nor should Ms R have been told that it would arrange the repatriation of 
Mrs L on 17 December 2018, raising a false expectation that Mrs L would be imminently 
returned to the UK for surgery.
For the reasons set out above, Im also satisfied that it failed to explore all viable options to 
consider whether Mrs L couldve received the surgery, which both URVs medical team and 
the treating doctor, accept was needed as a matter of urgency. I think it shouldve 
reasonably done this by 18 December 2018 having received confirmation from its agent that 
the hospital expected the surgery to take place within a week  and certainly by 21 
December 2018, when it was made aware by the British Embassy that it had spoken to the 
hospital and had been informed that the surgery wouldnt be taking place until the new year.
Had URV explored the option of the transferring Mrs L to a private hospital for surgery, 
based on everything Ive seen, Ive no reason to doubt that the surgery wouldnt have taken 
place within a couple of days, as the treating doctor had been telling Mr D, Mrs L and URV. 
When concluding this, Ive taken into account that URVs notes reflect that its representative 
told Ms R as early as 16 December 2018 that the policy doesnt cover treatment in private 
hospitals. However, I dont think thats right  there isnt a blanket exclusion on private 
treatment in the policy. The policy says the cost of private medical treatment isnt covered 
unless it has been approved in advance by URVs 24-hour medical helpline and adequate 
public facilities are not available. So, URV has a discretion to authorise treatment in a private 
hospital in certain circumstances. 
In the circumstances of this particular complaint Im persuaded for all the reasons Ive set out 
above, that the medical helpline ought reasonably to have approved the transfer to a private 
hospital for the surgery so Mrs Ls surgery shouldve taken place sooner as adequate 
facilities werent available for Mrs L to be operated on in the public hospital within the 
timescales needed.
The impact of Mr D and Mrs L:
Although URV raised several points disagreeing with our investigators outcome, in response 
to her view, it offered to increase the level of compensation it would pay Mr D and Mrs L 
from £300 to £2,500. But Im not persuaded that fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience Mr D and 
Mrs L experienced  which Im satisfied was extreme. Im satisfied that £5,000 is a fairer 
reflection of the trouble and upset they suffered as a result of what URV did wrong here. 
Thats because Mrs L:
was confined to her bed with restricted movement for much longer  possibly two 
weeks longer  than she wouldve been than if shed been moved from the public 
hospital she was in and operated on much sooner that she was. During this time, I 
accept that she feared that any sudden movement could irreparably damage her 
spine. And Im satisfied this unnecessarily and unreasonably exacerbated an already 
frightening and traumatic situation for her. 
says she contracted a bladder infection towards the end of December 2018 which I 
have no reason to doubt as URVs doctor had advised during a phone call with Ms R 
on 19 December 2018 that one of the risks of not operating and being left to lay down 
with restricted movement, was a bladder infection. I also have no reason to doubt 
that she was in terrible pain as communicated to URV and reflected in its system 
notes dated 2 January 2018.
thought steps were being taken to arrange her repatriation back to the UK for surgery 
on 17 December 2018, only for URV to renege on that proposed course of action, the 
following day. Given the situation she found herself in, and the medical advice that 
she should be operated on as a matter of urgency, Im satisfied this wouldve been a 
huge disappointment and wouldve added to the uncertainty at a very frightening time 
for her. Particularly as shed been told that if she remained in the public hospital the 
operation wouldnt take place for three weeks.
wouldve been frustrated by URV not providing information to Ms R, particularly 
towards the end of December 2018, when she was trying to get answers about what 
it was doing, whilst still not knowing when her operation would take place, or whether 
URV would be providing further assistance to move her from the public hospital. I 
accept it unnecessarily contributed to the worry she was feeling.
Im also satisfied that both Mr D and Mrs L wouldve been upset by the call they received 
directly from URVs doctor on 22 December 2018. I know URV says the medical team like to 
speak with the patient, or those with the patient, directly. But Mr D and Mrs L had asked that 
communications go through Ms R who URV had been dealing with up until that point  other 
than when URV was initially notified of the Mrs Ls injury  including the medical team. And 
URV hadnt said that it would be contacting Mr D and Mrs L directly. To receive a call without 
warning, wouldve been frustrating and upsetting. Mrs L became upset during the call given 
the way shed been treated by URV up that point. Its clear that she didnt think it had been 
acting in her best interests and she was, understandably, frustrated and scared. This wasnt 
helped by URVs doctor interjecting and talking over her.
Im also satisfied that Mr D wouldve been frustrated by this call. And although this was a 
very worrying and traumatic time for him, being involved  and injured - in the accident that 
caused Mrs Ls serious injury, this wouldve been exacerbated further by seeing Mrs L being 
in pain, upset and worried with her movement being restricted, for much longer than was 
necessary. I accept this wouldve caused him considerable upset, distress and frustration. 
Other issues:
Once Mrs L was admitted to hospital on 14 December 2018, given the nature of her injury, 
hers and Mr Ds holiday was effectively cut short, two days before she was due to fly back to the UK. She couldnt use the accommodation she and Mr D had paid for and had planned to 
stay at for the remainder of their holiday. And Mr D has told us, and I accept, that he didnt 
use the accommodation for those two days as he wanted to be with Mrs L.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date we notify URV that Mr D and Mrs L accept my final decision, I 
direct URV to pay them:
£5,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience. URV can deduct from this 
amount the sum of £300 it had offered to pay Mr D and Mrs L to compensate them 
for the customer service failings, if this has already been paid to them.
An amount equivalent to two nights pre-paid accommodation costs to cover the 
period 14 to 16 December 2018 inclusive.

My final decision
I uphold Mr D and Mrs Ls complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman