DRN-3072435
The complaint
Mr B complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Carnwyllon 
Wealth Management Ltd (CWM, the respondent business in this complaint) and another 
financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He believes that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined- benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr B was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted CWM. 
Mr B met with CWM in July 2017, during which it gathered information about his financial 
circumstances. But as CWM didnt hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his defined benefits in the BSPS, it referred 
Mr B to Firm B.
Firm B carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm B then sent Mr B a recommendation letter on 31 August 2017 advising him to 
transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. It recommended he invest the funds 
with a business Ill refer to as M. The BSPS funds were transferred to his new pension 
along with the value of an additional voluntary contribution (AVC) plan he held. The funds 
were invested with M and Firm B took a fee of £3,895.85 (representing 1% of his transfer 
value). Mr B was referred back to CWM for ongoing advice and servicing of his pension and 
CWM also took a fee of £3,895.85.
In 2019 Mr B complained to both CWM and Firm B about the advice.
Firm B didnt uphold the complaint and Mr B referred his complaint about it to our service. 
However, whilst the complaint was with us, Firm B went into liquidation so Mr Bs complaint 
about this business has been referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS).
CWM told Mr B it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to Firm B.
 
Mr Bs representative asked our service to consider his complaint, saying CWM should be 
held liable for the advice. The representative said Mr B had only met with CWM  he didnt 
recall meeting with Firm B. It said Mr B had been verbally advised to transfer by CWM and 
he had relied on its advice.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She wasnt persuaded that CWM had advised 
Mr B to transfer his pension  she was satisfied that Mr B had only transferred his pension 
because Firm B advised him to do so. However, the investigator thought CWM should refund 
the fee it received from Mr B for the role it played in the transfer (as well as any associated 
investment loss). This was because she didnt think Mr B had been made aware he would be 
paying CWM this fee, in addition to the fee he had paid Firm B for the advice.
CWM didnt accept this. It said Mr B had been made aware the total fee would be equivalent 
to 2% of the transfer value of his BSPS benefits, split equally between the two firms. 
Furthermore, it said Mr B had signed an ad-hoc payment instruction agreeing to pay the fee 
of £3,895.85 to CWM.
As CWM didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
After reviewing the complaint, I contacted Mr Bs representative explaining that I didnt intend 
to uphold the complaint. I thought Mr B was aware he would be paying CWM a 1% fee for 
the role it played in the transfer of his BSPS benefits. And I didnt think CWM was 
responsible for the transfer of Mr Bs BSPS benefits to a personal pension, as Firm B had 
advised him to do so.
Mr Bs representative didnt accept this. It maintained that CWM had recommended that 
Mr B transfer his BSPS benefits to the pension plan with M and that CWM should be held 
liable for Mr Bs loss. It added that CWM didnt treat Mr B fairly by referring Mr B to Firm B as 
it should have known that defined-benefit pensions were valuable and that Firm B was likely 
to recommend a transfer. The representative also said it was a joint venture between the 
two businesses, evidenced by the advice fee being split between the two firms. It maintained 
that CWM should refund the fee it received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs representatives says CWM should be held liable for the advice on three grounds:
CWM verbally advised Mr B to transfer his pension and Mr B relied upon that advice 
despite Firm Bs involvement  CWM should be held accountable for that advice.
There was a joint venture between CWM and Firm B and there is authority from our 
service and the courts to support joint liability for the advice.
Even if CWM is not liable for the losses as a result of Mr B transferring out of the 
BSPS, CWM was still obliged to treat him fairly and have due regard to his best 
interests.
Ill address each point in turn.
Did CWM advise Mr B to transfer?
Mr Bs representative says that CWM should be held liable for the advice because it went 
beyond its role of introducer. It says CWM persuaded Mr B to transfer his BSPS benefits and 
take out the pension with M before Firm Bs involvement and Mr B relied on its advice. It says this is supported by the fact the application form for the pension with M was signed on 
24 July 2017, before Mr B was introduced to or received advice from Firm B.
CWM did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an introducer agreement in place with 
Firm B. Im aware of a significant number of customers seeking advice on their BSPS 
benefits who were introduced by CWM to Firm B. I note that Mr Bs representative has said 
there is a pattern of behaviour that can be drawn from this. This is because the majority of 
these customers were advised to take out the pension with M, and many say that CWM 
sold this product to them before any involvement of Firm B. However, in considering Mr Bs 
case, Ive made my decision based on the evidence available to me in respect of Mr Bs 
interactions with CWM.
Having considered the information available, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence 
to show that CWM advised Mr B to transfer his BSPS benefits. Based on what Ive seen, 
CWM met with Mr B on 24 July 2017 and it completed a fact-find and attitude to risk 
assessment. CWM didnt gather any information about Mr Bs objectives and I havent seen 
any evidence to show that CWM gave Mr B a personal recommendation. However,
I do think its likely that CWM was operating on the presumption that Firm B would probably 
advise Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS. So, I think its possible Mr B had the impression that 
CWM was advocating for the transfer of his BSPS benefits to a personal pension. But I dont 
think that necessarily means CWM advised Mr B to take out the pension with M.
Mr B says he didnt meet with anyone from Firm B, but he says he was aware of its 
involvement. The notes CWM made it in the fact-find support this; they say Mr B was told 
that because he was seeking advice on the transfer of defined-benefits, he would have to be 
referred to Firm B. I can see that Firm B issued its client agreement to Mr B on 24 July 2017, 
(although Mr B didnt sign this until 24 August 2017) and an attitude to risk assessment was 
also completed for Firm B on 24 July 2017  this is signed by Mr B on that date. The 
application form for the pension with M also identified that Firm B was providing Mr B with 
advice. And it was signed by Mr B and Firm Bs adviser on 24 July 2017, which included the 
details of Mr Bs BSPS benefits to be transferred.
Mr B disputes that Firm B couldve completed these documents because he said he only met 
with Mr M of CWM on that day. But even if no representative of Firm B was present at the 
meeting, I dont think the timing of the completion of the paperwork is particularly important 
here. Ultimately, it was Firm B that gave the advice to Mr B to transfer his pension. If CWM 
facilitated the completion of the paperwork, I dont think that means that it was giving Mr B its 
own advice.
I accept that the application for the pension with M was submitted before Firm B completed a 
pension transfer questionnaire and produced its recommendation letter in August 2017. But 
I dont think it is reasonable to conclude that the pension with M must have been 
recommended by CWM instead. It seems more likely to me that the application was made 
early in view of Ms deadline for new applications. And while Firm B didnt produce the 
recommendation letter until August 2017, it appears to have already decided that it was 
going to be recommending Mr B transfer his BSPS benefits to M when its adviser signed the 
application. So, overall, I think it was only because of Firm Bs involvement that Mr B applied 
for the pension with M and transferred his BSPS benefits to it.
Mr B says he relied on his interactions with CWM when deciding whether to transfer his 
BSPS benefits. But Mr B couldnt have transferred based on these interactions with CWM 
alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr B 
would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he 
wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr B would need to 
provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. It is clear to 
me, based on the evidence Ive seen, that CWM did not issue any recommendation letter or 
suitability report to Mr B advising him to transfer out of BSPS. However, Firm B issued a 
suitability report addressed to Mr B recommending that he transfer out of the BSPS to a 
pension with M. And it wrote to the BSPS trustees confirming it had given him this advice. 
So, Mr B couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on the meetings he had with CWM or 
any verbal advice he feels he was given.
I accept that CWM received a substantial part of the advice fee following Mr Bs transfer, as 
a result of it introducing Mr B to Firm B. But, ultimately, Firm B gave the advice for Mr B to 
transfer, and I dont think CWMs earlier involvement automatically makes CWM liable for the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm B.
 
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr B would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. Mr Bs 
representative says Mr B was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with CWM. 
But on balance I dont think Mr B wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm B.
Mr B was a relatively inexperienced investor and the risk assessment carried out by Firm B 
concluded he had a cautious attitude to risk. So, if Firm B had provided Mr B with clear 
advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think 
Mr B wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with CWM.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr B to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for 
Mr Bs losses flowing from the transfer. This includes the advice fee Mr B paid to Firm B and 
CWM. I dont think CWM needs to refund the fee it received because Im satisfied the fee 
was only payable if the transfer of the BSPS benefits went ahead, and Mr B was told this in 
his first meeting with CWM. And as it was Firm Bs advice that led to the transfer, this loss 
flows from that advice. Im aware that Firm B was declared in default by the FSCS, so Mr B 
will need to pursue a claim with the FSCS  I understand he is already in the process of 
doing so.
Mr Bs representative says it accepts Mr B was told the fees would be split between CWM 
and Firm B. However, it thinks Mr B was only ever told he would pay a fee of 1% of his 
transfer value, which he paid to Firm B. It said it was Firm Bs responsibility to pass on half of 
this fee to CWM after the transfer completed. It still feels the fee Mr B paid separately to 
CWM should be refunded. But I think on balance Mr B understood that he would pay a total 
fee of 2% of the transfer value. I dont think CWM wouldve neglected to tell him this when 
the fee sharing arrangement was explained to him in the meeting. And I note that he signed 
a separate ad-hoc payment instruction, agreeing to pay CWM £3,895.85, after the same 
figure had already been deducted from his pension with M and paid to Firm B. So, it seems 
to me he was expecting to pay this sum to CWM as well as Firm B. Furthermore, the 
payment of the fees to both businesses was dependent on Mr B transferring his BSPS 
pension. That only came about due to Firm Bs advice, so this loss flows from Firm Bs 
advice, as Ive said above.
Did CWM and Firm B embark on a joint venture?
CWM states a joint venture existed between CWM and Firm B to facilitate Mr B transferring 
out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss Mr B has 
suffered. It says that the joint venture primarily involved CWM verbally advising Mr B to 
transfer out of the BSPS before introducing him to Firm B to formally recommend the 
pension transfer to a new pension plan, before returning to CWM for ongoing advice. Due to 
the nature of the joint venture and the number of pension transfers likely carried out in this manner, the representative wants me to ascertain how many clients CWM introduced to 
Firm B and how many of those received a positive recommendation to transfer and were 
returned to CWM for ongoing advice.
I understand why Mr Bs representative has raised this concern  it seeks to establish a 
pattern that evidences the alleged joint venture. But Mr Bs representative will understand 
that the individual details of each case are always different  which is why this service 
decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So, in deciding this complaint, Ill 
only look at the individual facts and merits applicable to Mr Bs personal dealings with CWM. 
I wont be considering CWMs alleged acts or omissions in other cases where it introduced 
individuals to Firm B. And I wont be considering the acts or omissions of Firm B in its 
dealing with Mr B because this complaint is about CWM rather than Firm B.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
CWM liable for the advice given to Mr B to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Bs 
representative states that Mr B was verbally advised to transfer by CWM, Im not persuaded 
that it gave him a personal recommendation. The evidence Ive seen shows that Firm B gave 
Mr B a personal recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS based on its own analysis.
Firm B didnt rely on CWMs earlier fact-finding, but instead completed its own attitude to risk 
assessment and pension transfer questionnaire. It also produced a TVAS report, which 
CWM did not. CWM didnt have permission from the FCA to advise on pension transfers, so 
Mr B could only have transferred his BSPS benefits as a result of Firm Bs advice. If Firm B 
had advised Mr B against transferring, I think he wouldve most likely followed that advice. 
So, I think Mr Bs losses flow from that advice, rather than because of any interaction he had 
with CWM before that. For this reason, I dont think CWM should be held liable for the advice 
on the basis that it was a joint venture between it and Firm B.
 
CWM did not treat Mr B fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Bs representative has suggested that CWM didnt treat Mr B fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm B as it did not carry out appropriate analysis of Firm B 
before referring Mr B to it. It argues CWM should have done so to prevent Mr B suffering 
detriment, as it ought to have been aware that defined-benefit pensions were valuable and 
that it wasnt usually in a customers best interests to transfer out.
As I have said above, CWM did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise
Mr B on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, I dont think it is fair to say that CWM should 
have advised Mr B against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about 
the regulators starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to 
transfer out. As CWM didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr B to Firm B, 
which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think CWM could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, particularly as Firm B 
had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated 
adviser, it was also required to treat Mr B fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with 
suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was CWMs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Bs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. I am also not 
persuaded that CWM made an error or treated Mr B unfairly in the role it carried out.
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require CWM to pay compensation to Mr B or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman