DRN-3139694
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC approved him for a credit card account which he 
feels was unaffordable for him at that time.
What happened
In February 2013, Mr P was approved by Lloyds for a credit card account with an initial credit 
limit of £7,000. In June 2020, Mr P raised a complaint with Lloyds because he felt that the 
credit that was provided to him by Lloyds in 2013 hadnt been affordable for him at that time.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they felt that because Mr P had raised his complaint 
about the provision of credit more than six years after the event, that Mr P had made his 
complaint too late such that Lloyds didnt reasonably have to consider it.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. It 
was decided by an ombudsman that the merits of Mr Ps complaint could be considered by 
this service, and the complaint was then passed to one of our investigators to review 
accordingly.
But our investigator felt that the information that was available to them from the time of the 
provision of credit in February 2013 didnt appear to demonstrate that Mr Ps financial 
position at that time was such that it could be reasonably concluded that Mr P most likely 
couldnt afford the credit that Lloyds provided to him. And because of this, our investigator 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have explained that, because of the length of time that has elapsed since the initial 
provision of credit in February 2013, they no longer retain a record of the creditworthiness 
assessment that they undertook on Mr P before offering him that credit. This seems 
reasonable to me, and it wouldnt be expected by this service that Lloyds would have 
retained this information beyond the six years that such information is usually held.
However, this makes it somewhat difficult to corroborate Mr Ps claim that his financial 
position in February 2013 was such that he couldnt afford the credit account with a £7,000 
credit limit that Lloyds approved him for at that time.
Mr P has provided a detailed testimony of why he feels that his financial position in 2013 was 
such that the provision of credit to him shouldnt have taken place. But as an impartial 
dispute resolution service, our approach in a situation such as this is to base our decisions, 
as much as reasonably possible, on the documentary information and evidence thats been 
presented to us.
In this instance, while Lloyds havent been able to provide a copy of the creditworthiness 
assessment that they undertook on Mr P at that time, they have been able to provide copies 
of Mr Ps Lloyds current account statements for the period leading up to the provision of 
credit in February 2013. And, having reviewed these statements, I dont feel that I can fairly 
or reasonably conclude that they show that Mr P was in demonstrable financial difficulty at 
that time, such that Lloyds shouldnt have provided the credit account to him.
I say this for several reasons, including that its evident from the statements that Mr P was 
employed and in receipt of monthly income. Its also evident that Mr P was able to maintain 
the balance of his account in credit for most of that period, and only used a portion of his 
agreed overdraft on one occasion, during which time he didnt exceed the agreed overdraft 
limit. I also feel that the statements demonstrate a notable amount of non-essential 
spending, all of which leads me to conclude that there is nothing within these statements that 
demonstrate that Mr P was in financial difficulty at that time to a degree where its apparent 
that Lloyds shouldnt have offered credit to him.
Mr P has stated that he had several doorstep loans at that time which he was repaying via 
cheque and that several of these cheques had been returned as unpaid, and that this 
highlights the difficult financial position that he was in. I can appreciate Mr Ps position here, 
but while I do note that several payments were made by cheque in the months leading up to 
the provision of credit, I dont feel that the cumulative amount of these payments was 
excessive in relation to the income that Mr P was receiving and how he otherwise managed 
his current account, I also note that none of these cheque payments were returned and that 
the balance of Mr Ps current account was sufficient at all times for each cheque to be 
honoured.
I will once again acknowledge the limitations of this assessment, which takes place nearly 
nine years after the event in question and as such without several pieces of information that 
would usually be reviewed and assessed. 
However, on the basis of the information I do have available to me, I dont feel that I can 
fairly or reasonably conclude that Lloyds should have determined that Mr Ps financial 
position in 2013 was such that they shouldnt have offered the credit to him that they did, and 
it seems to me that the picture of Mr Ps financial position that can be gained from the 
current account statements does, more likely than not, corroborate Lloyds position that they 
did undertake an affordability assessment at that time, the result of which was that Mr P 
would in all likelihood be able to afford the credit being provided to him.
It follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman