DRN-3810345
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains that Allied World Assurance Company 
(Europe) dac (Allied) unfairly avoided its Business Insurance policy and declined its claim.
Mr O, a director of H, brings the complaint on Hs behalf. 
What happened
H took out a Business Insurance policy in 2020. In July 2021, a third-party (which Ill refer to 
as C) made a claim against H after its vehicle caught fire following the installation of a 
hydraulic hose which was supplied by H. H made a claim under its product liability cover.  
Allied avoided Hs policy for breach of the duty of fair presentation and didnt consider its 
claim. Allied said the statement of fact completed by H when taking out the policy in 2020 
and when renewing in 2021 asked whether it knowingly supplied safety critical products to 
the motor industry  H answered no. And it also asked whether H alters, modifies, repairs 
or labels any goods  this was also answered no.
Allied said the answers to the above questions were not accurate which amounted to a 
breach of the duty of fair presentation under the Insurance Act 2015. Allied said the 
underwriter confirmed it would not have provided cover if H had answered the questions 
correctly. 
H did not accept Allieds response. It said that the question about providing safety critical 
products was not clear. In response to the first statement, H accepted that the hydraulic 
hose could be classed as a safety critical product, but it argued that so would other items it 
provided such as wipers and bulbs. It said that Allied was made aware that its business was 
a motor factor/spares provider and therefore Allied should have been aware that it would 
provide these products. Furthermore, it argued that it didnt knowingly provide these items 
to the motor industry because the goods were provided via a third-party company (which Ill 
refer to as B) for many years and it simply didnt know the end user of most of the products it 
supplied.    
In response to the statement about modifying products, H explained that the hydraulic hose, 
which is provided in a big roll, was cut to length to suit the need of the end user (C) and the 
ends of the hose crimped with a collar and fitting, but it wasnt modified beyond what is 
expected by the manufacturer. H says it wasnt responsible for fitting the hose which is what 
it thought caused the fire. 
Our investigator considered the case and he didnt think Allied had acted unfairly. He said in 
summary H had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. The statement of fact included 
questions which he thought were answered incorrectly. He was satisfied that had the 
information been disclosed, the underwriter wouldnt have accepted the risk.  
H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, it 
said it did answer the questions in the statement of fact correctly for the reasons given 
above. 
H also said that it didnt believe C was in the motor industry and that Allied knew H was a 
motor factor and so it should have explored its business further. H also questioned the 
suitability of the product because it didnt think the policy provided cover for its core purpose. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support their position. I want to assure 
them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve said, but I wont comment on 
everything. 
The issue for me to decide in this instance is whether or not it is fair and reasonable for
Allied to avoid Hs policy and decline its claim on the basis they have set out in their final 
response to Hs complaint. 
Allied made the decision to avoid Hs policy on the basis of a breach of the duty of fair 
presentation made by H when taking out the policy in 2020 and renewing the policy in 2021. 
When considering whether Allied acted fairly, the starting point is the Insurance Act 2015. 
Under this Act, commercial policyholders, such as H, have a duty to make a fair presentation 
of the risk to the insurer when taking out a policy. This means they have to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or 
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
Where there has been a failure to fairly present the risks to an insurer, and this gives the 
insurer a right to a remedy under the Act, this is called a qualifying breach.
The Statement of Fact that was sent to H in 2020 and 2021 included the following two 
statements:
Do you knowingly supply safety critical products and/or provide services to the 
medical, pharmaceutical, nuclear, aviation, aerospace, motor, marine, rail, offshore, 
defence, agricultural or petrochemical industries?
Do you alter, modify, repair or label any goods?
And it explained that if any of the information provided on the Statement of Fact was 
incorrect, this could mean that any future claims may not be paid.
Its not in dispute that the above statements were marked as no by H. However, H 
maintains that the answers provided to the above statements were accurate. 
Allied says there is a breach and it has confirmed that if accurate information had been 
provided in relation to either of the above two questions, the policy would not have been 
offered. 
I have started by considering question two first. It asked whether H modified, repaired or 
labelled any goods. H said answered no. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that H clearly does modify goods, even if it is done within whats permitted by the manufacturer. 
As H had said it didnt, but it actually did, it failed to fairly present the risk to Allied. 
Question one asked whether H knowingly supplied safety critical products to the motor 
industry. Again, H said no. There has been lots of argument about whether H does provide 
products to the motor industry, and what Allied ought to have been reasonably aware of. I 
am not persuaded by Hs arguments, but in any event, I dont need to make a finding on this 
as I consider it to be clear that there was a breach on question two, and from what I have 
seen, I am satisfied that Allied wouldnt have offered the policy based on the breach. I 
therefore dont think its necessary for me to go further and consider any issues around 
question one as it wont change the outcome.  
The Insurance Act says where there has been a breach and the insurer wouldnt have 
provided a policy, the insurer is entitled to avoid it. Allied hasnt treated the breach as 
deliberate or reckless and therefore Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Allied to avoid 
the policy, refuse any claims and return the premiums for 2020 and 2021. This remedy puts 
H back in the position it would have been in had the duty of fair presentation not been 
breached. This is in line with the actions prescribed in the Insurance Act and I see no reason 
to depart from this approach.
Having considered everything very carefully, I think Allied acted fairly and reasonably in 
avoiding the policy and declining Hs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman