DRN-3830585
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money she says was stolen 
from her.
What happened
Mrs R is complaining about two separate sets of transactions. The first are debit card 
payments which she says werent made by her. The second set of payments were bank 
transfers made by Mrs R after falling victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
The debit card payments
Mrs R is disputing transactions made on her current account using her debit card, these 
transactions were made between 27 July 2021 and 9 August 2021.
Mrs R says she was out shopping when she realised that she didnt have her phone. Mrs R 
got her phone back, as it had been handed into the lost and found at a store shed been in. 
But she says it was about two or three hours before she realised the phone was missing. 
Mrs R says her phone was in a cover with slots for bank cards and she had several cards in 
with the phone, including her HSBC credit card and debit card. None of the cards were 
handed in with the phone and Mrs R says transactions were made on all of the cards. 
Mrs R raised a fraud claim with HSBC and they refunded the transactions made on her 
credit card in full, however they declined to refund the transactions made on her debit card.
The payments made as part of the investment scam
During this time Mrs R fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. Mrs R says she was 
promised a return of 300% and saw it as an opportunity to make some extra money to 
support her family. As a result of the scam Mrs R made three payments on 13 August 2021.
The payments were for £500, £1,300 and £300. They were all made to a cryptocurrency 
exchange which Ill refer to as F. Mrs R says that as part of the investment, she was told she 
needed to buy bitcoins, so she opened an account with F. The account opening process with 
F required Mrs R to provide a copy of her driving licence and a selfie photo. F say the selfie 
photo included facial recognition. All three of the payments from her HSBC account went to 
this account in Mrs Rs name before she transferred the funds out to a separate account set 
up by the scammer, which Mrs R believed was in her name as well. 
Mrs R became aware she was the victim of a scam, after she was asked to make multiple 
payments for fees or costs in order to release the profit shed supposedly made with her 
investment. Mrs R says she confronted the scammer who blocked her and stopped 
communication.
Mrs R reported the scam to HSBC and asked them to refund her. HSBC agreed to refund 
50% of the payments for £1,300 and £300  paying £800 into Mrs Rs account. However, 
they declined to refund anything further, saying Mrs R shouldve done checks before making 
the payments.
Mrs R wasnt happy with HSBCs response about either set of transactions, so she brought a 
complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator thought it 
was most likely that Mrs R had authorised the debit card payments because:
Some of the transactions took place prior to the date Mrs R said she lost her cards.
While Mrs R said shed reported the cards missing as soon as she realised, some of 
the transactions were made six days later. 
Evidence from HSBC showed that Mrs R had logged into her online banking in 
between the disputed transactions, but Mrs R didnt report the transactions at those 
times.
The investigator also didnt recommend that Halifax refund Mrs R in relation to the scam 
payments saying:
The CRM Code doesnt apply to the payments as Mrs R initially transferred the 
money from her account with HSBC to a cryptocurrency account held in her name.
The transactions werent so unusual or out of character that the investigator wouldve 
expected HSBC to have had concerns or intervened.
However, the investigator thought HSBC had provided a poor level of service to Mrs R and 
recommended they pay her £150 in compensation.
HSBC agreed with the investigators recommendation. However, Mrs R didnt agree with the 
investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The card payments made on Mrs Rs account
Generally, HSBC can hold Mrs R liable for the disputed card transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. 
Based on what Mrs R has told us, I think its more likely than not she authorised the card 
payments shes disputing. I say this because the testimony shes given about losing her card 
doesnt line up with the transactions shes disputing and when they were made.Mrs R says she lost her phone when she was out shopping and noticed it within two or three 
hours of it happening. She says that her cards were in the cover that held her phone. When 
Mrs R returned to the store, her phone had been handed in, but her cards hadnt. She says 
she didnt initially notice her cards were missing, however when she did, she notified HSBC 
and they blocked her card.
But the disputed transactions were made over a two week period. Its not clear how a 
fraudster was able to use her card for this period of time if Mrs R had reported her cards 
missing as soon as she realised they werent in the cover of her phone.
Also, I can see that in between the transactions that Mrs R is disputing, there are genuine 
transactions that she hasnt disputed  also done with her debit card. These include a 
payment to a credit card provider, a supermarket and an ATM withdrawal. I cant see how 
both a fraudster and Mrs R could both use the card at the same time. And, if Mrs R had 
cancelled her debit card and got a replacement, the fraudster wouldnt have been able to 
use her old card.
HSBC have also provided mobile banking log-in evidence which shows that Mrs R logged 
into her accounts in between the disputed transactions. Based on the size of these 
transactions and the impact they had on Mrs Rs balance, I think its unlikely that Mrs R 
wouldve logged in and not noticed either the transactions out of her account or the impact 
on her account balance. And in noticing them, I wouldve expected Mrs R to immediately 
contact HSBC and cancel her card if she hadnt already done so.
I also have to take into account that the transactions were carried out over a period of two 
weeks and didnt drain Mrs R account of all available funds. If someone had found Mrs Rs 
card and used it without her knowledge, Id expect them to use the card to drain the balance 
as quickly as possible  as they wouldnt know when the card may be reported lost and 
stopped by the bank.  
From what Ive seen I think its more likely than not that Mrs R either made the transactions 
herself or authorised someone else to make the transactions. On that basis, I cant fairly ask 
HSBC to refund her.
The payments Mrs R made after falling victim to a scam
Ive considered whether Mrs R is entitled to a refund for the faster payments she made 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). These were the three 
online payments she made for £500, £1,300 and £300.
The starting principle under the CRM Code is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is 
the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. But the Code is quite clear that it 
doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only covers APP scam payments when 
the funds are being transferred to another person and not to a consumers own account. In 
this case, Mrs R made the payments from her HSBC account to a cryptocurrency account 
held in her name, before moving the funds onto the fraudster. This means I cant fairly hold 
HSBC responsible for reimbursing Mrs R under the CRM Code. 
But HSBC also has to be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
Having reviewed Mrs Rs account use and the activity on her account prior to the scam, Im 
not satisfied that the three payments she made shouldve been identified by HSBC as 
potentially concerning. I say this because Mrs R had made faster payments for a similar or 
higher value previously. Also, making multiple payments on one day, wasnt an unusual pattern for her account. Overall, Im not satisfied that these payments were particularly 
unusual or out of character whereby I think HSBC shouldve been concerned or intervened. 
So, I cant fairly hold HSBC liable or ask them to refund Mrs R.
I know HSBC have already refunded Mrs R 50% of two of the payments, with £800 paid to 
her account  this is more than I wouldve recommended.
The customer service Mrs R received from HSBC
Having listened to the calls Mrs R had with HSBC, I agree with the investigator that HSBC 
shouldve provided a better level of service. 
In one of the calls, the HSBC staff member is brisk and unempathetic with Mrs R when she 
is clearly upset and in tears when reporting the investment scam. Also, Ive seen the letters 
Mrs R was sent, which say she needs to contact HSBC and that they havent heard from 
her. However, its clear that Mrs R had called into HSBC. She was often transferred to 
different departments and some calls were disconnected. So, it appears that her calls may 
not have been logged with the appropriate departments dealing with her fraud claim. 
Im conscious that this was already a difficult time as Mrs R had lost a substantial amount of 
money to an investment scam. Based on that, I agree with the investigators 
recommendation that HSBC should pay Mrs R £150 in compensation for the poor level of 
service she received.
I realise that Mrs R is going to be very upset that Im not recommending HSBC refund her for 
the debit card payments or for the balance of the investment scam payments. But Id like to 
reassure Mrs R that I have no doubts that she was the victim of an investment scam. 
Unfortunately, being a victim of a scam doesnt automatically mean that HSBC is liable to 
refund her. 
Putting things right
To put things right HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs R £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and require them 
to compensate Mrs R, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman