DRN-2415263
The complaint
Mr K complains Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd didnt send him a reminder when his 
motor insurance policy was up for renewal, and this resulted in him driving without 
insurance.
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Right Choice has sent us screenshots from their systems showing a renewal quote 
was generated for Mr K one month before his policy was due to end. The system 
notes match those for Mr Ks renewal for the previous year. As Mr K received his 
renewal in 2019, I consider its more likely than not, the most recent screenshot show 
Right Choice sent Mr K a renewal quote in February 2020.
The renewal quote would have been sent to Mr K by email. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Right Choice used a different email address to the one they used in previous 
years  and that email address matches the one we have on file for Mr K. Im not 
sure why Mr K didnt receive his February 2020 email, but Ive not seen enough 
evidence to persuade me Right Choice is at fault for the email not reaching him.
I also cant ignore the fact Mr K called Right Choice in January 2020 to change the 
car insured under his policy. During that call, Mr K asked when his policy was due to 
end, and he was told the correct date. Given that was only two months before Mr Ks 
policy was due to end, Im satisfied he had a reminder shortly before his policy was 
up for renewal. Ive had to take this into account as Mr K was also responsible for 
ensuring his car was always correctly insured. So, when he didnt receive a renewal 
quote as expected, Mr K could have contacted Right Choice about this, or arranged 
cover elsewhere before his policy ended.
Mr Ks motor insurance policy wasnt auto-renewable. So, I dont think Right Choice 
did anything wrong by not putting a new policy in place when the period of cover 
ended in March 2020. And because of this, I dont consider Right Choice are 
responsible for covering the costs incurred following Mr Ks May 2020 car accident.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ks frustrations, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint about Right Choice 
Insurance Brokers Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman