DRN-1550601
 
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APSL) did not 
provide assistance with accessing its account online.
What happened
C contacted APSL when it was unable to log on to its online account on 6 September 2019 - 
and it was not able to using the mobile app successfully either. The director needed to make 
a tax payment. And he had to use other means. APSL paid £5 compensation on 12 
September 2019 for the systems issues. But these had continued and C had to spend time 
on contacting APSL about this. APSL offered £30 as a gesture of goodwill for the problems. 
C complains that it continued to have difficulties with accessing the system in October 2019 
and could not download statements for its accountant.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and C be paid a further £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. C was still able to make the tax payment. But 
he had seen evidence of the further problems when the app was still freezing. And that C 
had said that no one at APSL was answering calls or emails and assisting. He did not think 
that the compensation offered was reasonable given the poor customer service and lack of 
response about the issues for C with accessing its account.
The director of C said that he was still having problems after our investigator issued his view 
on 21 November 2019. Our investigator said the director would need to raise those with 
APSL first and we could only look at the issues C had already raised. APSL did not respond 
to the view so the case was passed for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
APSL said in its final response that new rules meant that an additional layer of security was 
required to be added to its systems to help protect customers from fraud. There was some 
disruption to service for C. And APSL accepts that due to a high volume of calls the director 
may have been unable to get through and had to wait for assistance. It said that C was able 
to log on through the online and mobile application on 13 September 2019. Its case notes 
indicate that the issue that the director had with downloading statements was resolved by 19 
October 2019. And this followed the final response about access.
I know the director has referred to further problems since the investigators opinion. But I 
agree they would need to be raised first with APSL as part of a new complaint.
There were clearly issues for C in accessing its account in September and October 2019 
which happened at a time when APSL had made changes to its systems. And APSL was 
having difficulties dealing with things in a timely way given the volume of queries. C continued to have problems and I think that the service it received in helping to resolve these 
was poor. Having said that, C was able to make an important payment and which it would 
have had advance notice of. I agree with our investigator that the compensation for the 
inconvenience caused offered by APSL was not sufficient. I consider that the recommended 
payment of £130 is appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
to pay C £130.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman