DRN-1610924
The complaint
Miss W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua sold her account to a third party and 
registered a default with credit reference agencies after shed made an arrangement with it.
What happened
Miss W had a credit card account with Aqua. She says she had health issues and 
experienced financial difficulties in 2019. She told Aqua shed contacted Citizens Advice. 
Citizens Advice wrote to Aqua on her behalf and provided evidence of her health and 
personal circumstances.
Aqua sent Citizens Advice a response dated 13 May 2019. It confirmed it had set up a 
repayment plan for Miss W. The letter set out the monthly payments she was required to 
make and advised that, under the repayment plan, the interest rate would be reduced to 0%. 
Aqua also said Miss Ws account would be reviewed in 12 months time provided the 
payments were maintained.
Miss W started to make the payments as required under the repayment plan. She says she 
was surprised to find out in July 2019 that Aqua had sold the debt to a third party. Aqua also 
wrote to her at this time and told her it was registering a default with credit reference 
agencies. So, Miss W complained to Aqua.
Aqua investigated her complaint. It said itd reviewed its letter dated 13 May and agreed that 
this might have led Miss W to believe that it wouldnt sell her debt to a third party. It 
apologised for this and offered to pay her £75 by way of compensation. But it said, despite 
the arrangement, arrears continued to accrue in the background. It said that was the reason 
why it had registered the default and sold the debt. In these circumstances, it said shed 
need to approach the party which had purchased the debt in order to re-set the 
arrangement.
Miss W didnt agree and so she referred the matter to our service. Our investigator looked 
into her complaint. He said that after Aqua had become aware of her circumstances and had 
agreed the repayment plan it shouldnt have sold the debt. He referred to the Standards of 
Lending Practice which stated that if a borrower had ongoing health issues, as was the case 
here, it shouldnt sell the debt. So, he thought Aqua should bring the account back under its 
own administration.
He also thought that after it had agreed a repayment plan with Miss W, which she had kept 
to, Aqua shouldnt have entered a default with credit reference agencies. He referred to the 
Principles for Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference 
Agencies  published by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). These principles 
stated that where a temporary reduction in payments had been jointly agreed between a 
borrower and a lender then although arrears may continue to accrue, a default shouldnt be 
recorded. So, he said the default should be removed.
Because of the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss W as a result of what happened 
he also thought Aqua should pay her more than the £75 itd offered. He said it should pay 
her £150.
Aqua didnt agree. It said it was prepared to bring the account back under its administration 
and pay the increased compensation. But it wasnt prepared to remove the default which it 
said was accurate. It also said that removing the default wouldnt help Miss W since it would 
have to default her account after the repayment plan ended unless she was able to clear the 
arrears at that time.
Because Aqua didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss W provided information to Aqua about her personal and financial 
circumstances. She spoke to Aqua on 2 April 2019 and told it Citizens Advice would be 
contacting it on her behalf. 
Just before she contacted it, Aqua had sent her a default notice dated 23 March 2019. Ive 
carefully considered the terms of the default notice. It says that if she cant pay the amount 
requested, she should contact Aqua or get help from organisations such as Citizens Advice. 
Attached to the notice is an information sheet which tells her not to ignore the situation. It 
says there are things she can do and people who can help her. So, Miss W did the right 
thing. She contacted Citizens Advice and the repayment plan was agreed.
In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that a default shouldnt have been 
entered. That is also in line with the ICOs Principles for Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements 
and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. Aqua had agreed to a temporary reduction in 
the monthly payments. The Principles say that in these circumstances, although arrears 
couldve continued to accrue, a default shouldnt be recorded. So, the default should be 
removed.
Ive thought about what Aqua has said concerning the position after the default is removed. It 
says a default would have to be registered again since the arrears would have continued to 
accrue. But if, at the review date, a balance was still outstanding I wouldve expected Aqua 
to try to agree an affordable repayment plan to clear the arrears within a reasonable period 
of time.  
Miss W has advised us that her circumstances have changed. She has recently been able to 
clear the balance on the account. So, given that the account has been settled in full, the 
issue of registering a default, after the account comes back to Aqua, no longer arises.
I agree with our investigator that, given the circumstances in this case, the account shouldnt 
have been sold to a third party. It should be brought back under Aquas administration. Aqua 
has agreed to do that. And, it says when this happens the party which purchased the debt 
will remove all its entries at credit reference agencies. I will require Aqua to take all 
reasonable steps to ensure that the default is removed. 
I also agree with our investigator that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience which Miss W has experienced as a result of whats happened.Putting things right
Having considered everything here I think Aqua should take the following action to put things 
right:
Bring this account back, to its own administration, from the third party-purchaser;
Remove the default which has been registered at credit reference agencies. If the 
default was registered by the third-party purchaser, Aqua should take all reasonable  
steps to ensure that the default is removed by the third-party purchaser; and 
Pay Miss W £150 by way of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua and 
I require it to take the following actions:
Bring this account back, to its own administration, from the third-party purchaser; 
Remove the default which has been registered at credit reference agencies. If the 
default was registered by the third-party purchaser Aqua should take all reasonable  
steps to ensure that the default is removed by the third-party purchaser; and
Pay Miss W £150 by way of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman