DRN-3014764
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service hes received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
regarding a number of issues.
What happened
Mr K raised several complaints with Halifax about varying issues with which he was 
unhappy. The complaint points that are being addressed here are as follows:
1. Mr K is unhappy that a direct debit for his credit card was cancelled which caused a 
direct debit to go unpaid and Mr K to incur charges.
2. A transaction for an airline company wasnt refunded.
3. Mr Ks address wasnt updated, and correspondence was sent to Mr Ks old address.
4. Mr K took a call from a member of Halifax staff who didnt ask him any security 
questions before proceeding with the call.
5. Mr K attended his local branch but found that it was closed despite signs on the door 
saying that it was open.
Halifax looked at the various aspects of Mr Ks complaint. They noted that because the direct 
debit hadnt been used for over 13 months it had become dormant and that this was why the 
direct debit payment wasnt collected. Halifax also noted that during their investigation into 
Mr Ks complaint about the refund from the airline company, the airline company themselves 
had issued the refund to Mr K, so that nothing further needed to be done. 
Halifax also apologised to Mr K for not changing his address when asked and awarded him 
£100 compensation for this point. Halifax further apologised for their agent not asking Mr K 
security questions before proceeding with a telephone call and for the confusion that Mr K 
must have felt with regard his local branch being closed despite a sign in the door stating 
that it was open, and they awarded further compensation payments to Mr K of £80 and £100 
respectively for these points.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs responses, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the responses that Halifax 
had already issued to Mr K represented fair and reasonable resolutions to these complaint 
points. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that Ive arrived at the same outcome as our investigator here, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill address each of Mr Ks complaint points in sequence below.
Regarding the unpaid direct debit, Halifax have been able to demonstrate that Mr Ks credit 
account had a credit balance in Mr Ks favour from January 2019 onwards. This meant that 
no monthly repayments were required on the account. Furthermore, while this credit balance 
did slowly reduce over time, Mr Ks account remained in credit for over 13 months, meaning 
that no monthly repayments were due on the account for that time. 
When a direct debit is unused for 13 months the direct debit instruction becomes liable for 
cancellation under the direct debit dormancy rule. This is a rule deigned to protect 
consumers from direct debits remaining active on their account indefinitely. It also must be 
noted that the responsibility for maintaining required direct debits lies with the bank account 
holder. As such, I dont feel that I can say that Halifax did anything unfair or unreasonable by 
cancelling the direct debit in question in line with the direct debit dormancy rule, and I will not 
be upholding this aspect of Mr Ks complaint.
Regarding the airline company refund, its evident that Mr K raised this issue with Halifax 
and asked what options were available to him if the requested refund wasnt provided to him 
by the company. Halifax looked at this issue for Mr K, but before they issued their response 
to Mr K, the airline company did provide Mr K with the refund he sought.
While I can appreciate that Mr K might be dissatisfied with the length of time it took Halifax to 
respond, given that Mr K did receive the refund he was seeking from the airline company, I 
cant conclude that there has been any material loss incurred by Mr K and I dont feel that 
this matter warrants any form or apology or compensation from Halifax on the basis of the 
time it took for them to respond. 
Regarding Mr Ks address not being updated as he requested, Halifax have confirmed that 
theyve been unable to locate any record of Mr K requesting that his address be updated. 
However, Halifax acknowledged that Mr K might have provided a request that went 
unrecorded and unactioned, and so they issued a complaint response to Mr K where they 
apologised to Mr K and awarded him £100 by way of compensation for this matter. Halifaxs 
response here feels fair to me, and Im satisfied that their apology and award of 
compensation to Mr K does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this aspect of Mr 
Ks complaint, including in consideration that letters might have been sent to Mr Ks old 
address, and so I wont be instructing Halifax to take any further action regarding this point.
With regard Halifaxs advisor not asked Mr K security questions before proceeding with a 
telephone call, Halifax have acknowledged that this shouldnt have taken place and 
apologised to Mr K and awarded him £80 compensation for this matter. Again, I feel that 
Halifaxs response to this aspect of Mr Ks complaint is fair and reasonable, and as such Im 
satisfied that no further action needs to be taken by Halifax in relation to this point.
Finally, with regard Mr Ks local branch being closed despite a sign in the door saying 
otherwise, Halifax acknowledged how this might be confusing for Mr K and issued a further 
apology and a further award of £100 compensation to Mr K for this matter. Once again, I feel 
that Halifaxs response to this aspect of Mr Ks complaint is fair and reasonable and as such 
I wont be instructing Halifax to take any further action at this time. 
Im aware that Mr K feels that a larger award of compensation is warranted for this final point 
as he visited the branch on numerous occasions and each time the branch was closed when 
the sign in the door said it was open. However, Im satisfied that the award of compensation 
that Halifax have already paid is a fair award for Mr Ks cumulative branch visits here. 
Furthermore, after Mr K discovered the branch was closed for the second or third time, I feel 
that it would have been incumbent on Mr K to have made enquiries with Halifax as to the 
status of the branch before making further visits.All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Halifax have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how theyve responded to Mr Ks complaints, and Im satisfied that the 
complaint responses that Halifax have issued, including the payments of compensation to Mr 
K, do represent fair and reasonable resolutions to those complaints.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding any aspect of this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action at 
this time. I trust that Mr K will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman