DRN-2716743
The complaint
Mr G complains that Link Financial Investments Limited wrongly applied a Unit Price 
Adjustment (UPA) when it encashed his PruFund investment (prior to transferring the funds 
to a new provider). This cost him a loss of nearly £18,000.
What happened
Mr Rs new provider (QC) emailed Link an authorised copy of instructions to disinvest and 
transfer the funds on Monday 16 March 2020 at 16:06. It also posted the original copy the 
same day.
On Tuesday afternoon 17 March 2020 Mr R spoke to Link and an advisor confirmed the 
request had been received at 10:10. He was told the process had started and was reassured 
(on several occasions) that the value of £150,674.79 would be honoured.
On Wednesday 18 March 2020, he found out from the Pru that the value had dropped to 
£132.676.28.
Link, in essence, rejected Mr Rs complaint, saying it had correctly applied the UPA, but 
offered him £100 for the misleading information. It said:
The Pru announced the UPA by email to Financial Advisors on 17 March 2020 at 
15:43. This email noted that the UPA had been applied to the PruFund Growth Fund 
on 17 March 2020 (it provided a copy of this email)
The PruFund Growth Fund is a forward-pricing fund and all instructions received after 
the previous days noon valuation point will receive the price at the next valuation 
point
The UPA was reflected in the fund price that was provided to it by the Pru on 17 
March 2020 and therefore affected all deals being placed at the noon valuation point 
on that day
How the UPA is applied is detailed in the Insurance Agreement document, which is 
part of the terms of investing in the PruFund range of Funds (the specific wording 
can be found in Section 10)
The price at 16:00 on 17 March 2020 (after the noon valuation point) was 238.0 
giving a value of £132,320.56, as the price on 17 March 2020 had been affected by 
the negative UPA
Mr Rs withdrawal was actually processed at the valuation point on 19 March 2020 
and the actual value of the sale was £132,676.28 as the unit price had increased 
slightly to 238.1
An investigator at this service agreed that Link was required to apply the UPA and felt its 
offer of £100 for providing unclear or misleading information was fair and reasonable.
In his assessment, he said:
The UPA was applied to the Pru Growth Fund on the Tuesday but Link was only 
notified about this on the Wednesday. Therefore, when Mr R spoke to them on 
Tuesday, the advisor wasnt aware the UPA had been applied to the fund
When Mr R asked the Link advisors to confirm what the value of his units were on 
that Tuesday, they didnt mention that their valuation of nearly £150,000 would have 
been correct at the close of business the day before. This is because this fund is a 
forward-pricing fund, which values every day at noon the following day
If theyd done so, Mr R would have been aware that to find out the value of his 
investment on the Tuesday (when his instruction to encash was being processed), 
hed need to wait until Wednesday
The UPA was applied on the Tuesday with a resultant lower price of £132,500  but 
this was not confirmed until the Wednesday
Mr Rs email copy of the transfer instructions was received at 16:06 on Monday but 
Link wasnt able to process this form because it required an original request with a 
wet signature
Even if it had been able to process this, as it was received after the noon valuation 
point and as the fund is a forward-pricing one, this instruction would have been 
processed at the valuation on the following working day - when the UPA had been 
applied (as the relevant section of the terms and conditions confirm)
Shares in the OEIC fund will be sold at the price calculated at the next valuation 
point following the relevant cut-off point
Links advisors quoted the valuations from the previous days close because they 
couldnt give the current or the next days price as it hadnt been calculated yet
Mr R did not agree, and said:
He had spoken to the Pru and it said that the UPA should not have been applied till 
the 18th
The Pru announced the UPA on the afternoon of the 17th, the value of £150,674.79 
was confirmed by it on that date
In his opinion the Pru implemented the UPA late on in the afternoon of the 17th and 
the price was not reflected until the 18th
The investigator replied, saying:
He had now spoken to the Pru and it confirmed that any orders made on the 17th 
(whatever time they were received) would have had an UPA applied to them. It was 
not correct to say that the UPA only applied after 5pm, as Mr R alleged
All the documentation demonstrates that Mr Rs instruction needed to have the UPA 
applied
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and mostly for the same reasons. As such, I am 
afraid there is little I can add to his detailed explanation as to why Mr Rs fund correctly had 
the UPA applied to it when encashed  and so will not repeat his arguments, which I agree 
with.
The documentation, in my view, shows that the Pru applied the UPA on the 17th and that this 
affected the value of investors funds as of that date. The UPA applied to Mr Rs funds and 
the forward-pricing resulted in the reduced value he received.Crucially, Link did not receive Mr Rs written instructions until the 17t.h.  Although these 
arrived in its mail system before noon, I dont accept it was contractually required to execute 
the sale of his funds instantly i.e. before noon. It began to process his application in the 
afternoon and therefore it was inevitable that the sale price would be calculated as of noon 
on the 18th (at the earliest) given the forward-pricing nature of the fund. This would therefore 
be subject to the UPA.   
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman