DRN-2799219
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided him on multiple 
occasions. Hes also unhappy with the way it handled his complaint about this issue.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr C made multiple phone calls to HSBC to request a form to transfer his Help 
to Buy ISA from another provider. Subsequently, he made a complaint about the agents he 
spoke with. He said they didnt have the required level of knowledge, and he was most 
unhappy about their attitude as one of them shouted at him. 
A supervisor provided Mr C with correct information about the form and the transfer process. 
He agreed to escalate Mr Cs concerns about the agents attitude and offered £30 in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused due to incorrect information. But Mr C didnt accept 
this and asked for £150. 
Mr C then made a complaint about the complaint handler. He said he rang HSBC and asked 
to speak to the complaint handler, but he refused to take the call and intentionally left Mr C 
on hold for over an hour. 
HSBCs complaint handler apologised Mr C was left on hold for a long time and said the call 
hadnt connected to him. In response to Mr Cs initial complaint, he acknowledged one of the 
agents didnt understand Mr Cs query and wasnt trained in that area; feedback had been 
provided to her manager. But he didnt think any of the agents shouted at Mr C or were rude, 
instead Mr C talked over one of them. The complaint handler declined Mr Cs request for 
£150 and credited his account with £30 that had been previously offered.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns and thought things didnt go particularly well 
during the first call  he thought the agent was unprofessional and made sarcastic remarks. 
He thought the second call handler was well-mannered for the most part but did made some 
unprofessional comments.  But he didnt agree with what Mr C had said about the third 
agent; he thought she was attentive, apologetic and professional, and didnt raise her voice 
at any point. He thought she sounded flustered because of how Mr C had spoken to her. 
Our investigator agreed with Mr C he was on hold for a long time when waiting to speak to 
the complaint handler. But he accepted HSBCs explanation there was a decline in customer 
service levels due to the pandemic, and it was likely Mr C was transferred to the wrong 
department where he was left on hold. The investigator thought HSBCs apology regarding 
this matter was appropriate, and he didnt think the complaint handler deliberately ignored 
Mr Cs call. Overall, he thought £30 compensation which HSBC had already paid was fair in 
this instance.
Mr C didnt fully agree with the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary, he considered the only explanation, based on the 
balance of probabilities, was the complaint handler intentionally left him on hold. And he said 
he was shouted at by one of the agents. 
I issued my provisional decision on 5 May 2021. I said I intended to uphold it because I didnt 
think the compensation HSBC had already paid Mr C went far enough. Mr C accepted my 
findings and HSBC said it didnt have any further information to add.
As neither party has provided any further arguments for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, what follows is my provisional decision made final.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr C and HSBC that although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above, so not everything that happened is detailed, Ive read 
and considered everything Ive been provided in its entirety.
Ive listened to the calls Mr C made to HSBC on 15, 16 and 26 June 2020. I think its 
important to note that by the time he called on 15 June (the first call Ive been able to listen 
to), Mr C had already called HSBC twice on 12 June. This is evidenced by the call records 
hes provided, as well as what he said when he made a complaint on 16 June. So, the calls 
on 15 June were a continuation of Mr Cs frustrations from before. Put simply, he wanted a 
transfer form to be sent to him by post since he didnt have access to a printer at the time. 
But his request, in his eyes, was proving to be difficult for HSBC to fulfil. 
The calls on 15 June didnt go well. I agree with our investigator the first agent made 
sarcastic remarks. While HSBCs explanation regarding the agents lack of knowledge goes 
some way in explaining why she was unable to help Mr C with his request, it doesnt address 
her attitude. Mr C asked to speak to a manager, but the agent ended the call. I dont 
consider Mr C was discourteous to the agent at any point, so I find he received poor 
customer service.
The second agent tried to help Mr C, but it didnt help matters that he didnt have the 
relevant information to hand. And while I dont consider that unreasonable  after all banks 
offer several products and services and processes change over time  I think it would have 
been helpful if the agent had provided more context to what information he was searching 
for, for example checking whether a form was indeed required for the transfer and where it 
could be found. I think the agent was abrupt at times and told Mr C hed send out a form, 
only to later email and say this wasnt possible. I think its understandable why Mr C was 
annoyed when he rang the next day to complain.
On 16 June, Mr C made a complaint as soon as an agent answered his call. Having listened 
to it, its clear Mr C became even more frustrated when she asked to clarify something hed 
said. But I think the agent got a bit flustered by Mr Cs response and his choice of words. 
While I appreciate emotions were running high, I dont consider Mr Cs continual line of 
questioning improved matters. And I dont think his comments about her command of 
English were warranted, especially as I dont agree with them. 
During the call, Mr C alluded to the agent shouting at him. He complained about it to the 
supervisor to whom the call was subsequently transferred to. I know Mr C feels very strongly 
that this happened, but I dont agree the agent shouted at him. She didnt raise her voice at 
any point during the call and remained polite and professional throughout despite feeling 
flustered. In my opinion, she tried her best to bring the conversation back on track before 
transferring the call to a supervisor who provided the relevant information and logged Mr Cs 
complaint. I understand Mr C has questioned whether this specific agent was indeed the one he recalls 
shouting at him, and whether HSBC has forwarded the full recording of the call to us. Given 
Mr C mentioned shouting during his conversation with this agent and referred to it when the 
call was transferred to a supervisor, Im satisfied it is this agent he considered to have 
shouted at him. As for the call recording, I havent seen or heard anything to suggest it was 
edited. The different parts of the call  Mr C and the agent, the agent and the supervisor, 
and Mr C and the supervisor  added together appear to be of the same length of time Mr C 
was on the phone for.
When Mr C called on 26 June and asked about the form, although the agent said she didnt 
work in the relevant team and initially gave the wrong information, she did check with the 
relevant colleague before answering his query. Unfortunately, the information she provided 
wasnt fully accurate. She told Mr C he could do everything online  completing as well as 
submitting the form. But this isnt what Mr C had been told by the supervisor who said the 
form needed to be downloaded, printed and completed before being taken to a branch. 
So, its not in the least surprising Mr C wasnt pleased when he received HSBCs final 
response later that day telling him just what the supervisor had said  and contradicting what 
hed been told by the agent just hours earlier.
I also think the agent could have managed Mr Cs expectations much better when she 
transferred his call to the complaints team. Mr C asked to be transferred to the complaint 
handler. I think it would have been helpful if shed mentioned she had dialled the general 
number for the complaints team and not the complaint handlers extension. When she came 
back to him after placing him on hold for several minutes, it would have also been helpful if 
the agent had explained she hadnt managed to speak to anyone but was going to transfer 
the call anyway. And that it could be a while before his call was answered. Instead, she 
advised Mr C she was putting him through now. Given Mr C had been on hold for over 12 
minutes to be transferred on a previous occasion, I can understand why he thought he might 
need to wait a while on this occasion as well. So, there were some errors in this call too.
On the matter relating to the complaint handler, I know Mr C feels he was intentionally 
ignored. But from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded thats what happened here. Having 
listened to his call with the agent, its clear to me she didnt ring the complaint handler 
directly. It seems to me she rang a customer helpline number as she was greeted by an 
automated telephone service (IVR) message asking her to choose from several options. 
Whether this line was for the complaints team specifically or a general enquiries number, I 
cant say for certain. But having weighed up everything, I think its unlikely the complaint 
handler investigating Mr Cs complaint knew Mr C had called in to speak to him. It follows 
that I dont think he intentionally ignored or refused to take Mr Cs call. I think its more likely 
than not an IVR system error meant Mr Cs call wasnt connected to an agent at all while he 
was waiting, or that he was in a queue where waiting times were quite long. 
Overall, having considered Mr Cs concerns alongside the timeline of events, while I dont 
think the third agent shouted or acted inappropriately, Im satisfied Mr C was put to some 
inconvenience up to that point. Hed made four calls but not made any progress with his 
request. Once the complaint was raised, while I dont consider the complaint handler acted 
inappropriately, I do think the fourth agent caused further confusion. I also think the time Mr 
C waited on hold to speak to the complaint handler, coupled with his expectations not being 
managed and the timing of HSBCs response to his complaint caused him further distress.
Im pleased to see HSBC has provided feedback to managers of some of the agents 
involved. But Im not persuaded the feedback and £30 is reflective of the overall distress and 
inconvenience Mr C was caused. The way he was spoken to by some of the agents did 
upset him. And he was put to the trouble of having to call several times about his request. Even after complaining, there was further confusion. And his expectations werent managed 
appropriately at times which led to further frustrations. 
At the same time, as I havent found Mr C was shouted at or had his call intentionally 
ignored, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell HSBC to compensate him for this. So, having 
carefully thought about the overall circumstances surrounding this complaint, I consider an 
additional £70  making it a total of £100  to be fair compensation.
Putting things right
HSBC has already paid Mr C £30 for the inconvenience caused due to incorrect information 
he was given initially. I dont think this goes far enough. 
I require HSBC to pay Mr C a total of £100, inclusive of the £30 already paid, to compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman