DRN-3071651
The complaint
Mr W complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about the Enterprise Investments Scheme (EIS) he invested in.
What happened
Mr W invested £150,000 into an Octopus Enterprise Investment Scheme (OEIS 20) in 
November 2015, following advice from his financial adviser. The EIS was focused on 
investing in energy companies, particularly reserve power and solar related projects. 
By 2020 the value of his investment had declined substantially, and Mr W complained to 
Octopus. Mr Ws complaint is that:
A critical factor in his decision to invest was that Octopus stated repeatedly in their 
marketing material and more forcibly in discussions that the EIS would focus on capital 
preservation. That message substantially undermined the risk warnings in the literature 
and was designed to encourage people to invest irrespective of the risks of an EIS. 
Some weeks prior to the investment deadline for the scheme, the Government 
announced that from 30 November 2015 companies providing reserve power facilities 
would no longer qualify for EIS tax relief. Octopus brought forward the closing date for 
the scheme so that it pre-dated the status change. As a result, Mr W felt pressured to 
invest before the deadline and not miss out. 
Octopus should instead have paused to consider and explain to potential investors the 
implications of the Governments announcement. Had they done so, Octopus would 
have concluded there were new risks to investing in reserve power and that marketing 
the EIS as capital preservation was no longer sustainable. Octopus sought to protect 
their own interests rather than the interests of potential investors. 
Octopus have said, in summary: 
The EIS was focused on companies with more predictable costs and more consistent 
revenue streams who would target capital preservation rather than strong capital growth. 
Capital preservation was the targeted objective, but it was not guaranteed and, as an 
EIS, Mr Ws investment still carried a high risk to his capital. The risks were clearly set 
out in the EIS brochure and other documents.
They brought forward the closing date because of the changes in EIS qualification 
announced by the Government. But they did not in any way suggest or imply that anyone 
should invest in a high-risk EIS without carefully considering the risks.
The changes announced by the Government didnt mean the investment proposition was 
inappropriate. The removal of EIS tax relief for reserve power sites was not a reflection 
on the anticipated future performance of the sector. It showed the Government 
considered the sector to be sufficiently established and supported by more mainstream 
financing to no longer warrant the support offered by the very significant tax reliefs for 
EIS investments.
Our investigator thought the information provided to Mr W had been clear, fair, and not 
misleading and she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied there was 
a distinction between the investment strategy, which was capital preservation, and the high-
risk nature of EIS investments which Octopus highlighted to Mr W. 
Our investigator thought Octopus explained clearly why the closure date had been brought 
forward and hadnt pressured Mr W. There was no evidence to suggest that Octopus could 
have been aware of further changes made by the Government after Mr W invested. And she 
thought Octopus had made clear that legislative change was one of the risks of investing in 
the EIS. 
Mr W disagrees with our investigators findings and has asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Octopus were not responsible for giving advice to Mr W about his investment. So, it wasnt 
for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EIS were suitable for him. 
Any complaint about the suitability of the recommendation would lie against the provider of 
that advice. 
Octopus were responsible for providing information to Mr W so that he could make an 
informed decision about whether to invest in the EIS. In this decision Ive therefore looked at 
whether the information Octopus provided to Mr W and his adviser was clear, fair, and not 
misleading. 
Capital preservation
The cover of the brochure described the EIS as an investment that targets capital 
preservation and multiple tax reliefs. In a short section explaining how capital preservation 
worked (page 6), it said:
Capital preservation is a strategy designed for investors who aim to preserve the 
value of their investment rather than achieve high returns. Above all else, the goal is 
to return the original amount (the capital) to investors when they wish to get their 
money back.
That section concluded with the following paragraph: 
Of course, with any investment, your capital is at risk and capital preservation is not 
something that can be guaranteed. We always remind investors that an EIS is still
a high-risk investment. For full details on risks, please see pages 24 and 25.
I think that section of the brochure made clear that while capital preservation was the goal, 
it was not guaranteed and the EIS was still a high risk investment. And Im satisfied that the 
rest of the brochure, and the other marketing material, both reflected that message and 
made clear the implications of the EIS being high risk. For example, the important 
information box on page 2 of the brochure said:The value of an investment in this product may go down as well as up, and you may 
not get back the full amount invested.
And the section of the brochure explaining the key risks included the following statements:
Your capital is at risk and the investment return is not guaranteed.
We can make no guarantee of investment performance or the level of growth that 
may be generated.
  
Mr W has said the capital preservation strategy was emphasised more strongly during 
discussions with Octopus and that undermined the risk warnings given in the brochure. 
Ive not seen any record of the meeting Mr W attended and I cant be sure what was said 
during those discussions. 
I think its likely that Octopus would have highlighted capital preservation as that was the aim 
of their investment strategy. But I dont think Ive got enough evidence to say that this would 
have undermined the risk warnings given in the brochure and other documents provided to 
Mr W and his adviser. And overall, I think Octopus made sufficiently clear that there was a 
distinction between the aim of capital preservation and the inherently high risk nature of the 
EIS investment.     
 
Government changes
In the brochure, Octopus said that an EIS scheme would generally close to new investment 
about 4-5 months after fundraising began. At the end of October 2015, however, Octopus 
emailed financial advisers to say they would be closing OEIS 20 for applications on 
19 November 2015. That was because the Government had announced that from 
30 November 2015 investments into reserve power companies would no longer qualify for 
EIS tax relief. 
Mr W has said that the changes in the EIS qualification rules should have caused Octopus to 
pause and consider whether there were now additional risks that should be brought to the 
attention of potential investors. He thinks Octopus should have foreseen that government 
revenue streams in the reserve power sector could no longer be relied upon. And they 
should have warned investors that capital preservation was no longer viable.  
   
I note that in the November 2015 email Octopus said that the change had come sooner than 
they expected as they believed the reserve power sector still needed the support provided 
by EIS qualification. But the email also included the following quote from the Governments 
statement: 
the government has decided to introduce an amendment to exclude activities that 
involve the provision of reserve power capacity and generation.As these activities 
are asset-backed and benefit from a guaranteed income stream, mainstream 
financing is typically already available which removes the need for tax-advantaged 
investment. 
Taking account of the explanation given in the email, and the information Octopus had 
already provided in the EIS brochure, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to continue 
to market the EIS up until the qualifying rules changed. 
Ive considered Mr Ws complaint that Octopus should have anticipated later regulatory 
changes which affected the reserve power sector. But Ive not seen enough evidence to say 
that such changes should reasonably have been foreseen at the time Mr W made his investment. Rather, I think they were the sort of significant change that had been identified 
as a key risk of the EIS. 
Under sector specific risks, the EIS brochure said that the revenue streams of energy 
installations might be dependent on legislation and energy prices in the countries in which 
they were built. And that changes in legislation and generating performance might affect the 
returns.
Overall, I think Mr W had sufficient information to make an informed decision about whether 
he wanted to invest. And the email with the new deadline was sent to advisers a few weeks 
before the closing date. So, I dont think I can fairly say that Octopus pressured him into 
deciding to invest.
I can understand why Mr W feels strongly about what has happened to his investment, but I 
dont think I can fairly hold Octopus responsible for his losses. I realise this will be a very 
disappointing decision for Mr W, but I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint 
against Octopus Investments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman