DRN-3494483
The complaint
Miss M and Miss T complain that Post Office Management Services Limited mis-sold a travel 
insurance policy to them.
References to Miss M and Miss T also include their representative.
What happened
Miss M and Miss T purchased a single trip travel insurance policy in July 2021, for a trip 
abroad they were due to take between 21 July 2021 and 28 July 2021. 
Theyve explained that when looking for insurance they purposely sought out a policy that 
would provide cover for incidents due to Coronavirus. They visited the Post Office website 
and noted this did provide cover of this nature. So, they purchased Premier cover through 
the post office to cover them for their trip.
Miss M and Miss T have explained that on 20 July 2021, they day before they were due to fly 
on holiday, Miss T received a call from the UK track and trace service. It noted that Miss T 
had been in close contact with someone who had tested positive for Coronavirus. And 
because of this, Miss T needed to self-isolate.
Because Miss T needed to self-isolate, Miss M and Miss T werent able to depart on their 
trip. So, they contacted their insurer to make a claim under the policy. At this point, Miss M 
and Miss T said they were told their policy didnt provide cover for their situation. The insurer 
told them the policy didnt cover cancellation of a trip, due to the need to self-isolate.
Miss M and Miss T were unhappy with this. They felt their insurance policy had been mis-
sold to them by the Post Office. So, they raised their concerns about the sale of the policy 
with it. 
The Post Office responded to these concerns and didnt think it had mis-sold the policy. It 
said the policy was purchased online and was a non-advised sale. It said the policy was 
advertised as covering some incidents linked to Coronavirus. But that it was also made clear 
on the website that there would be no cover in place for following general advice from the 
government to self-isolate, include any quarantine requirements upon re-entering the UK. 
The Post Office said Miss M and Miss T would have needed to tick a box confirming they 
had read the terms and conditions of the policy before purchasing it. So, Post Office was 
satisfied it had sold the policy fairly.
Miss M and Miss T remained dissatisfied. And so, they referred their complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
the policy cover was made clear at the time of sale. 
Miss M and Miss T didnt agree. They acknowledged that the website through which the 
policy was purchased provided warning about a lack of cover for follow general advice from 
the government in relation to self-isolation. But they said they were provided with specific, 
legally binding advice. In addition to this, they felt they were being encouraged to either 
break the law in order to claim under the policy. Miss M and Miss T remained of the opinion 
the policy was mis-sold to them. 
Because of this, Miss M and Miss Ts complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, Im not requiring Post Office 
to do anything more here. I do appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss M and 
Miss T. Its clear they feel strongly about the matter. But Id like to reassure them I have 
taken everything theyve said into account, as well as everything from Post Office. Though 
when detailing my decision below, Ive only referred to what I consider relevant to decide the 
complaint. 
Miss M and Miss T feel their policy was mis-sold to them. The policy was purchased through 
a non-advised sale. It was purchased online without the intervention of any Post Office staff. 
Because the sale was non-advised, the information provided at the point of sale needed to 
be clear, fair and not mis-leading. This being the case to enable Miss M and Miss T to make 
an informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. So, Ive considered whether 
this was the case here.
Having considered the sales process in this instance Im satisfied the information provided 
was clear, fair and not misleading. And so, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Miss M and Miss T have noted that the policy was sold as single trip travel insurance, with 
Coronavirus cover. And I having looked at screenshots of the website from the time, and 
reviewed the archived website myself, I can see the initial page for single trip travel 
insurance cover did say this. But Im also aware that just under this, in a yellow box, the 
below was noted:
What does travel insurance cover for Covid-19?
See what coronavirus cover comes with new and existing policies.
On clicking this link, a summary of cover is provided. It notes what is covered before and 
during the trip. And it also highlights there is no cover for a number of incidents, including 
noting there is no cover for following general advice from a government to self-isolate, 
including any quarantine requirements upon re-entering the UK.
Given the above, Im satisfied that before proceeding to complete a quote, the Post Office 
website provided clear, fair and not mis-leading information on what the policy covered. It 
highlighted that the need to self-isolate wasnt covered, so that Miss M and Miss T could 
make an informed choice as to whether this cover met their needs or not. Im aware Miss M 
and Miss T have provided this service with a copy of this information. So, its clear this was 
something they saw when purchasing the policy. 
Miss M and Miss T would then have needed to proceed to a quotation for the policy. Post 
Office has said that before purchase Miss M and Miss T would have had access to the full 
policy documents, and would have had to tick a box to confirm they had read and 
acknowledge the terms of it. This is commonly the case when purchasing insurance. And Ive seen this is the case on the Post Office website too. So, Im satisfied Miss M and Miss T 
were provided with the opportunity to double check the policy met their needs at this point 
too.
Miss M and Miss T would have been sent their policy document following this. And Ive seen 
a copy of them. At this point Miss M and Miss T would have also been able to check their 
documents  and had a 14-day cooling-off period to cancel their policy if they decided it 
wasnt suitable. Given this, I do think Miss M and Miss T were given enough clear, fair and 
not mis-leading information at the time of sale, and following this, in order to check the cover 
met their needs. 
Miss M and Miss T have said they do think the information given to them was mis-leading. 
Theyve said the website referred to general advice, around self-isolation, rather than 
specific information from the government meaning the need to self-isolate. I do understand 
their point here. But I dont think this wording was mis-leading or unclear  rather its wide 
enough to encompass self-isolation in its various forms. Im satisfied it doesnt give the 
impression that self-isolation is something the policy covers when mandated by the track and 
trace system. And the policy documents themselves provide further detail on the cover being 
provided. So, I dont think this point changes the outcome of this complaint.
I know Miss M and Miss T are concerned that the exclusion in the policy for self-isolation 
encourages the law to broken in order to claim. Its important to note this complaint is about 
the sale of the policy, and the party that sold it, rather than the insurer and whether the 
insurers decision to cover certain incidents is fair or not. But, thinking about the sale of the 
policy, I dont think there is information in the sales process to encourage breaking the law. 
Rather, insurance policies dont cover every eventuality, and the website provides 
information on that. 
Given the above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Miss M and Miss T.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Post Office Management Services Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman