DRN-2628847
The complaint
Mrs Es complaint is about the mortgage valuation completed when she took out her 
mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. She believed she had paid for 
a more in-depth survey (a homebuyers report) and wasnt told that only a basic valuation 
would be done for Clydesdales benefit. 
Mrs E believes Clydesdale should have explained the different options available in relation to 
the inspection of the property  valuation, homebuyers report and structural survey - and 
that it was negligent in not doing so. This failure by Clydesdale has meant that she 
proceeded to purchase the property based on what she considers is an inadequate valuation 
report. Mrs E believes even on a valuation report the known issue about the roofs on the 
development her house is in should have been identified and highlighted, and a roofing 
report required. Had that happened, or Mrs E had been correctly informed about the 
inspection options, she would have known about the roof problem and negotiated a price 
reduction to reflect the need for a new roof. In settlement of the complaint, Mrs E would like 
Clydesdale and/or the surveying firm to reimburse the cost of the new roof. 
Mrs E is represented in her complaint to this service by a third party. However, I will 
reference all comments as Mrs Es.
What happened
In 2016 Mrs E already had a mortgage with Clydesdale. She applied for a new mortgage to 
enable her to move to a new house, and took her existing interest rate product to the new 
mortgage. The application was accepted. Whilst the original mortgage Mrs E had may have 
had a free valuation included as part of the package, the new one she applied for didnt - a 
valuation fee was payable; the amount of which was dependent on the value of the property 
being bought. The valuation fee for Mrs Es new property was £430. The key facts illustration 
given to Mrs E before she applied for the mortgage detailed this cost as being for a standard 
valuation. This information was repeated in the mortgage offer sent to Mrs E when the 
mortgage application was accepted. 
Mrs E was provided with a copy of the valuation at the time it was done. Attached to the 
copy report was an Important Notice, which explained This is a copy of the valuation report 
which we have obtained to help us assess whether the property is a suitable security for 
your mortgage loan. We provide this purely so that you are aware of the report we will use 
as part of our lending decisions, it is not suitable for any other purpose and neither we nor 
the valuer intend that you will place any reliance upon it. We do not instruct a survey of any 
kind.
In 2020 Mrs E discovered she had a problem with her roof. She was told there was a known 
problem with the type of tiles used to roof the properties in the development she lives in. This 
meant that she needed to replace the roof. 
Mrs E complained to Clydesdale. She said when the mortgage had been being arranged, 
shed asked for a home buyers report to be done. She said at the time, the basic valuation 
had been a free part of the mortgage package and shed paid £430 for an upgrade to a 
homebuyers report. She had since discovered that Clydesdale had only commissioned a 
basic valuation. This had resulted in a known problem with the roof of the property not being 
identified before the purchase, when a price reduction could have been negotiated. As it was 
not, Mrs E believed the valuers used by Clydesdale were negligent and failed in their duty of 
care. She explained she was faced with having to find the funds to replace the roof, which 
she wanted Clydesdale to reimburse to her. 
Clydesdale responded to Mrs Es complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said the valuation fee 
she had paid had been for a standard valuation and not a homebuyers report or building 
survey. It said there was nothing in the documentation from the time of the sale indicating 
Mrs E had wanted anything other than a standard valuation. Clydesdale explained that a 
valuation was completed for lending purposes only  to ensure the property meets lending 
criteria and is suitable security for the mortgage. 
Mrs E wasnt happy with Clydesdales response. She said she paid for a valuation report so 
that she could determine if the property was suitable for her to purchase and the asking price 
was reasonable. At no point had she been informed that the report was only to be used for 
the banks purposes to determine if the property met its lending criterial. As such, she thinks 
the mortgage adviser didnt advise her correctly and didnt disclose full details about the 
valuation. She then asked for a copy of the fee listings as she believed shes paid for a 
homebuyers report. Mrs E also said that irrespective of what type of valuation was done and 
for whose purposes, the valuer had been negligent in not identifying the roof problem.
Mrs E provided a report from a local roofing contractor dated July 2020. It explained the 
property had been built in the 1960s and the type of concrete roof tile used was known to 
become porous after 25-30 years  evidenced by white staining on the underside of the tile. 
Due to this problem, the roof covering needed to be completely replaced. The roofer also 
confirmed that over the preceding four years, he was aware of 14 roofs in the local area that 
had needed to be replaced. 
Clydesdale responded to Mrs Es further comments. It explained that it is normal during 
mortgage applications that a valuation report is only produced for lending purposes. It said it 
couldnt comment on what was discussed during the mortgage appointment as it wasnt 
recorded, but the notes didnt mention an upgrade was wanted. If Mrs E had wanted a 
homebuyers report, that would have been arranged at an additional cost. Had she asked to 
see the homebuyers report she thought shes asked for during the mortgage process, she 
would have been made aware that one hadnt been requested. She didnt ask. Clydesdale 
provided the tariff of charges, which showed a valuation cost of £430 for a property of the 
value she was buying. It also enclosed a copy of the mortgage offer it had sent Mrs E, which 
showed the valuation cost of £430. Clydesdale confirmed that its decision remained 
unchanged.
Mrs E remained unhappy with Clydesdales response and she referred her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
confirmed that we werent able to comment on the content of the valuation report and 
explained why. He also explained that Clydesdale wasnt required to provide Mrs E advice 
on what type of survey to have and there was no evidence it had. He thought it was clear 
from the documentation from the time of the sale that only a basic valuation was being 
arranged and that was what Mrs E paid the fee for. 
Mrs E didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She repeated that she thought there was 
a free valuation included with the mortgage she was applying for and that the fee of £430 
was for a higher-level survey. It was also pointed out that whilst the documentation may have made it clear that the fee paid was for a standard valuation, Mrs E was a layperson and 
suggested the description wouldnt have meant much to her. As such, she wouldnt have 
known from any of the documentation that she wasnt getting the level of inspection she 
wanted. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his conclusions and so it was decided the case 
should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
Following this, Mrs E raised some additional points about the valuation report that was 
produced. Firstly, that as the report was for the lenders use only, it shouldnt have had 
Mrs Es name on it. It was also pointed out that the document didnt say that it was for the 
sole use of the bank and what it would be used for. She said that if the document was only to 
be used for the purpose the bank has now said it was, she shouldnt have been given a 
copy. Mrs E also said she believes that Clydesdale should pursue the surveying firm, for 
what she considers was its negligence, and recover the cost of the repairs to Mrs Es home. 
This is because she believes the property wasnt suitable security for the mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before moving on to consider Clydesdales actions in relation to the valuation/surveying 
arrangements. I would confirm that when a lender commissions a valuation from an 
independent valuer, it is allowed to arrange for a suitably qualified expert to undertake the 
valuation  usually a member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). If it does 
this, it is entitled to rely on the valuation report provided. However, the lender is not 
responsible for the content/findings of the valuation report  that is the responsibility of the 
expert that creates the report. 
Clydesdale commissioned a RICS surveyor to complete the valuation. As such, although I 
am aware that Mrs E isnt happy with the contents of the valuation, I cant comment on them 
in this decision. 
Although many lenders will, at the request of a customer arrange for a more in-depth survey 
to be done at the same time as the valuation, lenders dont provide advice to a customer 
about whether or not to arrange one. The customer will usually be told they exist, what they 
would generally cover and how much they would cost. It would be entirely up to the 
customer as to whether they wanted a survey done in addition to the valuation for the lender. 
If a customer wanted a survey done alongside the valuation, the instruction and fee for this 
would be passed to the surveying company when the valuation was commissioned. The 
survey report would, however, only be provided to the customer and it would be sent to them 
direct.
Mrs E has said she wanted, and believes she requested and paid for, a homebuyers report. 
She has confirmed homebuyers is the description she understood was used in 2016 for the 
level of survey she wanted.  I have noted Mrs Es more recent comments on the fact that the 
description of standard valuation used in the documentation the investigator mentioned 
wouldnt have meant anything to her, and she wouldnt have known this meant she wasnt 
getting the type of inspection report she wanted. Given her explanation contained in her 
original complaint to Clydesdale, I cant agree that Mrs E wouldnt have known that a 
standard valuation was different to the homebuyers report she has said she asked for. 
Having looked at the documentation from the time of the sale of this mortgage, I am satisfied 
that it was clear Mrs E wasnt receiving a free valuation as part of the mortgage package. Rather I think she would have known the fee being paid was for a standard valuation, rather 
than a more in-depth homebuyers report. 
I cant know what was discussed with the mortgage adviser in 2016 as I wasnt there, and 
the interview wasnt recorded. However, had Mrs E thought that the £430 shed paid was for 
a homebuyers report, I would have expected her to question the information contained in 
the key facts document, the mortgage offer, and the notes attached to the valuation she 
received. Indeed, as she would have been told what to expect from a homebuyers report, I 
would also have expected her to question only receiving the relatively brief valuation report, 
forwarded by Clydesdale, with the explanation given about it. 
I have every sympathy with Mrs E having been faced with such a major renovation such a 
short time after buying her home. However, I cant hold Clydesdale responsible for it not 
being noted in the valuation report. Nor do I think the evidence supports Mrs Es recollection 
of having commissioned and paid for a homebuyers report at the time of her mortgage 
application and Clydesdale having failed to arrange it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 
2 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman