DRN-4084821
The complaint
Mr B, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted his loans.
What happened
Mr B was advanced 6 loans and Ive included some of the information weve received about 
them in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentscost per week 
per loan
1 £200.00 22/06/2017 27/10/2017 20 £15.00
2 £500.00 06/12/2017 24/07/2018 33 £25.00
3 £500.00 24/07/2018 09/11/2018 33 £25.00
4 £500.00 24/07/2018 09/11/2018 52 £17.50
gap in lending
5 £850.00 05/11/2019 09/10/2020 53 £29.75
6 £500.00 19/02/2020 17/07/2020 22 £35.00
Following Mr Bs complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold it. Unhappy, Mr Bs representative referred the complaint to the  Financial 
Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 1 - 4 so she didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about them. 
However, the adjudicator explained loan 5 was the start of a new lending chain because 
there had been a break of around a year after loan 4 had been repaid. The adjudicator 
thought, given the term of the repayment for loan 5 along with what Morses already knew 
about Mr Bs circumstances led her to conclude that he would be required to use a 
significant portion of his income in servicing the loan (as well as loan 6). She also concluded, 
that after the loan repayments Mr B wasnt left with very much money. So, the adjudicator 
upheld Mr Bs complaint about loans 5 and 6 only. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome, and Ive read and considered everything it has 
provided.  
Mr Bs representative confirmed it had received the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided.  
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mr B (or his representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 4. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. 
So, I say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether loans 5 and 6 ought to 
have been granted. 
Loan 5 
For this loan, Mr B declared an income of £320 per week and Morses said this was verified 
with the credit reference agencies  although it hasnt provided details of this check or the 
results.Mr Bs outgoings were declared as being £234.70 for the week. This left, Mr B with £85.30 
per week in disposable income to afford the repayment of £29.75. 
However, Mr B was due to pay Morses almost 10% of his total weekly income  and he was 
committed to paying this to Morses for a year. So, the repayment for loan 5, in my view, 
represented a significant proportion of Mr Bs declared income. In these circumstances, 
there was a significant risk that Mr B wouldnt have been able to meet his existing 
commitments without having to borrow again. This reason is enough, on its own to uphold 
the complaint. 
In addition, and because it doesnt have any bearing on the outcome that I am reaching, I 
think its also clear the loan repayment was also unlikely to be affordable. Before, this loan 
payment was factored into Mr Bs expenditure  Morses knew he had disposable weekly 
income of £85.30. And this would reduce to £55.55 per week once Mr B had paid Morses  
this isnt a lot of disposable income to cover any other costs. 
And, there are indicators within the declared expenditure (or with the minimum figures used 
by Morses) which showed, that the loan was unlikely to be affordable. Morses has recorded 
zero costs for groceries, which to me doesnt seem plausible especially as Morses had 
recorded food costs previously of between £30 and £70 per week. I think it is more likely 
than not that Mr B also had such costs when this loan was granted. 
So overall, leaving Mr B with £55.55 per week when its likely, that he had further costs that 
Morses hadnt considered or factored into its affordability assessment, means that not only 
was the loan unsustainable for him, for the reasons Ive outlined above but it was also most 
likely unaffordable for him as well. 
Loan 6
Similar checks were also carried out before this loan was approved. Mr Bs weekly income 
has been recorded as £300. With outgoings of £229.45  leaving disposable of £70.55  but 
this included Mr Bs commitment for loan 5. 
But this time, Mr B had two loans running at the same time, his income had decreased by 
£20 per week and so, I am also upholding this loan  for the same reason the adjudicator 
did. Given that over 20% of his income was going to need to be used to service his credit 
commitments was given everything else Morses knew was in my view too much. 
Loan 5 was still outstanding when loan 6 was advanced, so Mr Bs total weekly commitment 
to Morses was £64.75. Which, given the term that was due to be repaid over, compared to 
his income I once again think this percentage of income was too high for the loan to be 
sustainable for him. 
Indeed, the expenditure information Morses collected also supports the loan wasnt likely 
sustainable. His disposable weekly income (after the Morses payments for loans 5 and 6 
were considered) was £35.55. And like loan 5 Morses recorded zero for food costs, which 
just isnt plausible given these costs were recorded for earlier loans. And no utilities were 
recorded either  which there had been for previous loans including for loan 5  and these 
had been recorded as being £35 per week. 
So, leaving Mr B only £35.55 per week in which to likely have to cover food and utilities costs 
in my mind clearly isnt sufficient. And therefore, like loan 5, while Mr B was going to need to 
use a significant portion of his income to repay the loan, he also was unlikely to afford the 
loan given the extra costs he likely had. Overall, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Ive outlined below what 
Morses needs to do in order to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it had not advanced loans 5 and 6, as Im satisfied it ought not to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Mr B with loans 5 and 6. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to loans 5 and 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr B as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman