DRN-3271631
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain their mortgage was irresponsibly lent by the predecessor firm of 
NRAM Limited. Theyre also unhappy about its transfer to NRAM Limited and the interest 
theyve been charged over the years.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out their mortgage  via a broker  with Northern Rock in 2003. Their 
mortgage has remained with Northern Rock and, since its collapse, with NRAM ever since. 
At various points between 2003 and 2006 they borrowed further money, increasing the 
balance. They also converted the mortgage to interest only around this time.
They said that the initial mortgage may or may not have been appropriate for them, but the 
further lending wasnt. They said they werent given proper advice and there was no 
assessment done of whether they could afford to borrow. They werent required to evidence 
how they would repay the capital at the end of the term. And, they say, their mortgage was 
wrongly marked as sub-prime and sold to NRAM, meaning they ended up being stuck on a 
higher interest rate. Theyve unhappy with the interest rate theyve paid since then, and that 
there were no new fixed rates available to them.
Mr and Mrs D explained that they borrowed 100% of the purchase price to buy their 
property. But it needed extensive renovations, which led to the further borrowing on the 
mortgage, as well as other unsecured debt which was later added to the mortgage. They say 
Northern Rock should not have allowed them to borrow more than their property was worth 
and should have suggested other ways of dealing with their debts rather than adding them to 
the mortgage.
They moved to another lender in 2017 to convert to repayment terms. But they could only 
afford to do so by extending the term, meaning that they will have to pay their mortgage into 
their retirement. And they still had to cash in Mr Ds pension to reduce the balance. If, they 
said, Northern Rock had lent to them responsibly, they would be mortgage free in retirement. 
NRAM said Northern Rock had lent responsibly and in line with its policies at the time. It said 
this part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint was out of time. It said there was nothing unfair about 
the transfer to NRAM, and NRAM didnt offer new interest rates to its customers so 
Mr and Mrs D were in the same position as all its other borrowers.
Our investigator said that the complaints about the lending and transfer were out of time and
he could not consider them. And he didnt uphold the complaint about the interest rate.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I previously issued a 
decision in which I found that the complaint about the sale of the mortgage and the switch to 
interest only was out of time, as was the complaint about the transfer to NRAM. I said we 
could consider the complaint about interest charged  but only for the six years leading up to 
when Mr and Mrs D first complained in August 2013, until the mortgage was redeemed in 
2017. What follows is my decision on the merits of that complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive said that we cannot consider what happened when Mr and Mrs D took out the mortgage 
or further borrowing, or when it was converted to interest only.
By 2008, the mortgage was on interest only terms. Around this time, during the global 
financial crisis, Northern Rock collapsed and stopped new lending. It was bought up by the 
government and most of its mortgages, including Mr and Mrs Ds, were transferred to the 
government-owned vehicle which became NRAM.
Ive said we cant consider the fairness of this either. But its important context for the part of 
the complaint we can consider.
Following its collapse Northern Rock stopped offering new borrowing, and stopped offering 
new interest rates to existing lenders. And when NRAM took over, it too did not do either of 
those things. NRAMs purpose was not to win new borrowers, but to gradually wind down or 
sell off existing loans. And as a government-owned body there are rules in place about it 
competing with lenders on the open market. 
For all those reasons, NRAM did not offer new interest rates to any of its customers, 
including Mr and Mrs D. Once their existing fixed rates expired, there was no option but to 
remain on the standard variable rate (SVR)  or to move to another lender, as Mr and Mrs D 
eventually did.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs D might have expected that Northern Rock would continue 
to offer them new interest rates, and that NRAM would too  as most active mortgage 
lenders do offer rates to existing customers. But there was nothing in the terms of the 
mortgage contract that said it had to do so. So it wasnt in breach of the mortgage terms and 
conditions. It only offered the SVR  and while the SVR was higher than the preferential 
rates other lenders offered their customers, it was in line with the SVR rates of other lenders.
And all other NRAM customers were in the same position as Mr and Mrs D, so I dont think I 
can say they were treated unfairly.
In recognition that its borrowers could not reduce their rate by remaining with NRAM, I would 
expect it to treat them fairly and sympathetically in other ways, and where possible offer 
them assistance in moving to another lender to reduce their rate. I can see Mr and Mrs D 
were able to go elsewhere in 2017. In all the circumstances, I dont think I can say NRAM 
treated them unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman