DRN-3989097
The complaint
T, a golf club, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined to cover its claim under its 
Classic Golf Insurance policy. 
What happened
Ts complaint relates to a claim it made on its Classic Golf Insurance Policy for asset 
protection cover, following its discovery of significant financial losses at the end of its 
accounting period. 
The claim followed Ts appointment of a forensic accountant who discovered that the losses 
were attributable to the actions of the Club Manager, including, but not limited to, falsifying 
bank statements, making payments to her personal bank account from Ts account and 
generally appropriating funds she wasnt entitled to. 
The Club Manager has since been the subject of criminal proceedings.
Aviva declined the claim. In summary, they said T wasnt entitled to cover because:
 It didnt comply with the policy requirement for specific controls to have been placed on 
its wage roll, as set out in the policy; 
It failed to comply with the reconciliation control in relation to checking of its cash book 
by specified individuals, as set out by the policy;
Its not exempted from the breaches set out above because Ts situation doesnt fall 
within the Inadvertent breach section of the policy.
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. T doesnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ts complaint for broadly the same reasons reached by 
the investigator. I note Ts strength of representations about this and Ive considered 
everything both parties have said in coming to my conclusion. In this decision I may not 
mention all of those submissions. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of the service we provide. 
The Policy 
The starting point is the policy terms. They cover:
(1) loss of Insured Property which You (a) sustain during the Section Period, and (b)
discover prior to the expiry of the Discovery Period solely and directly as a result of one
or more act or acts of fraud or dishonesty committed by an Employee alone or acting In
Collusion with the intent to cause You to sustain the loss and to obtain Improper Gain.
(2) investigation costs, solely to substantiate the amount of any claim You make, which
are incurred with Our written consent, including professional fees, but not salaries,
wages or any similar expenditure.
(3) the cost of reinstatement of electronic data with Our written consent if such data was
destroyed, erased or stolen during the execution of a valid claim in respect of which
payment has been made or agreed.
Aviva have declined the claim based on the following:
We will not be liable to pay any claim if You have not complied with and operated any
one or more of The Controls which is material to any part of that claim unless You can
conclusively demonstrate that this non-compliance was an Inadvertent Breach of The
Controls.
Its not in dispute that those controls are intended to provide some form of mitigation against 
loss suffered as a result of dishonest conduct by employees. What is in dispute is whether T 
complied with the specific controls in relation to wage roll and reconciliation. For ease of 
reading, Ive discussed those separately under the headings below.
Controls
Wage roll
The control requirement set out by the policy states that:
the cast of the payroll will be examined at least quarterly by someone other than the 
Employee responsible or by a Principal to check that the total amount drawn is correct
and that there are no past or fictitious Employees included.
Principal is defined as any person who is an owner, partner, director or trustee who is
not also a Member of Staff in some other capacity whilst Member of Staff is defined as 
any person as defined as an Employee. Employee is defined as the following personnel 
(i) General Manager (ii) Club Secretary (iii) Treasurer (iv) Bar Steward (v) Golf Club 
Professional (vi) Committee Members.
The question of fictitious employees being recorded is not in issue so its not one I need to 
consider further. T have said that the preparation and administration of the wage roll is a 
task undertaken by the Administrative Assistant on a monthly basis which is then supplied to 
the Club Manager for checking. T holds monthly meetings consisting of its Council where 
finances are discussed. T considers that taken together, this means that it has complied with 
the requirement for the cast of payroll to be examined at least quarterly by someone other 
than the Club Manager. I dont agree. 
The policy requirement is for someone other than the Employee responsible to check the 
cast of the payroll. T had assigned the Club Manager as responsible for the wage roll, the 
preparation of which was delegated to an Administrative Assistant, but the Club Manager 
remained responsible. Although the Club Manager apparently checked the Assistants work, 
I dont think that can be considered to amount to the checking that the total amount drawn 
down is correct because that task is ultimately the responsibility of the Club Manager in the 
first instance. And given the term requires that someone other than the Employee responsible is needed to ensure the control is met, the reasonable implication is that its 
conducted by someone suitable and most likely more senior to the Club Manager. 
Further clarity is apparent as the policy references a Principal as a possible person - 
namely an owner, partner, director or trustee who is not also a Member of Staff in some 
other capacity. The implication of this is that the person checking the cast of the payroll is 
carried out by someone with a higher level of responsibility within the Club than the person 
doing the underlying work being checked, in this case the Club Manager 
I appreciate Ts point that the issue of finances being discussed at monthly meetings fulfils 
this requirement because people of such seniority are in attendance at those meetings, but I 
dont think that amounts to the same thing as a physical review of the cast of the payroll. 
Thats a specific task that needs to be considered as a standalone function and not one Ive 
seen any evidence of being looked at and discussed in any great detail at a Council meeting. 
And it doesnt to my mind, build in the level of control that Aviva would most likely have 
intended when drafting that term. 
So, my starting point is that T is in breach of the relevant control. But in order to say that 
Aviva were entitled to decline cover on this basis, I also need to be satisfied that it was fair 
and reasonable for them to do so.
Ive thought about what the accountants instructed by T have said about the fact that 
stringent controls are not always able to be implemented in golf clubs of Ts size and that 
trust is placed on people of in positions of responsibility including the accountancy services 
provided by the Clubs accountants periodically. Ive also considered Ts assertions that in 
similarly constructed golf clubs, there is no Principal that isnt also a Member of Staff in some 
capacity. 
I take on board what T and the accountant they instructed have said but ultimately the 
purpose of the controls in place are to mitigate risk. Whilst it might not be practicable in 
every situation to comply with them entirely, or indeed expensive, I dont think its impossible. 
In this case, I might have accepted that T had done enough to mitigate that risk if theyd 
done more than discuss finances at their monthly meeting. That, to my mind, doesnt amount 
to enough of a mitigation of risk. And although I accept that an organisation with Ts 
composition might find it onerous to instruct an outside party to carry out this task on a 
monthly basis, it is something that may well have been possible to have been conducted by 
an internal Principal, as defined by the policy. Whether that person would have picked up on 
the discrepancies any sooner is in some way academic. Thats because they would have 
complied with the policy requirement to review things monthly. But given the nature of some 
of the transactions, I find it likely that a specific review of payroll would have resulted in 
cause for concern early on, particularly when reviewing wage payments being diverted to the 
Club Manager under another employees name. 
Reconciliation
This control requires All cash book entries will be checked by a Principal or by someone
other than the Employees responsible at least monthly against bank statements, receipts 
and other supporting documentation and the balance tested against cash and un-presented
Cheques.
Again, T contends that this work was carried out by the Administrative Assistant and the 
Club Manager and that financials were discussed at monthly meetings by Ts Council.  For 
the same reasons Ive set out in relation to payroll, Im not satisfied that this complies with 
the policy requirement Ive noted above. And I repeat that the requirement is essentially for 
someone with sufficient seniority or responsibility to review matters independently.In addition, theres no evidence that cash book entries were physically reviewed or checked 
during Council meetings against bank statements, receipts and other supporting documents. 
Based on the variety of methods of fraud carried out by the Club Manager, Im satisfied that 
had this activity been carried out, its likely some anomalies at the very least would have 
been picked up sooner, such that would have led to an earlier enquiry and minimized Ts 
losses which T was ultimately seeking to claim from Aviva. As things stand, loss was 
sustained over a period of months, if not years. I think that this control could have mitigated 
the amount and time the deceit and subsequent loss wouldve carried on for. 
This is supported by the action taken by T when the loss was discovered. It took action to 
find out why this was by appointing a member of the Council with a background in 
accounting to carry out an internal audit. Whilst that individual might not have been able to 
carry out a review to the scale later carried out by the forensic accountant, it certainly set the 
matter on a course for resolution much sooner. 
Much has been made of the duties of the Administrative Assistant and the Club Manager in 
relation to reconciliation by the parties and the fact that this would be typical for a club of Ts 
size and composition. But I dont think that matters. Whether the procedures required of the 
Administrative Assistant and Club Manager were communicated or not makes little 
difference. The question of whether the physical control required by the policy, or something 
akin to it that mitigated risk more than the current circumstances, leads me to the conclusion 
that Aviva were entitled to decline cover both on the terms of the policy and a fair and 
reasonable basis.
Inadvertent breach
Ts failure to comply with the controls Ive set out are mitigated by the policy if:
any failure by any Employee to comply with any part of Your Procedures which was without 
Your knowledge or consent or the knowledge or consent of any of Your Principals or other 
officers but only if You can conclusively demonstrate that You (1) had communicated the 
relevant Procedures in writing to all Employees in Roles With Responsibility, and (2) 
instructed all Employees in Roles With Responsibility of their duty to comply with and ensure 
compliance with Your Procedures.
 
T relies on a job description communicated to the Club Manager in support of its contention 
that it communicated its procedures in writing and instructed them of their duty to comply 
with them. The job description is not signed, which is unfortunate because in itself, it offers 
no evidence that T did communicate its procedures in writing and instructed the Club 
Manager of her responsibilities. I know that T has offered signed statements of truth from its 
Club Captain to support that the job description was signed by the Club Manager in his 
presence. If T is able to provide this then Id expect Aviva to consider it further but as matters 
stand, I dont think Aviva were wrong to reject the position that T mitigated its failure to 
comply with the policy controls based on inadvertent breach. 
T has asked whether a signed job description would have altered the outcome of its claim to 
Aviva. I cant comment on this because Aviva havent considered and responded on that 
point and as Ive said above the issue isnt specifically in relation to the job description itself 
being provided; rather its supportive evidence that T can demonstrate they communicated 
their procedures in writing and instructed the Club Manager of her responsibility of her duty 
to comply with and ensure compliance of Ts procedures. 
Forensic investigation costsFinally, I know that T wants Aviva to discharge its costs in appointing and obtaining a report 
from a forensic accountant to support the claim.
Aviva have said that theyre prepared to consider this provided that T is able to supply the 
terms under which the accountant was instructed, or the final bill as well as a breakdown of 
his costs. Aviva have said that if T can evidence that the work carried out was to identify and 
evidence the loss claimed, they would be prepared to discharge these costs.
I take the view that this position is entirely reasonable and in line with what Id expect from 
an insurer. As such its now up to T to provide Aviva with the details requested so further 
consideration can be given to this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman