DRN-3031006
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a secured 
personal loan. I understand Mrs and Mr P have made other PPI complaints, so to be clear, 
this decision is about the £5,000 loan taken out with Nationwide Building Society, in 2004. 
Mrs and Mr P say they were mis-sold PPI with this loan. 
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought Nationwides subsequent 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mrs and Mr P paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs and 
Mr Ps complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint but I too 
think that the offer made by Nationwide to pay some of the commission element back is fair.
Ive looked at the original agreement which Mrs and Mr P signed, and I can see their 
secured loan was accompanied by PPI. I note that the PPI was described on this document - 
clearly in my view - as optional. We also know this was a telephone sale. So I think the PPI 
would have been discussed and most likely verbally agreed to during that call. Mrs and Mr P 
were then sent the relevant documents to check and sign in their own time and they later 
confirmed that the PPI was something they were prepared to take for the first named 
applicant, in this case Mr P. 
To me, this shows Nationwide correctly obtained Mrs and Mr Ps consent for the PPI to be 
added.
Nationwide did not recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr P as part of an advised sale. Theres 
no evidence of a full assessment of their financial needs and my experience of similar loans 
with Nationwide is that this was a non-advised sale. This means it was for Mrs and Mr P to 
decide for themselves whether the PPI cover was something they wanted to have. I see they 
had access to the price of the PPI and they would have been easily able to see the cost of 
the loan and the additional PPI premium theyd need to pay for this type of cover. 
Mrs and Mr Ps representatives made a number of points of complaint which I dont think are 
relevant. They have implied, for example, that Mrs P wasnt eligible for the cover and also 
cited a number of pre-existing illnesses she had. But Mrs P wasnt named on this policy - 
only Mr P was covered by it. He, on the other hand, was eligible for the cover and although 
he may well already have had some sick pay with his job at the time, this doesnt mean the 
PPI wasnt of use. The policy would have paid off their loan repayments for up to two years 
in certain situations in the event of a successful claim. However, as Ive already said, as a 
non-advised sale, the decision about having PPI was for Mrs and Mr P to make themselves.
Its certainly possible the information Nationwide gave to Mrs and Mr P about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. However, Ive found that they chose to take it out and the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for their situation, or too dissimilar to what they 
reasonably would have thought they were buying from the information they were most likely 
given at the point of sale. It also looks like, at £6 per month, the policy was affordable for 
them, so it seems to me like it would have been useful if something went wrong. Because of 
all these things I dont think Mrs and Mr P would have declined the cover, even if Nationwide 
might have done a better job at explaining some things. I havent seen anything about Mr Ps 
occupation, health or other circumstances that would have made claiming difficult for him.
Mrs and Mr Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Ps particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale part of the complaint. 
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?Nationwide didnt tell Mrs and Mr P about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mrs and Mr P was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Nationwide didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs and Mr P 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs and Mr Ps representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on the complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs and Mr P should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Nationwide failed to tell Mrs and Mr P about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs and Mr P wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid. But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs and Mr P in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the 
high level of commission before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs and Mr Ps representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs and Mr P paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs and Mr P with the policy 
Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Nationwide had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs and Mr Ps complaint or make any award for this.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs and Mr P an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). I understand Nationwide Building Society has already offered to 
pay this some time ago.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman