DRN-3061002
The complaint
Ms S complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance (RSA). She isnt happy that it 
charged two separate excess payments for claims under her home insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms S made two claims in relation to subsidence under her RSA insurance policy. The first 
was in 2013 and the second was in 2018. RSA looked at each claim but was of the view that 
they werent connected and so asked for excess payments in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Ms S wasnt happy about this, so she complained to RSA and then this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He considered the 
reports and evidence provided by both sides but was satisfied that RSA had acted fairly in 
concluding that the two subsidence claims werent linked.
As Ms S didnt agree, maintaining that our investigator wasnt looking at her complaint and 
her surveyors report objectively, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms S, but Ill explain why.
I know Ms S believes that she shouldnt have to pay a second excess as she feels that, in 
effect, RSA didnt deal with the first claim from 2013 properly. But I dont feel that there is 
sufficient evidence to say that RSA has acted unreasonably here.
The key issue to consider is whether both claims are as a result of the exact same cause or 
that there was some kind of problem or error in the way the repairs were completed in 2013. 
And having looked at the evidence provided by both sides I dont think RSA has acted 
unreasonably in agreeing to pay Ms S second subsidence claim and deciding it was a 
separate claim to the first. I say this as RSA has looked into the claim in a detailed way and 
its engineer has provided a clear report explaining that the two claims are separate and 
distinct. 
RSAs appointed subsidence expert has been clear throughout that the first claim in 2013 
related to a collapsed drain and was fully repaired at that time. And I havent seen anything 
to suggest that the drain repair wasnt repaired to a suitable standard. While the second 
claim in 2018, which it fully investigated, was in relation to incidence of ground movement 
caused by consolidation of subsoils beneath the foundations. As such, RSA was satisfied 
that the causes were fundamentally different from the original 2013 claim and so a new claim 
had to be set up and an excess paid in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
I know Ms S has appointed her own expert and Ive considered his report in full. Indeed, our 
investigator asked RSA to consider Ms S report to see if it changed its position, but it didnt, 
and RSA provided its reasoning why. And having considered Ms S experts report, and 
RSAs comments, in full I dont find her report as persuasive as RSAs. And it appears to 
suggest that the second claim has been caused by gradual settlement as a result of 
changes in the sub soil conditions following the remedial repairs completed in 2014. And not 
because of subsidence. But RSA feel that any residual effect of subsidence due to 
leaking drains would have developed around the time of the original works being completed 
in 2015 and not three and a half years later. 
Ms S expert feels that RSA should have continued monitoring the original subsidence claim 
and had it have done so further movement would have been noted. But I dont think RSA 
was obliged to do this and the further internal damage was only noted a few years after the 
original repair (as outlined above). And I would have expected any problems to be noted far 
earlier here if they were related to the first subsidence repair and I find this point compelling.
Ms S appointed expert is of the view that RSA cant be sure that the two claims arent 
related as it didnt monitor the original subsidence and I can understand the general point. 
But, on the other hand, they havent provided any real evidence that the two claims are 
related. He has suggested that gradual settlement from the time of remedial repairs after the 
first claim could have caused the second claim. And he doesnt believe that subsidence is 
the cause of the second claim. But I think RSAs detailed investigation is clear that the 
second claim is also subsidence but with a different cause to the first claim. 
Indeed, Ms S initially maintained that she thought the property needed underpinning 
because of subsidence following the second claim although she seems to accept that this 
isnt necessary now. So, although Ms S engineer feels that RSA cant be sure the two 
claims arent the same I dont feel there is sufficient evidence to say they are the same  and  
RSAs subsidence experts is clear that the two subsidence claims have different causes.
Ultimately, what sways me here is RSAs engineer has been very clear in their consideration 
of the claim that the first cause in 2013 was a collapsed drain while the second cause was 
the consolidation of subsoils beneath the foundations which is clearly different. And to add 
to this the claims were three years apart so I cant say RSA has acted unreasonably in 
treating the two claims separately and asking for an excess in line with the policy. 
Given all of this, I cant say that RSA has acted unreasonably in concluding that the causes 
of the subsidence damage at Ms S property are separate and charging two separate 
excesses. And Ill simply leave it to Ms S to decide if she wants to proceed with the second 
claim now.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman