DRN-2814505
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) advertised two different 
representative APRs for the same product.
What happened
Mrs H has a loan with NatWest and was offered a further loan at a representative APR of 
5.9%. However, Mrs H had previously seen adverts by NatWest offering loans at a 
representative APR of 3.9%. Mrs H wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mrs Hs complaint, but they misunderstood Mrs Hs complaint as being 
that she had been offered a loan at a rate of 5.9%, and that Mrs H was unhappy that she 
hadnt qualified for the lower representative rate. So, they responded to Mrs H and explained 
what a representative rate is and didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also misunderstood Mrs 
Hs complaint in the same way that NatWest had, and so they also didnt uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
Mrs H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has provided two screenshots to this service. One is a general advert which includes 
the following:
Representative 3.9% APR for loans between £7,500 and £19,950.
The other was sent to Mrs H directly and includes the following:
Representative 5.9% APR for loans between £7,500 - £14,950.
Mrs Hs complaint is, essentially, that it isnt possible for there to be two differing 
representative APRs, given that a feature of a representative APR is that a business 
expects at least 51% of its customers to qualify for it. 
I can see Mrs Hs point here, and it may be the case that there is an issue with the 
information that NatWest were advertising not being consistent or mutually compatible.
However, given that the issue here is one of information advertised, this would be a 
regulatory matter and would fall under the jurisdiction of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and wouldnt fall within the remit of this service to consider.
What this service can consider is whether there has been an unfair outcome here, or 
whether Mrs H has incurred any material financial loss. But Im not convinced that thats the 
case in this instance, and I say this because while NatWests advertising may not have been 
consistent, Im satisfied from the explanations provided to this service by NatWest that their 
intention was to offer Mrs H a loan with a representative rate of 5.9%, as described in the 
offer sent personally to her.
Mrs H chose not to apply for a loan in this instance, and had she done so Im not convinced 
that the representative rate of 3.9% would ever have been available to her. So, while I can 
understand her frustration at the inconstancy in the APRs advertised by NatWest, I cant 
conclude that any financial loss has incurred such that any award of compensation would be 
merited.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs H was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint of asking NatWest to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mrs H can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman