DRN-3618454
The complaint
Mrs M, through her representative, complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to 
her, and increased her credit limits, when she could not afford it.
What happened
This was not a loan. Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being 
determined and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she required. 
The credit was unsecured and had no fixed duration.
Briefly, Mrs M applied for a credit facility of £1,000 in April 2018. Drafty approved a credit 
facility of £700. The limit was increased once to £800 in August 2019. 
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mrs M. On the assumption that Mrs M drew down the full £700 on 
the first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal 
instalments then the total amount payable would have been just under £950. This would 
have equated to about £79 a month (Clause 5 in the agreement).
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mrs Ms salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that 
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6 
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near 
Mrs Ms monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. 
The account got into arrears, was suspended in May 2020 and the debt was then passed to 
a third-party debt collector in November 2020 and it remains with that party. Mrs M has been 
paying £29.91 each month since 7 November 2020 and I understand she may still be doing 
that. 
Mrs M complained to Drafty in 2021 and received a final response letter (FRL) in 
September 2021 in which Drafty gave reasons why it did not uphold her complaint. Mrs Ms 
representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In July 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys 
decision to approve the credit facility initially was right. But that from 23 November 2019 
Drafty ought to have stopped Mrs M from using the facility, ceased adding interest and ought 
to have treated her with forbearance to allow her to repay the whole debt. 
Drafty agreed in part  - the uphold date being 23 November 2019 - and said it would do the 
following:
to refund the interest and charges paid towards new drawdowns from 23 November 
2019
remove any adverse information in reference to the above-mentioned account from 
Mrs Ms credit file from 23 November 2019.
But Drafty made the point that any amount given to the customer before this date was 
affordable and after this date was unaffordable so Drafty considered it was well within its 
rights to collect the principal as well as interest on any drawdowns prior to the uphold date.
Mrs Ms representatives response to Draftys resolution offer was to reject it which suggests 
that as well as rejecting the offer she also disagreed with the adjudicators view
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Initial approval of the credit facility. 
I need to explain to Mrs M that upon first approaching Drafty in April 2018 it would not be 
expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and comprehensive 
financial review. Mrs M was a new customer. And bearing in mind the credit limit granted 
and the monthly payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable period, Drafty 
was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested that Mrs M had enough 
disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £700.
Mrs M applied for a £1,000 loan in April 2018 and said to Drafty she was employed full time 
and earned £1,400 a month after tax and had monthly expenditure of £975.
Having looked at all that Mrs M has given me, and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would have 
considered proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable 
and able to be repaid within a reasonable time.
Monitoring of the account 
After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account facility, Drafty did have to 
monitor Mrs M account and it has been explained to us how it did that but very briefly. I refer 
to the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 which 
addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an account. One 
indication of a risk of a customer being in financial difficulties is where it seems that the 
customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
By 23 November 2019, I think Drafty had enough information to suggest that Mrs M was not 
going to repay what she owed within a reasonable period. Once Mrs M was approved a 
higher credit limit, she went on to withdraw the remaining credit available. Her borrowing 
history showed a pattern whereby she was making her repayments for a few months but 
would then need to request further credit shortly after. This would then return her to her 
original position - owing her full credit limit.By 23 November 2019, Mrs M had held her facility for around 19 months, and she still owed 
the majority of what she had borrowed. At this point, I think Drafty should have permanently 
suspended the account, rather than allow Mrs M to continue using it in the same manner 
going forwards.
There were several actions Drafty could have taken. But as none of these were taken.  
Drafty agrees about the adjudicators view of the uphold date of 23 November 2019 and 
I agree with that date too. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a 
facility that has become demonstrably unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable 
to expect a lender to help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what 
they already owe. Where Mrs Ms repayment record suggested she was already struggling 
to repay the amount owed, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged 
on Mrs Ms balance is fair and reasonable. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Mrs M at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty accepted it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Mrs M to repay what 
was owed, then it ought to have ceased charging interest on this balance from 
23 November 2019. 
I realise Drafty has said it does not agree, but thats my decision. 
Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do to put things right for Mrs M. 
Putting things right
My understanding is that the account was passed to a third party collector but the loan 
ownership remains with Drafty. And as of July 2022, the outstanding balance was £291.34. 
That account may have been paid off by now  February 2023- but I have drafted it to 
include the possibility there remains an outstanding balance.  
Drafty should bring that debt (if there is one) back in-house, remove any of the third party 
charges allocated to the account and not pass them on to Mrs M. And Drafty should do as 
I have set out below. 
Re-work Mrs Ms credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from 23 November 2019 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ms credit file, 
it should backdate this to 23 November 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs M, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, should put things right for Mrs M as outlined in my decision above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman