DRN-3862181
The complaint
Mr D complains that Wise Payments Limited trading as Wise wont refund the money he lost 
after falling victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Towards the end of 2019, Mr D was contacted by someone who told him they worked for an 
investment firm. Mr D was sent information about the investment proposals and decided to 
go ahead. 
On 11 November 2019, Mr D opened an account with Wise and on the same day made his 
first payment of just under $10,000 USD. He thought he was paying an agent of the 
investment firm based in Hong Kong, but sadly he was really paying a fraudster. 
After making the payment, Mr D was given access to a platform showing the buying and 
selling of stocks had taken place. His initial investment appeared to be profitable. 
Another representative of the investment firm contacted Mr D and told him there was a very 
lucrative trade coming up. Mr D was interested. He got his money together and on 
12 December 2019 made a second payment to another account in Hong Kong for just under 
$23,000 USD.
After making the second payment, Mr D explains that he got a feeling that things were not 
right. He did some online research and found information to suggest the investment firm was 
fraudulent. On 15 December 2019, Mr D contacted Wise to see if the payments could be 
cancelled.
Wise said that it was not possible to cancel the payments because they had been 
completed. Mr D complained and said Wise could have done more to protect him from the 
fraud. But Wise didnt agree. 
Unhappy with Wises position, Mr D contacted this service. Our Investigator looked into the 
matter, but she did not recommend it should be upheld. She said that the way Mr D used the 
account was in line with how this type of electronic money account is typically used. She 
didnt think Wise should have been on notice that there was a risk fraud might be taking 
place. She explained that Wise could not have stopped the payments as they had already 
been completed and the funds sent by the time Mr D got in touch. 
Mr D wanted the Ombudsman Service to do more. He felt he was vulnerable and an easy 
target for the fraudsters. 
He pointed out that the transactions were not flagged by Wise and it did not try to contact 
him before the payments were made. In summary, he thought the Ombudsman should follow 
the morality of the complaint and that Wise should bear responsibility.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr D instructed Wise to make the payments, albeit under deception. 
Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  that means he 
is responsible for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
As Ive set out above, Wise had obligations to be on the lookout for out of character and 
unusual transactions, but the question I need to consider is whether there were grounds for it 
to suspect fraud. 
Mr D opened his Wise account in order to make the payments which are the subject of this 
complaint. As it was a brand-new account, there was no previous activity for Wise to 
compare the disputed payments against. Nonetheless, Ive thought about whether Wise 
should have been concerned about the activity which took place on Mr Ds account. 
Wise is a business which specialises in international payments and although it provides 
accounts which can be used for everyday spending, this is not how Mr D was using its 
services. Instead he instructed it to make two single international payments around a month 
apart. Its likely that many customers of Wise will use its services in this way  opening an 
account specifically to make an international payment and then using the account 
infrequently and only when the need to make an international payment arises.
There is no question that the payment amounts were a substantial amount of money for 
Mr D. Hes explained that this money was his life savings. But the amount of money Mr D 
sent, whilst clearly not insignificant, did not in and of itself suggest any heightened risk of 
fraud to Wise at the time the payments were made. Any payment Mr D would have made 
from a brand-new account would have been sent to a new payee. And the amounts couldnt 
be deemed as significantly out of character as Mr D hadnt made any other payments before. 
In addition, Wise did not have any information on its systems to suggest Mr D was otherwise 
at risk or vulnerable to fraud at the time.
I also cant see that Wise knew anything about the recipient of the funds that ought to have 
given it cause for concern (the accounts Mr D paid were not held by Wise, nor would it have had any control over them).
All of this means that I cant fairly say the payments from Mr Ds Wise account ought 
reasonably to have appeared suspicious or uncharacteristic enough to say that Wise ought 
to have intervened before allowing them through. This means Im satisfied I cant reasonably 
say Wise missed an opportunity to prevent the payments before they were sent. I cant see 
any reason why Wise would have suspected Mr D was falling victim to a scam. 
After the payments were made, I cant fairly expect Wise to have done anything further until 
Mr D notified it of the scam. It was disappointing to see Wise took three weeks to try to 
contact one of the beneficiary banks that Mr D paid to see if it could recover any of the 
money he sent. Whilst I think it would have been prudent for Wise to act sooner given what 
had happened, Mr D did not lose out as a result. The response Ive seen from the 
beneficiary bank said it was unable to recover funds and suggested Mr D needed to contact 
the beneficiary directly. 
I think its very unlikely any earlier action from Wise would have made a difference. 
Unfortunately, the chance of recovering funds which are sent internationally is very low and, 
in my experience, often reliant on the consent of the beneficiary account holder.
Mr D has described the devastating impact this scam has had on his life and I dont 
underestimate how hard things have been for him as a result. This is a lot of money for 
anyone to lose so I do understand why he wants to do all that he can to try and recover it. 
But I can only fairly ask Wise to refund him if it is responsible for his loss. Im sorry to have to 
disappoint Mr D, but I cant hold Wise responsible when I dont think it reasonably ought to 
have prevented the payments from being made. In addition, Ive not seen anything to show 
that quicker action by Wise would have led to it recovering or otherwise reimbursing 
the loss.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman