DRN-4240570
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her claim 
against her travel insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs L has an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Red Sands. The policy began on 28 July 2022. Mrs L went on a trip with intended 
departure and return dates of 16 October 2022 and 20 October 2022 respectively. 
On 20 October 2022, Mrs L was with her friend in the lobby of the hotel they had just 
checked out of, waiting for a taxi to the airport for their return journey. She says that 
there was a man on an adjacent table who went to a vending machine behind where she 
was sitting. The man dropped coins and she and her friend helped to pick them up. 
When the taxi arrived to collect Mrs L and her friend, she noticed that her bag was 
missing. Mrs L went to the airport, but the airline didnt allow her on the return flight 
without the correct documentation. Mrs L had to remain abroad for a further period of 
time to get replacement travel documents. 
On 26 October 2022, Mrs L made a claim against her policy in relation to the theft of her 
bag and its contents, including her passport. Her claim also included unused and 
additional travel costs and additional accommodation costs. 
Red Sands declined Mrs Ls claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy in relation to 
unattended items. Red Sands said that from Mrs Ls description of events, it appears 
that her items were left unattended and out of her sight. 
Mrs L said that she didnt in fact leave her bag unattended and out of her sight. She said 
that her bag was with her at all times. Mrs L said that her bag was next to her on the 
chair she was sitting on, and she didnt leave the chair. She said that a highly skilled thief 
caused a lapse in her concentration for a split second and grabbed her possessions 
without her noticing. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Red Sands 
had treated Mrs L unfairly in declining her claim. The investigator said that Red Sands 
had relied on Mrs Ls initial description of what happened and reasonably concluded that 
Mrs L had left her bag unattended. 
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she hadnt left her bag unattended 
and that it was by her side all the time. Mrs L says that she leaned over to pick up coins 
and that she didnt stand up or leave her seat. She asked that an ombudsman consider 
her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 26 June 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in which I indicated that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
PERSONAL POSSESSIONS (POLICY B SECTION 5)
Personal Possessions
We will pay up to the amount shown on your schedule of cover for:
[]
2. the original purchase price of any possessions, less an allowance for age, wear and tear, 
to cover possessions that are stolen, permanently lost or destroyed whilst on your trip
for all valuables limited to the amount shown in the schedule of cover
[]
[]
Personal Money
We will pay up to the limit shown on your schedule of cover for:
the replacement of stolen money or cash whilst on your trip
cash is limited to the amount shown on your schedule of cover if it is lost or stolen 
whilst being carried on your person or left in a locked safety deposit box.
Provided
[]
8. you have not left money, cash, electrical items, eyewear, hearing aids, jewellery and 
watches or photographic equipment unattended (including being contained in luggage 
during transit) except where they are locked in a safe or safety deposit box where these are 
available, or left out of sight in your locked holiday or trip accommodation. []
LOSS OF PASSPORT AND TRAVEL DOCUMENTS (POLICY B SECTION 6)
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of cover for:
1. the cost of an emergency travel document or replacement travel document on your trip.
2. the necessary costs of collecting your emergency or replacement travel document on 
your trip
if during your trip abroad your travel documents are lost, stolen or damaged beyond use
Provided:
[]
4. you have not left your travel documents unattended (including being contained in 
luggage during transit) except where they are locked in a safe or safety deposit box where 
these are available or left out of sight in your locked holiday or trip accommodation. []
The policy defines Unattended as Left away from your person where you are unable to 
clearly see and are unable to get hold of.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Red Sands has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold  
Mrs Ls complaint because I dont think that Red Sands treated her fairly or reasonably in 
declining the claim. I say that because:   Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Subject to the policy terms, Mrs Ls policy provides cover for certain items provided 
that she hasnt left those items unattended. Ive set out above the definition of 
unattended provided in the policy. Red Sands relied on the exclusion about 
unattended items in declining Mrs Ls claim.  
I think that theres been some confusion about the circumstances of the theft here. 
Red Sands says that from Mrs Ls description of events it appears that she left the 
stolen items unattended and out of her sight. Red Sands says that it used google 
images to view the lobby of the hotel and that the seating area is on the raised 
section and the vending machine on the lower section, next to the reception desk. 
It said that the dropped coins were on a different level than Mrs Ls seat, with three 
steps and a pillar between the seating area and the vending machine. Essentially, 
Red Sands says that Mrs L must have left her seat to assist in picking up the coins 
and in doing so, left her handbag unattended. 
Mrs L took a photograph of the hotel lobby three days after the theft occurred. At 
this services request, she has marked the photograph to show where relevant 
people or items were, including where she was sitting, where the man was 
standing and the location of the vending machine. The photograph shows that   
Mrs Ls seat and the vending machine were on the same level. Mrs L says that her 
handbag was tucked between her body and the arm of her chair. She says that 
when she helped to pick up the dropped coins, she leaned forward to pick up a 
coin by the table then slid her seat backwards and bent down to pick up another 
coin, whilst remaining seated. 
This service has shared Mrs Ls marked photograph with Red Sands and asked it 
to review the matter and reconsider its position, but Red Sands didnt respond.  
On balance, I accept Mrs Ls description of what happened. The photograph she 
has provided shows the layout of the hotel lobby. Mrs Ls description of the incident 
has been consistent throughout her claim. 
Based on Mrs Ls description of the theft, Im satisfied that she didnt leave her 
handbag unattended, as defined by the policy. It wasnt away from her where she 
was unable to clearly see and get hold of it. Mrs L describes whats known as a 
distraction theft. The fact that she wasnt able to prevent the theft doesnt mean 
that she left her handbag unattended. 
I think that Red Sands treated Mrs L unfairly in relying on the exclusion Ive set out 
above to decline her claim. I think it should reassess Mrs Ls claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
Its not for this service to reassess Mrs Ls claim but I cant see that her policy 
covers unused and additional travel costs and additional accommodation costs in 
the circumstances that arose here.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs L said that she had nothing further to add. There was an exchange with Red Sands 
which concluded in its confirmation that it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs L nor Red Sands have provided any fresh information or evidence in response 
to my provisional decision. I therefore find no basis on which to depart from my earlier 
conclusions. For the reasons Ive explained, I think that Red Sands treated Mrs L unfairly in 
relying on the exclusion and declining her claim. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Red Sand should reassess Mrs Ls claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms, conditions and limits.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited should now take the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman