DRN-1247491
The complaint
Miss H and Mrs L complain that a car that was supplied to them under a hire purchase 
agreement with Billing Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Billing Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss H and Mrs L - whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Miss H and Mrs L was nearly six years old, had been 
driven for 43,258 miles and had a price of £6,699;
it's clear that they were having issues with the car in November 2018 when it's 
mileage was recorded as 47,513 miles and they paid £270 for repairs including a 
replacement water pump;
they continued to have issues with the car and it was repaired in February 2019 and 
broke down in April 2019;
they say that they've not used the car since then and when it was inspected by an 
independent expert in July 2019 its mileage was recorded as 50,223 miles;
the expert's report concluded that there were a number of issues with the car - 
including a failed head gasket, the engine overheating and an oil leak in the gearbox 
- but it felt that those issues wouldn't have been developing when the car was 
supplied to Miss H and Mrs L;
there are clearly significant issues with the car that was supplied to them and they've 
reported issues since November 2018; and
I don't consider it to be reasonable to expect a car that cost £6,699 and had only 
been driven for 43,258 miles to have so many significant issues within a year of 
being supplied - so I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasn't as 
durable as it was reasonable for Miss H and Mrs L to expect it to be and, for that 
reason, that it wasn't of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to them.Putting things right
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Billing Finance to 
allow Miss H and Mrs L to reject the car. So I find that it should end the agreement and 
arrange for the car to be collected from them. I also find that it should refund the monthly 
payments that they've made under the agreement since they stopped using the car in April 
2019 and reimburse them for the £270 repair costs that they incurred in November 2018 and 
any other repair costs that they've paid - but they'll need to provide it with evidence of those 
costs (and it should add interest to all of those payments).
The hire purchase agreement shows that no deposit or advance payment was made by Miss 
H and Mrs L for the car.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience to Miss H and Mrs L. I find 
that it would also be fair and reasonable for Billing Finance to pay them £100 to compensate 
them for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss H and Mrs L's complaint and I order 
Billing Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from them  
both at no cost to them.
2. Refund to them the monthly payments that they've made under the agreement since 
they stopped using the car in April 2019.
3. Pay £270 to them to reimburse them for the repair costs that they incurred in 
November 2018 and also reimburse them for any other repair costs that they've 
incurred - but they'll need to provide receipts for those costs.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Pay £100 to them to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience that 
they've been caused.
 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Billing Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Billing Finance must give Miss H and Mrs L a certificate showing how 
much tax its deducted if they ask it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman