DRN-4096194
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the ISA she opened with Santander UK Plc in March 2022.  
What happened
At the end of March 2022 Mrs O spoke with agents at Santander concerning ISA products 
available. Mrs O asked about a 1.3% two year fixed rate ISA and explained she wanted to 
add funds for the 2021/2022 tax year. The application wasnt completed over the phone as 
Mrs O wasnt able to hear the agent she was speaking with. 
Mrs O subsequently made an application online for Santanders 1.3% two year fixed rate 
and received an email confirming the account had been opened on 31 March 2022. The 
email confirmation contained instructions for adding funds to the account. 
In August 2022 Mrs O contacted Santander and said she was expecting to receive an ISA 
certificate following her new account being opened and funded. It then came to light Mrs Os 
ISA account hadnt received a transfer of funds. The transfer was completed on 26 August 
2022. In addition, Santander says branch staff upgraded Mrs Os ISA from a 1.3% to 2.8% 
fixed rate. 
Santander issued a final response to Mrs O on 12 October 2022 and apologised that the ISA 
wasnt funded after it was opened. Santander agreed to pay Mrs O £156.88 representing 
interest she wouldve received if funds had been paid into the account on 30 March 2022, 
the date it was opened. Santander also paid Mrs O £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs O referred her complaint to this service and explained that because of the mistakes 
Santander had made she had lost out on the tax free ISA allowance for 2021/2022. The 
investigator said the 1.3% two year fixed rate ISA product Mrs O talked about when she 
called and applied for was only available for subscriptions made within the 2022/2023 tax 
year. The investigator thought Santander had dealt with Mrs Os complaint fairly by refunding 
interest and paying £50 for the trouble and upset caused and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mrs O asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Ive listened to a call Mrs O had with Santander towards the end of March 2022. During the 
call, Mrs O explained she wanted to apply for the 1.3% two year fixed rate ISA product. But 
Mrs O also said she wanted to use her 2021/2022 tax free allowance for the product. The 
agent Mrs O spoke with gave information about the ISA product and offered to complete an 
application. But Mrs O wasnt able to hear the details discussed and the call ultimately 
ended. 
An application was later made for the 1.3% two year fixed rate ISA and approved on 30 
March 2022. Santander emailed Mrs O on 31 March 2022 to confirm the account was 
opened, but no funds were actually transferred into Mrs Os new ISA. I agree there was 
confusion over who would transfer the funds into the new ISA account once it was opened. 
Whilst I agree there was confusion over whether Mrs O or Santander would transfer the 
funds into the new ISA account, I think its fair to note the product she applied for was from 
the 2022/2023 tax year range Santander offered. Santander has confirmed that it didnt offer 
customers the same 1.3% two year fixed rate ISA product for the 2021/2022 tax year 
allowance. That means there was never an option for Mrs O to use her 2021/2022 tax free 
ISA allowance for the 1.3% two year fixed rate ISA product. As Mrs O wasnt eligible to use 
her 2021/2022 tax free ISA allowance for the product she applied for, Im unable to agree 
that Santander has treated her unfairly in the way it dealt with her complaint. 
Mrs O has told us she hasnt received the refund and compensation offered in Santanders 
final response dated 12 October 2022. If the settlement still hasnt been paid, our 
investigator can liaise with Santander on Mrs Os behalf to make the necessary 
arrangements. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O but as Im satisfied Santander has already agreed a settlement 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman