DRN-3147513
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, who Ill refer to as Mr C and Mrs B, complain that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC required them to complete a tax form unnecessarily and without explanation.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs B, as trustees of a trust, hold a bank account with Barclays. 
In May 2020, Barclays asked Mr C and Mrs B to complete a tax compliance form. They dont 
think that this ought to have been required and are unhappy that the bank didnt explain why 
it was necessary. Theyre also concerned that the bank made a mistake in setting up their 
account as a business account, leading to more onerous reporting requirements.
Barclays says that it requires tax information from its customers in order to meet its legal 
obligations. And it says that Mr C and Mrs Bs account was set up correctly.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. She thought the banks 
request was in line with its legal obligations and said it had now provided a sufficient 
explanation as to why the information was needed. And she didnt think the bank had done 
anything wrong in how it had set up the account.
As Mr C and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Banks have a number of legal and regulatory obligations to fulfil. Barclays has explained the 
legal requirements that led to its request for Mr C and Mrs B to complete the tax form in 
question and I dont think it did anything wrong. In short, the bank needed Mr C and Mrs B to 
confirm information about their residency and citizenship for tax purposes.
When writing to Mr C and Mrs B with a request for them to complete the form, Barclays 
explained that it needed the information in order to comply with its legal obligations. The 
bank also directed them to a dedicated section of its website if they needed more 
information  which gave a more detailed explanation as to the banks obligations, what it 
may require from customers and why.
So while I can understand Mr C and Mrs Bs concerns about being asked for information 
unnecessarily, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in requesting it  or that it needed to 
provide any more information than it did as to its reasons.
I appreciate Mr C and Mrs Bs concerns were exacerbated by the fact that their account was 
set up as a business account  which they were uneasy about and which led them to 
question whether this had meant they were subject to more stringent requirements. But this 
was not the case and the information would always have been required. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman