DRN-2652811
The complaint
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited in 2020. He says it acted 
unfairly by not explaining in writing the reason for increasing his premium at renewal. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them here. As 
the facts arent in dispute, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The pricing details given to us by esure show that Mr C is mistaken in believing that the non-
fault incidents on his driving record were the sole or the major reason for the 37% increase 
in his premium. Mr C finds that hard to accept, as one of esures advisors had told him 
otherwise, in error. As her explanation for the increase was incomplete and misleading, 
esure offered Mr C £25 compensation, which I think was fair. In reality, its standard industry 
practice for insurers to rate many risk factors in deciding on a premium (including non-fault 
incidents) and I think esure has shown thats what happened here. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for esure not to give Mr C the letter he asked for stating that 
the 2020 premium increase was due to the non-fault incidents. Mr C wanted to claim the 
extra sum back as an uninsured loss, but I dont think esure could be expected to provide 
inaccurate information. I dont think it did anything wrong in not stating the effect each rating 
factor (such as non-fault claims) had on the premium either. That would have meant 
disclosing confidential commercial data to Mr C, which esure was entitled to withhold.   
As I dont think esure did anything wrong, I cant uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
