DRN-2901235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the decision by CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV to 
stop offering their personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
The policy was taken out by Mr and Mrs F in 1990. It was an annual policy, so it 
renewed each year. 
The policy was due to renew in May 2020, but in October 2019, CIGNA advised Mr 
and Mrs F that the policy wouldnt be renewed because it had made the decision to 
no longer provide the cover. CIGNA made some suggestions with regards to 
obtaining cover elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs F complained about CIGNAs decision to withdraw cover. They said they 
couldnt obtain the same cover elsewhere, and questioned why CIGNA hadnt 
transferred the policy to another insurer. 
CIGNA didnt change its mind, and explained that it had made the decision to exit the 
personal accident insurance market. It said that it had attempted to move the policies 
to a new insurer, but as this was unsuccessful, it had been left with no choice but to 
advise all policyholders that their cover would end. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs F brought a complaint to this service. They think they 
should receive financial compensation to reflect the fact that they held the policy for 
around 30 years and hadnt made any claims.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought CIGNA was 
entitled to stop offering the policy. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree, and so the matter has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy renews each year, which means that CIGNA is required to provide cover for that 
12-month period. However, the policy says:
we may offer you the chance to renew your policy on the renewal date each year. We 
may not offer renewal in the event of:

an event that prevents us from continuing to provideyour policy.
CIGNA made a commercial decision to withdraw from the personal accident insurance 
market. Im satisfied that meant it was entitled under the policy terms not to offer Mr and 
Mrs F cover at renewal. 
Whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Fs disappointment with this, given that theyd held the 
cover for around 30 years, the decision was one that CIGNA was entitled to make. Its 
decision affected all policyholders, not just Mr and Mrs F. Im therefore satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs F werent treated unfairly by CIGNA.
Mr and Mrs F say they particularly object to CIGNAs statement that it had provided them 
with plenty of notice to find alternative cover, when CIGNA wasnt able to move the policy to 
another insurer. 
CIGNA did explain that it had attempted to move the policies to another insurer, but was 
unsuccessful. Whilst CIGNA couldnt find another insurer who wanted to take over this 
particular policy, there are other insurers that offer their own personal accident policies. Im 
satisfied that the notice period of seven months given by CIGNA to Mr and Mrs F was a 
reasonable timeframe, as it gave them sufficient time to research other personal accident 
policies on the market before their cover with CIGNA came to an end. 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs F havent been able to find comparable cover to this policy, 
however I dont think CIGNA has done anything wrong and so I dont require it to pay Mr and 
Mrs F compensation.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman