DRN-4479047
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) has managed the collection 
of a debt in his name.
What happened
Lowell Portfolio I Limited bought an outstanding debt in Mr Ms name and appointed Lowell 
to manage it on its behalf.
Mr M complained that he only arranged to repay the outstanding debt after receiving a letter 
from Lowell threatening legal action. Mr M later became aware that Lowell could only take 
court action against him if it had a copy of the credit agreement.
Mr M contacted Lowell to establish whether the debt was enforceable and was told that it 
was. However, it then became clear that Lowell could not obtain a copy of the credit 
agreement.
Mr M was unhappy that after agreeing to refund the payments hed made, Lowell 
backtracked.
Lowell offered Mr M £200 to apologise for the misinformation that it had given to him and it 
wrote the outstanding debt off. Lowell would not refund the payments Mr M had made. 
Lowell said it would reconsider its position if Mr M could provide a copy of the letter 
threatening legal action but Mr M no longer has the letter. Lowell says it has no record of the 
letter so cant provide it to Mr M as part of his data subject access request (DSAR).
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. In summary he noted 
that Lowell accepted it gave Mr M the wrong advice about the enforceability of the debt. And 
that it incorrectly told Mr M it would refund the payments made. However, our investigator 
didnt have enough evidence to conclude that Mr M only made the payments to Lowell 
because it wrote to him threatening legal action.
Our investigator told Mr M that this service cant declare a debt to be unenforceable  only a 
court can do that. As Mr M had the benefit of the money lent by the original lender, our 
investigator didnt think it was unfair of Lowell to ask him to repay the debt or to refuse to 
refund the payments Mr M had already made.
Given that Lowell had paid Mr M £200 compensation and had written the remaining debt off,
our investigator didnt ask Lowell to take further action.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He asked whether the investigator had listened to 
the call with Lowell when the repayment plan was first set up. Mr M said that Lowell definitely 
sent him the letter. Mr M thought it was very odd that the letter threatening legal action had 
gone missing.
Mr M asked why he would have contacted Lowell to set up a payment plan if it hadnt sent 
him the letter threatening legal action.
Our investigator went back to Mr M to say that when he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman, Mr M said he had only set up a repayment plan due to the 
threatening letter from Lowell. Our investigator said that if Mr M was saying that Lowell 
threatened him during a call, he would first need to raise this with Lowell.
Our investigator said that Lowells records didnt indicate that it had sent a letter threatening 
legal action. He thought it unlikely that Lowell had removed any reference to the letter from 
its records.
Mr M remained unhappy with the investigation outcome for much the same reasons he had 
already explained to the investigator.
Mr M thought that Lowell had breached rules by withholding data from him.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2023 which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Lowell has done enough to put 
things right. I dont intend repeating all the details the investigator set out in his two 
views but I want to reassure Mr M that Ive taken everything into account when 
reaching my decision.
Lowell has provided a screenshot showing which letters it sent to Mr M. There is no 
record of a letter sent by Lowell threatening legal action. Instead, most of the letters 
relate to various complaints made by Mr M and to his DSAR.
I understand Mr Ms point that he would not have just contacted Lowell to set up the 
repayment plan if hed not received the threatening letter. But Mr M does not have a 
copy of this letter and Lowell has no record of sending it.
I have also listened to the call that Mr M had with Lowell when he set up the 
repayment plan at the end of May 2023. In summary, Mr M calls Lowell to discuss its 
offer to pay him £50 compensation. Mr M confirms that he will accept the offer and 
goes on to say that he is thinking about taking legal action as he was in financial 
difficulties at the time he was offered the credit facility in 2007. The call handler asks 
Mr M what he would like to do about the outstanding balance. After some further 
explanation of his financial situation, Mr M says that with help from a relative, he can 
offer £800 to settle the debt, payable over 10 months. Lowell accepts his offer and Mr 
M makes the first payment over the phone. Lowell says that it will send Mr M 
confirmation of the settlement arrangements by post and confirms that once the 
settlement amount is repaid, the debt will be clear and wont be sold on again.
At no point does Mr M refer to receiving a letter threatening him with legal action and 
Lowell makes no reference to legal action in respect of the debt. The reason for Mr 
Ms call to Lowell is to accept its offer of £50 compensation.
The lack of any record of a letter threatening Mr M with legal action, together with the 
contents of the call setting up the repayment plan, make it difficult for me to find that 
the only reason why Mr M set up the repayment plan was because Lowell sent him a 
letter threatening legal action.Its unfortunate that after acknowledging it couldnt provide a copy of the credit 
agreement, Lowell mistakenly told Mr M that it would look to refund the repayments 
hed made. But I dont think this means Lowell must now agree to refund the money. 
At the end of the day, whether or not a debt is unenforceable, does not mean the 
debt no longer exists. Its just that Lowell wouldnt be able to take legal action to 
recover it. As I dont find that Lowell misled Mr M into setting up the repayment plan, I 
dont require it to refund the money he has paid towards the outstanding debt.
Lowell has paid Mr M £200 to apologise for any incorrect information it gave to him 
as well as not actioning his DSAR back in July 2023. I consider £200 adequately 
reflects the impact of Lowells failings on Mr M  particularly as it has also written the 
debt off. £200 falls towards the top end of an award we might make where the 
businesss mistake has taken a reasonable amount of effort to resolve and has 
impacted the consumer over weeks.
Finally, I want to make it clear that I have not considered Mr Ms more recent 
complaint about Lowells failure to provide every piece of data in response to his 
DSAR as Lowell is still investigating this complaint.
Further submissions
Lowell confirmed that it had nothing to add to my provisional decision. Mr M responded to 
say that some of the comments I had made were fair but that he would provide further 
evidence shortly. Mr M said that he would be lodging a complaint with the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) as his complaint about the DSAR had gone missing. 
Mr M followed up with some further information about the ICO and confirmed he had raised 
a complaint with the Financial Ombudsman about Lowells response to his DSAR.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr M for his comments about the DSAR. As I said in my provisional decision, I 
have not considered Mr Ms complaint about Lowells response to his DSAR which is being 
dealt with separately by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
As Mr M hasnt asked me to consider any additional information specific to his complaint 
about the collection of the debt, and as Lowell has not made any further comment, I consider 
it fair to make my final decision along the same lines as my provisional decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider Lowell has 
already done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman