DRN-1597483
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that SLL Capital Limited won't remove a default that it recorded on his credit 
file.
What happened
SLL Capital purchased a fixed sum loan from the original lender. The loan was in Mr D's 
name and the balance outstanding was £1,312.50. SLL Capital sent Mr D a default notice at 
the end of February 2018 and, when Mr D didn't reply, it recorded a default on Mr D's credit 
file. SLL Capital backdated the default to December 2015 - to reflect when Mr D effectively 
defaulted on his agreement, because he was three months in arrears.
Mr D says he became aware of the default when he tried to apply for a mortgage. He says 
the loan was fraudulently taken out in his name. He says SLL Capital didn't follow the 
required procedure before registering the default and he wants it removed from his credit file.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
that the default marker had been correctly applied.
Mr D didn't agree. He said, in summary, that he has never missed any payments on any 
lending, and he and his business are financially sound. He explained the impact the default 
marker is having on him and, in particular, on his business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says the debt isn't his and that the loan was fraudulently taken out in his name. 
The original lender investigated, but concluded that the loan wasn't fraudulent. Mr D was 
made aware of the outcome of this investigation in December 2016 and he doesn't seem to 
have communicated any further on the matter - until 2019 when he realised there was a 
default on his credit file. I've not seen anything to persuade me that the debt is not his.
Our investigator has already explained why the default was recorded correctly. And I agree. 
SLL Capital sent a notice of assignment to Mr D to tell him that it had purchased the loan 
from the original lender and it sent him a default notice. The letters were 
correctly addressed. And Mr D received the notice of assignment because he contacted 
SLL Capital to dispute the debt. So I've no reason to believe he didn't receive the default 
notice. Mr D didn't respond to the default notice by the required date, so 
SLL Capital recorded a default on his credit file. This was backdated to December 2015 - 
when the loan was three months in arrears. I agree with our investigator that this is fair - and, 
as a marker remains on a credit file for six years, means the marker will be removed earlier 
that it would have been if SLL Capital hadn't backdated it.
I don't underestimate the impact the default is having on Mr D - he's explained that a mortgage application was unsuccessful, and he's worried about the impact on his business. I 
am not unsympathetic to the position in which he finds himself. But, for the reasons I've 
explained, I don't find the default was recorded incorrectly, so I can't order SLL Capital to 
remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman