DRN-2598183
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as J have complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited
hasnt offered them enough when settling a claim under their commercial vehicle insurance
policy. Mr S, director of J, has complained on Js behalf.
What happened
J claimed on their policy after their car was stolen. Markerstudy looked into the claim and
Mr S said hed paid £21,000 for the car, including VAT. He said this was below market value
due to the high mileage and that it needed some repairs carrying out, which Mr S had been
able to do himself shortly after buying the car. Markerstudy agreed a value with Mr S of
£21,206 plus VAT.
Markerstudy said it then found that Mr S had given the incorrect value when buying the
policy, hed said it was worth £18,000 rather than £21,000. It said this meant J had
benefitted from a cheaper premium than they would have done if hed given the correct
value. As J had paid 10% less than they should have done for the policy, Markerstudy 
reduced the settlement amount by 10%.
Mr S complained to Markerstudy as he didnt think this was enough to buy a replacement
vehicle. Mr S said the value hed given didnt include VAT, as VAT wasnt of value to a
business. So, he thought the value was the amount hed paid before VAT. Mr S was also
unhappy with the time Markerstudy had taken to settle the claim, particularly because of the
work he needed to do which was vital during the pandemic.
Markerstudy increased the valuation of the car to £22,200 plus VAT to reflect the top price
within the trade guides it had used to value the car. It also accepted there had been some
delays and offered J £150 compensation for that.
Mr S still didnt think this was enough to replace his car and brought his complaint to us. He
provided adverts to show he wasnt able to replace his car for the amount Markerstudy had
paid him.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 January 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Js policy say that if the car is lost the most Markerstudy will pay
is its market value. It defines this as the cost of replacing one of the same or a similar make,
model, year, mileage and condition which applied immediately before the loss.
We dont value cars, instead we look to see that an insurer has done so fairly and
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. In this case Markerstudy
used relevant trade guides to produce a valuation. We generally [find] that a fair and
reasonable way of producing a valuation as the guides take account of likely selling figures
across the country. I find these more persuasive than the adverts Mr S provided, as they
take account of negotiation.
Ive checked the same guides as Markerstudy and Markerstudy offered the higher value of
those two guides. Ive also checked another guide. While this guide gave a higher value of
£24,404, the amount Markerstudy offered was still in the range of the values given by the
guides, so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to require it to increase the valuation.
When buying the policy on Js behalf, under the Insurance Act 2015 Mr S had a
responsibility to make a fair presentation of the risk. And if he didnt do that, Markerstudy can
only take action if it can show he made whats known as a qualifying breach.
Mr S bought Js policy through a broker. Ive listened to the call and the broker asked what
the value of the vehicle is. Mr S said hes paying £18,000 for it. A short while later, part of the
call became unintelligible, but I didnt hear anything in the call where Mr S mentioned VAT.
Ive also seen the Statement of Fact which shows the value of the car as £18,000 and the
purchase price of the car as £18,000.
Mr S said he paid £21,000 which was below the market value. He said hed said it was worth
£18,000 because that was the amount without VAT.
While Mr S said VAT doesnt have value to a business, J wasnt VAT registered at the time
Mr S bought the policy which means the cost of the car included VAT. So, I dont think he
gave the correct purchase price. J also wasnt VAT registered when Markerstudy paid the
settlement, which included VAT. I havent seen anything to indicate Mr S doesnt think he
should have received VAT as part of the settlement. So, I think he knew the value of the car
was more than £18,000 as he expected Markerstudy to pay the VAT in the event of a claim.
As such, I dont think Mr S made a fair presentation of the risk when saying the value of the
car was £18,000.
For this to become a qualifying breach, Markerstudy needs to show that it would have not
sold J the policy, or would have done so on different terms.
Markerstudy has shown that if Mr S had made a fair presentation of the risk and given the
correct value when buying his car, it would have charged him 10% more for his policy. This
means hes made a qualifying breach. Under the Act this means that Markerstudy can
proportionately reduce the settlement by the percentage he underpaid for his policy. As Mr S
paid 10% less than he should have done, its fair and reasonable that Markerstudy reduced
his settlement by 10%.
Mr S also said that hed now become VAT registered and it was because he knew that would
happen that he didnt think the VAT had a value. However, if that was the case then
Markerstudy wouldnt have needed to pay J the VAT when settling the claim, as he would
have been able to claim the VAT back. Also, as J hadnt replaced the car before becoming
VAT registered, then in effect they will still have benefitted overall. I say that because while
the settlement was reduced by 10%, theyll likely be able to recover 20% VAT from the new
car. However, even if J cant recover the VAT on a new car, I still dont think Markerstudy
has acted unreasonably in how it settled the claim.
Neither J nor Markerstudy responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither J nor Markerstudy responded, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman