DRN-2806080
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) handled his claim under his 
caravan holiday home and lodge insurance for damage caused during an attempted break 
in. He complains that AXAs settlement offer doesnt cover his loss.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his policy after he found that his caravan and storage shed had 
been damaged during a break-in. AXA appointed a surveyor who reported that some of the 
damage was due to wear and tear, but there was clear evidence of recent damage to the 
exterior panels and the shed. Over the following weeks, Mr B contacted AXA on several 
occasions to challenge its handling of his claim. He complained that AXA:
didnt ask him for a crime reference number (CRN) when he first reported his claim;
handled his claim unprofessionally;
delayed his claim unnecessarily;
didnt pay enough to settle his claim;
declined cover for the window and door, and
caused him to incur additional rental costs and loss of value.
AXA paid £100 for its error regarding the CRN during the first call when Mr B notified it of his 
loss, and a further £250 compensation in recognition of the overall experience. But AXA felt 
its cash settlement offer of over £4000 for the repairs to the caravan, and over £500 for the 
storage shed, was reasonable. Mr B didnt think its offer was enough, but he didnt provide 
any evidence to show why.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought AXA had made a fair offer to settle 
the claim and the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree. He remained unhappy about all aspects of his complaint and wanted a 
further review. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Both 
parties are aware of the details of the complaint, so rather than repeating the information 
here, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Crime reference number (CRN)
Mr B complained that AXA didnt ask for a CRN when he first made his claim for the 
attempted break-in. AXA investigated and agreed. While the policy says AXA will require a 
CRN, theres no dispute that Mr B wasnt asked for it until later in the claim. In recognition of 
its mistake, AXA paid Mr B £100. As the claim was accepted anyway, I dont think the delay 
in asking for the CRN caused Mr B any loss. Therefore, I think AXAs payment was more 
than fair for this shortfall and no further action is warranted.
Unnecessary delays
AXA investigated Mr Bs complaint about the delays relating to his claim. It acknowledged 
that there were times when he had to chase updates and was kept waiting on the phone for 
a long time on a few occasions. AXA apologised to Mr B for not managing his claim or 
expectations as well as it ought to have done and paid him £250 for the inconvenience and 
distress caused. I think its helpful that AXA acknowledged its shortfalls in handling Mr Bs 
claim and, having reviewed the evidence, I can see that he wouldve been inconvenienced 
on occasion because of the delays. But Im satisfied that AXA has fairly compensated Mr B 
for the distress and inconvenience, so I wont be asking it to make a further payment in 
relation to the delays.
Claim handling
Ive looked at the reasons Mr B gave to support his view that AXA didnt handle his claim 
professionally:
he doubts the repairers had any expertise; 
they didnt go inside his caravan to inspect the damaged window latch;
the repairer was late and arrived in a manner unsuitable for work, and
AXA implied Mr B had lied about his claim.
Mr B hasnt provided any evidence to support his view about AXAs professionalism, beyond 
his opinion of whether the repairer was fit for work and the fact that they didnt go inside the 
caravan. However, as the break-in was unsuccessful, there wouldve been no reason for the 
repairer to go inside. Any damage caused wouldve been on the exterior panels, so I cant 
agree that this should be classed as unprofessional.
AXA has already apologised for its delays and paid £250, so Im satisfied that Mr B has been 
compensated fairly for any late arrival to appointments. Having looked at the evidence, its 
clear that on several occasions Mr B expressed concern that AXA and its representatives 
suggested he was lying. While I understand that the repairer didnt give Mr B the response 
he wanted about the cause of the damage, and AXA didnt accept all of his claim, I cant 
fairly conclude that it means AXA and its representatives were unprofessional.
Declined cover
Mr B provided evidence which suggested the window and door were covered for the 
damage. In reaching my decision, Ive considered all reports provided relating to the 
damage. Mr Bs letter does refer to damage to the window and door, but I dont agree that it 
says the damage is covered under the policy. AXA recorded all damage visible on the 
caravan for completeness, but only some of the damage could be attributed to an attempted 
break-in. Some of the damage was deemed to be wear and tear, which is not covered under 
the policy. For example, some of the damage was a long scratch, free of dirt, which was in 
keeping with damage seen after an attempted break-in. Whereas other damage was 
consistent with everyday wear and tear. Im satisfied that AXAs report gave a reasonable 
explanation for excluding some damage, therefore I consider it appropriate to rely on it as an 
expert opinion.
The only damage AXA identified on the window and door was consistent with wear and tear. 
Mr B says the hole where the latch was broken inside the window cant be wear and tear. 
But, as the break-in was unsuccessful, I cant fairly conclude that interior damage is an 
insured loss. 
Overall, I think AXA has accepted parts of the claim and given reasonable explanations for 
deciding to decline other parts. I wont be asking AXA to do any more here.Cash settlement
AXA offered Mr B a cash settlement rather than a repair because he wasnt happy with its 
contractors. Mr B says the offer isnt enough to cover the cost of the work. However, he 
hasnt provided any evidence to show that the work will cost more than AXA is offering, 
despite it offering to consider any quotes he chooses to provide. I note that AXA did increase 
its offer for the cost of damage to the storage shed from £200 to over £500. This indicates to 
me that AXA has listened to Mr Bs concerns and, where appropriate, increased its offer. In 
the absence of any evidence to support higher repair costs for the damage covered under 
the policy, Im persuaded that AXA has made a fair offer to settle Mr Bs claim. I see no 
reason to ask AXA to increase its settlement offer.
Rental costs and loss of value
Mr B says that because of AXAs delays, he lost the buyer for his caravan. So he has 
incurred additional rental costs and his caravan has gone down in value. There will always 
be some delay in settling claims of this nature, but I dont think there has been an excessive 
delay here. AXA inspected the damage; made a cash settlement offer for both caravan and 
storage shed; compensated Mr B for its service shortfalls, and issued its final view, all within 
eight weeks of making his claim. AXA is only responsible for settling the claim for damage 
covered under the policy. If a buyer was put off because of the damage, I cant fairly hold 
AXA responsible for that. Therefore, the resulting rental cost and loss of value are not 
something I can ask AXA to cover under the policy.
In summary, I can see that Mr B mustve experienced inconvenience as a result of the 
attempted break-in to his caravan, and Im sorry about that. But I think AXA has declined 
parts of his claim fairly in line with the terms of the policy and offered a fair settlement for the 
damage which was covered based on the evidence available. I think it has generously 
compensated Mr B for the service shortfalls identified, so I see no reason to require AXA to 
do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman