DRN-1304769
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) when 
they sent him a replacement debit card for his account.
What happened
Mr M says on 6 May 2019 a Barclays agent, via a live chat, told him that most likely he 
received a replacement debit card for his account because his debit card details had been 
compromised, and that to reduce fraud a new card has been sent. So, on 6 May 2019, Mr M 
raised a concern with Barclays asking why he wasnt notified of this development on his 
account. He also asked Barclays for details on how his debit card had been compromised.
On 29 June 2019, Barclays issued a letter to Mr M. In this letter they explained that on 
6 May 2019, Mr M was correctly informed that his debit card was replaced because they 
were concerned that the card details were potentially compromised. Barclays say this 
decision was based on their transaction monitoring systems. In the letter they explain that 
they dont elaborate on reasons why a card was reissued because their fraud prevention 
strategies are kept confidential in order to prevent circumvention by fraudsters. They say 
their usual process is to send an SMS alerts to customers who will be receiving a 
replacement card, and that they were sorry this didnt happen in Mr Ms case. The letter 
goes on to say that replacement of the card is covered by the terms and conditions of Mr Ms 
account, so there has been no error on their part when they sent out the new card. But they 
recognised there has been a failure in terms of the customer service, so they credited Mr Ms 
account with £100 compensation. 
Mr M says he received a text message, on 29 June 2019, notifying him that Barclays have 
written to him, but he never received that letter. So, on 18 July 2019, he wrote to Barclays 
and said that he received the £100, but that he didnt know the outcome of their investigation 
into his complaint as Barclays hadnt written to him. He also requested that the outcome 
letter be sent to him. 
On 20 July 2019, Barclays replied to Mr M and said that his complaint has been resolved 
and that a letter was issued to him on 29 Jun 2019. The response goes on to say that as he 
has not received the letter and is not happy with the resolution given, he could contact the 
complaints team on the provided telephone number.  
Mr M says he couldnt get a hold of anybody on the provided telephone number, so he 
referred his complaint to our service. He said he would like Barclays to send him the final 
response letter and pay him a further £30 compensation.
Our investigator was of the opinion that Barclays was within their right to replace Mr Ms 
debit card and felt the £100 paid to Mr M was a fair resolution to his complaint. The 
investigator also sent Mr M a copy of the final response letter. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator as he thinks Barclays shouldve done more in this 
situation, and he thinks they should pay him a further £30 to £50 compensation in addition to 
the £100 already paid. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The banking system uses various criteria and information to recognise unusual activity to 
determine if there is a risk that a card or an account has been compromised. Banks dont tell 
customers what these criteria or sources are as this might compromise their ability to 
prevent fraud and protect their customers. This means, at times, if a bank thinks a card has 
been compromised it will take the decision to issue a replacement. Also the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ms account allows Barclays to send a replacement card to help keep his 
account secure. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to issue a replacement 
card when it suspected that Mr Ms debit card had been compromised. 
On 29 June 2019, Barclays sent a letter to Mr M apologising for the length of time it has 
taken them to respond and for not informing him that a replacement card was send to him. In 
this letter they also explained why a replacement card was sent and credited his account 
with £100 by way of an apology. Mr M says he didnt receive this letter, but based on the 
copy of the letter provided by Barclays I can see that his correct address was on the letter. 
So most likely Barclays sent it to the correct address, and I don't think it would be fair to hold 
them responsible for a letter that may have been lost in the post.
Mr M says they shouldve done more in this situation, and he feels that Barclays should pay 
him a further £30 to £50 compensation. He thinks Barclays shouldve re-issued the letter 
when he informed them that he still hadnt received it.  
I can understand why Mr M would be frustrated as he wanted to know the exact reason why 
a replacement card was sent to him, but I can see that Barclays on 20 July 2019 did provide 
him with a telephone number for their complaints team. So, if Mr M was concerned and 
wanted to find out more, he couldve called that number. Mr M mentioned that he couldnt 
get a hold of anybody on the provided telephone number, but Ive not seen any evidence of 
this, and the number provided is a valid Barclays telephone number. Also I think that the 
£100 compensation Barclays paid Mr M is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
that has been caused.
So whilst I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I think the 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of his complaint.
Mr M has said that on another complaint with Barclays, under a different reference with 
them, he is also waiting for a final response letter. Ive only considered the actions of 
Barclays in this complaint. If Mr M would like the other issues looked into, he will need to 
raise this as a sperate complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman