DRN-3832888
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Around the same time, Mr R sought advice. He was introduced to NTM by another adviser. 
NTM completed a financial planning questionnaire with Mr R to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things, this recorded that he was 47; he was 
divorced with one non-dependent children; he worked full-time and earned around £32,000; 
he owned his own home outright; he had one small loan; he had around £26,000 in cash 
assets; he had an outstanding mortgage on his home of around £49,000 and his income 
broadly matched his expenditure, so there was no surplus to speak of. NTM also carried out 
an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which after further discussion was deemed to be 
balanced.
On 13 October 2017, NTM issued a suitability letter setting out its recommendation. NTM 
summarised Mr Rs objectives of wanting to retire at 57 and that he was unhappy about the 
prospect of moving to the PPF, which would result in reduced benefits and a loss of choice 
and flexibility. It said Mr R felt let down and so he wanted to take control of his pension.
In summary, NTM recommended that Mr R transfer his pension to provide him with the 
control he desired, to provide flexibility in retirement so he could fashion his income to meet 
his target, to provide a higher level of tax-free cash, to provide better lump sum death 
benefits and to meet Mr Rs objective of wanting to break ties with his employer.
Mr R accepted the recommendation and some time afterwards around £327,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
Mr R complained to NTM in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said a 
transfer to a personal pension arrangement should not have been recommended as it was 
highly unlikely the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 would be matched through a 
personal pension.
NTM didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In addition to setting out a timeline of the events 
leading up to the time to choose exercise, Mr Rs interactions with NTM and his objectives 
at the time, in summary it said, the advice it gave to Mr R gave him the best opportunity to 
meet his objectives. It said it wasnt possible to provide the security of a guaranteed pension 
and meet his objectives. It said the BSPS2 offered less attractive benefits than the PPF 
based on his objectives, so this excluded it as a suitable approach. It said because a transfer 
could achieve what Mr R wanted, it concluded the advice was suitable.
Dissatisfied with its response, using the services of a representative Mr R referred his 
complaint to us. Mr R said he now believes the advice he received was flawed and as a 
result he believes hes suffered a loss.
An investigator upheld the complaint and required NTM to pay compensation. In summary 
they said the advice wasnt suitable. They said the growth rate required to match Mr Rs DB 
benefits wasnt reasonably achievable based on his balanced attitude to risk, so the transfer 
wasnt financially viable. They said there was nothing to indicate Mr R needed flexibility; 
death benefits wasnt a suitable reason to transfer; and they didnt think NTM had given a 
balanced view of the BSPS2 or the PPF. They said if suitable advice had been given, Mr R 
wouldve chosen to transfer his benefits to the BSPS2.
Mr Rs representative accepted the investigators conclusions, but clarified that the 
retirement age for the loss calculation should be 65. And they didnt think the proposed 15% 
deduction from any redress payable to take into account the tax Mr R would've paid had this 
been taken as income, was fair. They said it doesn't account for the charges that would've 
been deducted from the fund value over that time.
NTM replied and indicated that, while it wasnt an admission of liability, it was prepared to try 
and carry out a redress calculation to determine any loss. But it said it needed some 
information from Mr R to carry this out. The investigator said NTM should approach 
Mr R direct for this information. 
Because no offer has been forthcoming, the complaint was referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report that NTM was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Rs pension fund would need to 
grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
12.97% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
55. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 10.02%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 55 the critical yield was 8.37% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 7.59%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point NTM instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr R, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And NTM didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed have 
been due under the BSPS2, even though it knew the details would shortly be 
available. I think it shouldve waited for this and carried out the appropriate analysis 
at this point.
In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 55 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr R indicated that he wanted to retire about 57 and so this is what the 
advice was predicated on, I also think NTM shouldve produced critical yield figures 
based on a retirement age of 57. I think this wouldve been more meaningful and relevant to Mr R. NTM says the early retirement factor information wasnt available  
but if it had waited for the BSPS2 details as I think it ought to have done, it wouldve 
been possible for NTM to produce this analysis at this time.
Given Mr Rs recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 3.4% for seven 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr R was 
always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 55, of a lower value that those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. And I dont think the position wouldve been any 
different based on a retirement age of 57  I think the critical yields wouldve still 
been above the regulators middle projection rate. To have come anywhere close to 
achieving the kind of returns needed, it wouldve required Mr R to take on more 
investment risk than he was prepared to take.
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was 
in Mr Rs best interests.
NTM recorded that Mr R wanted to retire at about 57 and that a personal pension 
would provide flexibility in retirement so he could fashion his income to meet his 
need. While at 47, Mr R might have given some thought to his future retirement, NTM 
recorded that the target age of 57 was based on the earliest age legislation allowed. 
The advice paperwork also says Mr R would likely retire at the best time for him and 
the value of his benefits. And a meeting file note records that, when NTM asked Mr R 
why it was important to retire early, he couldnt give a specific reason. So theres 
nothing to indicate Mr R had anything that could be described as a firm retirement 
plan.
Mr R didnt have to transfer his pension to retire early - he already had this option
available to him. While he couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly, nothing 
indicates he had a need to vary his income throughout retirement. And while Mr R 
indicated that being able to take a lump sum and delay an income would be 
important if he needed to support his daughter and he wanted to continue working, 
he didnt know this for certain at the time. So I dont think there was a strong need for 
him to access a lump sum and defer taking an income.
NTM also recommended the transfer to provide a higher level of tax-free cash. But 
Mr R said that it was too early to be specific about his wishes  so theres nothing to 
suggest that the lump sum available through the DB scheme wouldnt have met 
Mr Rs future needs. 
Mr R might have been attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided  but 
given he had no apparent need for it, I think NTMs reference to this was simply a 
feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather than a genuine 
objective of Mr Rs.
Mr R already had a degree of flexibility in any event. He was contributing to his 
workplace pension scheme  a defined-contribution scheme which provided flexibility 
in how and when he could access his benefits. While Mr Rs contribution level to this 
wasnt recorded, I think this couldve given him the flexibility to retire earlier than his 
schemes normal retirement age - if thats what he ultimately decided.
Mr R said he would like an income of £1,900 a month (net) and that he wouldnt want 
to go below £1,600 a month. But I dont think Mr R reasonably knew what his income need in retirement would be at this time. It strikes me he gave this figure because this 
was broadly the amount he was currently spending each month. NTM doesnt appear 
to have helped Mr R by carrying out a detailed income and expenditure in retirement 
analysis or challenged this amount it just appears to have accepted what Mr R said. 
I dont think this was a realistic target income based on a retirement age of 57  
Mr Rs DB scheme full pension at 65 was around £20,000 a year and less if he chose 
to take a cash lump sum. I think NTM shouldve managed Mr Rs expectations and 
been honest with him that this wasnt going to be achievable. And just because his 
DB scheme couldnt meet this target amount, I dont think it was in his best interests 
to transfer out, particularly when NTM didnt demonstrate to Mr R that he could 
sustainably meet his target income from age 57 by transferring to a personal 
pension.
NTM recorded that, due to a change in his personal circumstances, Mr R no longer 
required any spousal benefit from his pension benefits and that the death benefits 
offered by a personal pension offered his family a much higher degree of protection 
and choice concerning how the benefits will be paid. But the priority here was to 
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement. And while I can see the adviser 
said as much based on whats recorded in their follow up meeting note, they 
recommended the transfer anyway citing better death benefits as a reason.
I accept the existing scheme didnt provide death benefits to unmarried partners  but 
its possible that Mr R might get married again in the future, in which case the 
spouses pension couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by the income Mr R drew in his lifetime. And so may not have provided 
the legacy that Mr R may have thought it would. 
If Mr R had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, NTM couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. Reference was made to a whole of life policy for a sum 
assured for the amount of the transfer value, which was discounted on cost. But I 
dont think this was a fair and balanced way to present this option to Mr R  it 
shouldve been based on what amount he wanted to leave to his family instead. 
Afterall Mr R wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension upon his death, 
which was likely to be a lot lower than the original transfer value amount, particularly 
if he lived a long life and/or investment returns were lower than expected. And this 
couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was 
likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence NTM did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. 
And ultimately NTM should not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for 
alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. 
Mr R may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF and that he wanted to break all ties 
with them. But it was NTMs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of 
the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the 
PPF still provided Mr R with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr R was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the 
PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought. Also, Mr R wasnt going to break 
ties with his employer by transferring because he was connected to them in other 
ways  he intended to continue his employment and he was contributing to the new 
workplace pension scheme for example. So I dont think any concerns he held about 
this meant that transferring was in his best interest. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Rs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time, particularly when he 
had the option of opting into the BSPS2. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr R wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme  he 
had little investment knowledge or experience and nothing suggests to me that he had the 
requisite confidence or skill to do so. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice 
Mr R received from NTM was unsuitable for him.
I've thought about Mr R's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr R would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr R 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr R for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr R. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
NTM  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr R. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr R is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance to him and 
hes concerned that hell lose out in retirement, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him 
distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the NTM to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what NTM based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Mr R should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that Mr Rs would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 
25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed 
according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr R the balance.
NTM Financial Services Ltd should also pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman