DRN-3866401
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a Conditional Sale 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (CBL). 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In February 2022, Mr B acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with CBL. 
The car was about 16 years old and had travelled 142,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr 
B. The cash price of the car was £6,499. Mr B paid a deposit of £2,000 which meant the total 
amount financed on this agreement was £4,499 payable over 48 Months.
Mr B said that in April 2022 his car broke down and was told by the recovering engineer 
there was no fuel pressure. Mr B said there were a number of problems with the car when he 
collected it, and so didnt think the dealer carried out the appropriate checks before 
supplying it to him. Below is a summary of the issues complained of by Mr B:
Rear reflector broken
Cosmetic scratches not repaired properly
Vehicle dirty and not valeted
CD player not working
Phone system not working
Satnav not working
Fuel pump pressure issue
Sunroof faulty
Mr B also provided a receipt for £108, dated 7 April 2022, for replacement track rod ends, 
which he said he paid for.
Mr B complained to CBL about the issues with his car. He said its been off the road since 
April 2022. To settle the complaint, Mr B said he wants to be able to reject the car, get his 
deposit back along with all payments made towards the car and reimbursements for any 
arrears. Mr B said he also wanted the difference in any value so he could purchase the 
same car again.
CBL arranged for an independent inspection of Mr Bs car which was carried out in April 
2022. The independent inspection report made the following comments:
The ignition turned on, but the engine wouldnt start
A diagnostic scan revealed no fault codes
Bonnet wouldnt stay up
The offside rear reflector was broken
Phone connection and CD player didnt work
No evidence of any leakage around the sunroof
The report concluded that the car wasnt fit for purpose because it wouldnt start, however, it 
said further examination was required to identify the cause of the issues and to determine 
whether the issues were underlying or of a premature nature.
CBL arranged for a further investigation of the car which found that the fuel tank needed to 
be replaced. However, on 29 June 2022 it was confirmed by the independent inspection 
engineer that considering the mileage elapsed since the point of sale, and the issue with the 
fuel pressure, the car was not considered to be durable.
CBL didnt provide Mr B with a final response, so he brought his complaint to our service for 
investigation. Our investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
However, our investigator recommended a repair as the fairest option. Our investigator also 
recommended CBL should refund rentals for the period Mr B wasnt able to use the car and 
pay him £200 in compensation. Mr B accepted the investigators view but wanted receipts 
and a further inspection to ensure the car was repaired adequately. Mr B also provided a 
video of damage caused to his driveway whilst his car was being collected for repair and 
obtained a quote for £2,800 to repair the damage, which he wanted CBL to pay for. Mr B 
also asked that the car be returned with a full years MOT, considering the length of time the 
car had been off the road.
Our investigator amended their view to recommend CBL pay for an MOT and to contribute 
20% towards the repair of the driveway or pay the excess if Mr B makes an insurance claim.
CBL responded, to say they repaired the mechanical issues, and would pay for the MOT and 
compensation as recommended. However, they asked that Mr B collect the car to arrange 
the MOT. They also agreed to contribute towards the driveway repairs. CBL also advised 
that Mr Bs car doesnt come with a workable phone system and had a CD jammed in it, 
which suggested it may not have been inherently faulty. CBL asked that the car be collected 
by Mr B and a third-party garage quote for the remaining issues.
In October 2022 Mr B agreed to collect the car, however, he advised he wasnt happy with 
the repairs and provided a video of smoke coming from the rear of it. Mr B asked that the car 
be returned and rejected. On 26 October 2022 Mr B confirmed the car had been collected by 
the dealer.
In November 2022 our investigator issued a revised view in which he recommended the 
following:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing more to pay
arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr B
refund Mr Bs deposit of £2,000
pay a refund of rentals as directed in my findings to cover any loss of use of the car 
because of the inherent quality issues.
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
pay a further amount of £400 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods. 
contribute 20% towards the cost of the repairs to Mr Bs driveway.CBL arranged a further inspection of the car to determine if a rejection was the fairest 
approach. The inspection report concluded there were no faults with the car at the point of 
repair. As such our investigator issued a further view recommending CBL refund rentals from 
April 2022 to October 2022, pay £300 in compensation, 20% towards the driveway damage 
and pay for the renewal of the MOT.
Mr B responded to say he still wanted a rejection and asked that the case be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
Mr B told our investigator that CBL credited his account with £1,292.56 but gave no 
explanation or breakdown for the credit.
Mr B also told us in February 2023 that he voluntarily terminated his agreement having 
received a default notice for the abandonment of his car. Mr B said he left his car with the 
dealership because the MOT had lapsed, and the complaint remained unresolved.
I sent Mr B and CBL my provisional decision on 30 March 2023. I explained why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. The key parts of my provisional findings are copied below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history.
 
Here, the car was acquired used, with a cash price of around £6,499 and with 142,000 miles. 
So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be less 
than that of a brand new car, and that its likely to have some signs of wear and tear and 
require care or maintenance sooner than if it was less road worn.From the information provided Im persuaded that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from the first independent inspection report which concluded that the car was not fit 
for purpose because it wouldnt start. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive considered 
whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Satisfactory quality
Mr B acquired the car in February 2022, and within two months the car had broken down. 
The independent inspection report that was completed on 20 April 2022 confirmed some of 
the issues that was raised by Mr B, however, most notably that the engine wouldnt start. 
The mileage recorded on the inspection report was 143,556, which meant within the two 
months since being supplied the car Mr B had travelled about 1,500 miles. 
The report advised it wasnt able to determine the root cause of the non-starting issue to say 
whether the problem was underlying or developing. However, all things considered Im not 
persuaded the car was suitably durable, considering there appears to have been significant 
engine failure within two months since the car was supplied to Mr B. And In the absence of 
misuse of the car (or some other factor like accident damage) I think a reasonable person 
would consider this to be unacceptable. So, in the circumstances Im persuaded the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B.
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform. One of those remedies is the right to a repair. 
In an email dated 22 July 2022 the repairing garage confirmed the starting issue had been 
repaired and that the car was ready for collection. However, when Mr B collected the car in 
October 2022, he reported smoke coming from the exhaust and provided a video as 
evidence. 
Although a second independent inspection report, carried out in December 2022 determined 
that there were no faults with the car, I think there was some confusion over whether there 
were further repairs carried out after Mr B returned the car in October 2022 due to the black 
smoke coming from the exhaust. 
Mr B confirmed to our investigator that he collected the car on 24 October 2022, following 
the initial repairs. He also told us on the same day he noticed the smoke, and so the car was 
collected again two days later on 26 October 2022.
On 17 November 2022 Mr B told our investigator that the dealer called him to say the car 
had been fixed and was ready for collection. And an email from the dealer on the same date 
advised that the car should be collected to avoid storage fees. This suggests to me that 
further repairs were carried out on the car.
However, on 25 November 2022 CBL emailed our investigator to say the dealer believed 
there were no issues with the car and so arranged a further independent inspection which 
took place on 6 December 2022 confirming no faults were found. 
In addition, CBL hasnt provided any evidence of the repairs that were carried out, for 
example in the form of invoices, diagnostics or receipts.
The CRA says that if the consumer requires a repair, the business must do so within a 
reasonable time, and without significant inconvenience to the consumer. Inconsideration that 
Mr B acquired the car in February 2022, reported the problems in April 2022 and was still 
experiencing issues in October 2022 following repairs that were supposed to be carried out in July 2022, Im persuaded that the delays were unreasonable in the circumstances. In 
addition, from the evidence provided, Im also persuaded that the first repair hadnt 
successfully fixed the problem.
I also acknowledge that this whole situation has led to Mr B losing confidence in the car and 
paying to have it voluntarily terminated. Mr B said he was required to pay CBL £696.16 to 
terminate the agreement. This was following CBL determining that Mr B had abandoned the 
car and issuing him with a default notice, after hed refused to collect it from the dealership. 
All things considered, in the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B and that the initial repair attempt failed. 
Im also persuaded that the timescales for repair have caused significant inconvenience to 
Mr B. 
Putting things right.
Having considered the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B, and an 
initial attempt at repair had failed, CBL will have to put things right.
Mr B said that hes left the car with the dealership, and voluntarily terminated his agreement 
with CBL. Ive seen no confirmation of this from CBL, however Im persuaded by what Mr B 
has told us and by the supporting evidence on file. 
As Ive considered that the dealership has possession of the car, Ill be instructing CBL to put 
Mr B in the position had the car been rejected. In addition, as the agreement has already 
ended, Ill be instructing CBL to refund to Mr B any amounts hes paid CBL to have the car 
voluntarily terminated. Mr B told us this was £696.16.
CBL should also refund to Mr B, the deposit he paid on the agreement and all monthly 
repayments hes made on the agreement from April 2022 to cover his loss of use, when the 
engine issue was confirmed through the first independent inspection report. 
Mr B provided a receipt for £108, dated 7 April 2022, for replacement track rods. CBL should 
refund this to Mr B also.
Mr B provided video evidence of damage to his driveway when the car was being collected 
for repair. Our investigator recommended that CBL should contribute 20% to the repairs 
which they agreed to do. However, in the circumstances I think CBL should contribute more. 
The repair quotation was £2,800. So, if CBL contributed 20% this would leave £2,240 for Mr 
B to pay. Considering this was not something Mr B had planned to do, I think £2,240 is a 
significant amount to pay out as a result of what appears to be a mistake by the collecting 
agent representing the dealership. I recognise however that the quotation is likely to include 
a full resurface of the driveway, so in the circumstances, Im persuaded that 50% is a fairer 
contribution for CBL to make. So, Ill be instructing them to pay this amount to Mr B, in lieu of 
the repairs being carried out.
Mr B has described the impact this whole situation has had on him, and the inconvenience 
caused. For example, impacting his work. In the circumstances I think £400 is fair to 
recognise this. So, Ill be instructing CBL to pay this to Mr B in compensation.
In an email to our investigator dated 20 December 2022, Mr B said he received a payment 
from CBL for £1,292.56. However, Mr B said hes not received any information about the 
payment. CBL has neither informed our investigator about any payments theyve made to Mr 
B in relation to this complaint. So, in the circumstances, Ive not taken into consideration the 
payment Mr B says hes already received from CBL. If its confirmed that CBL made this award in relation to this complaint, CBL should make the necessary deductions from any 
award Ive made in this provisional decision.
I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
Mr B responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. However, CBL responded to 
say that they didnt agree with it. CBL made some further comments which Ill address 
below. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CBL made the following points to my provisional decision:
1. The smoke shown in the videos are inconsistent and doesnt prove that a fault exists, 
and the job sheet confirms repairs were carried out on 20 July 2022
The above is not exhaustive, but a summary of what I considered to be the main points 
raised in CBLs response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all the 
information provided by both parties in relation to this complaint, however to maintain the 
informal approach of this service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues 
here.
The job sheet provided by CBL confirms that the fuel pump and intercooler were replaced in 
July 2022. However, it doesnt persuade me that there werent further issues with the car 
when Mr B collected it from the dealer in October 2022. In addition, as explained in my 
provisional decision, there appears to have been some confusion and contradicting reports 
about whether further repairs were carried out after Mr B returned the car in October 2022.
I acknowledge a further independent inspection carried out on the car in December 2022 
concluded that no faults could be found. I also recognise, as pointed out by CBL, that the 
smoke reported by Mr B could have occurred as a result of a number of different reasons, 
including residue in the system. However, I think it would have been reasonable for the 
inspection report to have explained or commented on the smoke and its potential cause 
within the opinion or conclusion section, particularly as this was a key part of Mr Bs 
concerns at that point. 
Im also of the opinion that supplying the car to Mr B, following a repair, in that condition 
(with a significant amount of smoke coming from the exhaust) without explanation, wasnt 
reasonable as it would suggest an issue was present. And so, it was likely to cause some 
concern for Mr B. 
I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the 
reasons as set out above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. So, my final decision is the same. I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for CBL, however I can assure them 
that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that my provisional 
findings are fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
Having considered everything above along with whats fair and reasonable, my final decision 
is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers 
Motor Finance and instruct them to:
Refund Mr B s deposit of £2000
Refund all monthly repayments made by Mr B from April 2022
Refund the amount Mr B paid to voluntarily terminate his agreement
Reimburse £108 for the costs of the repairs to the track rods as described in my 
provisional decision
Pay to Mr B £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Amend Mr Bs credit file to ensure theres no adverse information relating to this 
agreement
Contribute 50% towards the cost of repair to Mr Bs driveway for the damage caused 
during the collection of the car
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance should pay 8% yearly 
simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of my 
award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman