DRN-3817976
The complaint
C, a limited company, are unhappy with what Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited 
(AJG) did after it was told about a change of address and other matters. 
What happened
C has a Combined Liability Insurance policy arranged through AJG, first taken out in 
September 2020. In December 2020 C contacted AJG. It said it would be moving to a 
different location in early January and asked whether this would affect its policy. AJG said C 
should update it when it had more information on the move. 
In mid-January C contacted AJG again and confirmed the new address. It said [the 
business] will be moved on Friday this week and will be rebuilt with immediate effect. It said 
it would be applying for planning permission and reopening when Covid-19 restrictions for 
the hospitality industry were lifted. It asked AJG to confirm insurance would still be in place.  
AJG queried whether C was able to move without having obtained planning permission. C 
said the application was for a change of use and asked if it would be covered as we are 
hoping to be up and running in the next four weeks. AJG confirmed a few days later the 
insurance had been swapped over to the new address so its all good to trade and covered 
when you do.
The policy renewed in September 2021. In October there was a break in at Cs premises and 
it made a claim for costs relating to that. The insurer turned down the claim. It thought C 
hadnt traded since December 2020; initially because of Covid-19 and then because of 
renovations. As a result its premises were unoccupied and the policy didnt provide cover 
where that was the case. 
C complained to AJG. It said AJG had been told about its plans and said it would be 
covered. Our investigator thought AJG could have done more to explain policy coverage in 
January 2021. But, by the time of the claim, some months had passed and the policy had 
renewed. And C didnt tell AJG at that point about its current situation. He didnt think AJG 
was responsible for the claim not being paid. 
C didnt agree. It said it had made clear in phone calls with AJG what its plans were. It 
thought AJG should have guided it in the right direction and acted in its best interests. It also 
disputed its premises were unoccupied and said it had continued to carry out business from 
them. So I need to reach a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Cs policy. The clause the insurer has relied 
on to turn down the claim says the insured must immediately notify us ifiv) the Buildings 
becoming Unoccupied.  The policy defines Unoccupied as When the Premises are closed 
for Business for a period in excess of 14 consecutive days. And it says if the insurer isnt 
notified of this the policy will be treated as cancelled and all cover will terminate. 
C says when it contacted AJG it should have been given clearer information about what its 
policy did and didnt cover. Ive looked at the email exchanges between C and AJG from 
December 2020 and January 2021. The key question C asked in that was whether its 
insurance would cover it at its new address. And having discussed that with its insurer AJG 
confirmed it would. 
I appreciate C did also make reference to a rebuild of its premises. As set out above Cs 
policy doesnt provide cover if the premises are unoccupied. But C also indicated it would be 
reopening once Covid-19 restrictions were lifted. And the Association of British Insurers had 
previously advised that insurers would be flexible around any period of unoccupancy where 
a business had to close as a result of Covid-19. And so on the basis of the information C 
provided in its emails Im not persuaded there was more AJG should have said in response. 
However, C says it did explain more about its plans in phone calls. AJG hasnt been able to 
provide recordings of those calls and nor do its records include them. But the emails from 
the time clearly do refer to earlier calls so I think its likely they took place. And it may be 
AJG should have done more to draw Cs attention to the terms of its policy based on the 
information provided in those calls. 
But even if that is the case I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. The break in didnt take place until October 2021. And from the emails C sent in 
December and January it does appear it intended to reopen after Covid-19 restrictions had 
been lifted. However, at the time the policy renewed refurbishment work was ongoing and 
while C says it was continuing to trade to some clients I understand it wasnt open to the 
general public.  
Thats nine months after the conversations it had with AJG. And the policy had renewed in 
the meantime. There was a duty on C to make a fair presentation of risk and the renewal 
documentation from AJG said Please check that all details of cover and sums Insured are 
correct and notify us immediately of any alterations required. Any material alterations in the 
facts last disclosed should be advised to us immediately, failure to do so could result in the 
policy becoming void due to non disclosure.
Based on the earlier email exchanges with AJG it does appear there had been a change in 
Cs circumstances here because it hadnt reopened to the timeframe anticipated in those 
emails. I dont think any failing by AJG in not providing information about the policy terms at 
an earlier date would have prevented C from telling AJG or its insurer about that at renewal. 
In addition the insurer has relied on the policy clause as it relates to unoccupancy to turn 
down the claim C made. But C has been clear it doesnt believe its premises were 
unoccupied at the time. So even if AJG had explained more about that term to C I dont think 
C would have acted differently given it didnt believe its premises were unoccupied. 
The question of whether Cs claim has been correctly and fairly turned down is the subject of 
a separate complaint against the insurer. So that isnt something Im considering in this 
decision. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman