DRN-3190879
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with what Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd did after she made a claim on her 
gadget insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Miss W took out gadget insurance with Bastion in May 2021. In July she made a claim 
because her mobile phone had been stolen. After looking into the claim Bastion turned this 
down because it said the policy required Miss W to blacklist her phone within 24 hours of the 
loss and she hadnt done that. It later said in addition to that Miss W hadnt validated her 
phone in line with the terms of her policy. 
Miss W said she had blacklisted her phone in line with the policy terms and while there had 
been a delay by her network provider in actioning this, that wasnt something she was 
responsible for. She accepted she hadnt met the validation requirements in the policy but 
argued the requirement to provide photographs of her phone was an unfair term which 
wasnt brought to her attention when she took the policy out. 
Our investigator thought even if Miss W did blacklist her phone within 24 hours Bastion was 
still entitled to turn down the claim as she hadnt met the validation requirements set out in 
the policy. However, he didnt think it was fair for Bastion to retain the premiums Miss W paid 
because, as she hadnt met the validation requirements, she could never have made a valid 
claim. Bastion agreed to refund the premiums Miss W paid which our investigator thought 
was fair. 
Miss W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint based on the 
evidence shed already supplied. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Bastion has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In this case Bastion says Miss W didnt ensure her was phone blocked in line with the terms 
of her policy. Ive looked at those terms which say:
You must ensure that You report Your mobile phone to Your mobile phone network and 
request that they bar the device, within 24 hours of discovering its Theft or Accidental loss. 
Failure to do so may invalidate Your cover and may result in Your claim being denied
And in a section headed Evidence the claim the policy says:
If Your Gadget is a mobile phone which has been stolen or lost, written confirmation that 
you have reported this to your network provider within 24 hours of discovery and that the 
network has blocked the device, including the date it was last used
In this case the evidence from Miss Ws network provider shows the phone wasnt blocked 
until around 10 days after the loss had taken place. Bastion says that means the policy 
terms havent been met. However, my reading of the terms is that they dont require the 
phone to be blocked within 24 hours of the loss but that the policyholder reports it to their 
network provider within that period.
But its not clear Miss W did in fact do that because the network provider said its records 
showed the loss was reported 72 hours after it happened. However, I dont think thats 
something I need to consider further in any case because the policy also says within seven 
days of cover starting the policyholder must provide a number of things. 
That includes photographic evidence that Your Gadget(s) are in a good and operational 
state. For a mobile phone a policyholder also needs to supply a photograph of Your IMEI 
number clearly displayed on Your mobile phone. The terms go on to explain that if a 
policyholder fails to validate prior to raising a claim that claim will be denied.
In this case I dont think its in dispute Miss W didnt meet the requirement to provide those 
photographs. So she hasnt done what the policy says. Miss W says this wasnt drawn to her 
attention when she took the policy out. However, the insurance product information 
document (which Bastion is responsible for) does include the requirement to provide us with 
photographic evidence that your gadget is in a good and operational state
And I dont think it was unreasonable of Bastion to ask for this information. Without it Bastion 
doesnt have evidence to show the condition of the phone at the point the policy was taken 
out. That means its not been able to establish what the pre-loss condition of the phone was. 
Miss W has suggested this term is onerous because it requires her to use another device to 
take a photograph with. But I dont think in general terms it would be difficult for someone to 
do that and I havent seen anything to show that Miss W couldnt have done so. 
So I dont think Bastion has done anything wrong in turning down the claim she made. But I 
agree with our investigator that because Miss W never validated her device she couldnt 
have made a successful claim meaning there was no risk to Bastion. Given that I think its 
right Bastion should refund Miss W the premiums she paid for the policy and Im pleased to 
see its agreed to do so. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd will need to refund 
the premiums Miss W paid for this policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman