DRN-3947741
The complaint
Miss C is a sole trader, trading as J. She complains that PayrNet Limited wont refund 
transactions she didnt make.
ANNA Money, who Js account is with, is an agent for PayrNet. For ease, Ill mainly refer to 
ANNA throughout the decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
ANNA hasnt disputed these were unauthorised transactions. However, it refused to 
refund them because Miss C shared an authorisation code received by text. This 
allowed fraudsters to complete the steps to set up Google Pay on their device and 
make these disputed payments. It appears that fraudsters already had Miss Cs card 
details to initiate this process. 
It seems ANNA are alleging that Miss C failed with gross negligence to comply with 
the terms of the account and keep her personalised security details safe. That would 
mean that under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it wouldnt be liable to 
refund J. 
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded ANNA has shown 
thats the case. Ill explain why.
Miss C received a call from someone pretending to be from ANNA. It came from a 
withheld number, which I note other trusted organisations use. They told her 
someone had tried to buy something in a location shed recently been to. So I can 
see why she trusted the caller at the time and became concerned about the safety of 
her money. 
Miss C recalled she was asked to share a code she would receive by text to verify 
who she was. ANNA shared with us what this message looked like, emphasising the 
warning it contained: Do not share this code with anyone  not even with ANNA or 
the police. Your one-time verification code so you can add your ANNA Card to 
Google Pay is [******]. This code is valid for 29 minutes.
Miss C explained she didnt notice the warning at the time. And in the heat of the 
moment, when shed been primed to expect a message that indeed did come 
through from her genuine bank, I can see how she instead focused on the code she 
had been asked for. Particularly when she felt anxious about the situation and, like 
most people, had other things going on and wanted to get this sorted. I dont think it 
meant she acted with very significant carelessness compared to a reasonable person 
 to say that she failed with gross negligence. 
ANNA also pointed out that Miss C wouldve received a message that confirmed 
Google Pay had been set up. Even if Miss C saw this, which it isnt clear she did, I 
think its likely the caller wouldve linked this to the attempted fraud. In any event, 
ANNA hasnt explained how this is relevant to her failing to keep her personalised 
security details safe or how this breached its terms and conditions. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss Cs actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that she failed with gross negligence. So I 
conclude she isnt liable for the transactions and ANNA needs to put things right  by 
refunding her losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate her for the time hes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Js complaint. PayrNet Limited must:
Pay J the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £2,820.00.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman