DRN-3564420
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about the level of compensation he received from Nationwide Building 
Society (NW) when its systems failed to update to show his account was within its overdraft 
limit.
What happened
Mr M held a graduate account with NW. The account came with an overdraft with a limit of 
£3,000. Mr M received a letter informing him that the overdraft limit would be reducing soon. 
Following receipt of the letter on 6 September 2021 Mr M paid the outstanding amount to 
bring his account within the new overdraft limit of £2,500. NW system failed to update the 
payment and balance as bringing his account within the limit and his account was moved to 
its collections department. 
The following month Mr M started to receive letters from NW collections telling him that he 
had an outstanding balance, requesting payment, that his account would be defaulted and 
eventually a default notice. These letters continued until around mid-January 2022 following 
which NWs systems were updated and the letters stopped.
Mr M complained to NW. NW confirmed that there was an error with its systems not updating 
and that this didnt impact his credit file. NW apologised and compensated Mr M £75 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that NW had caused 
some confusion with its correspondence but didnt think it had caused major detriment and 
thought the £75 compensation was a fair way to settle the complaint. Mr M disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 29 June 2022. In it I explained why I was proposing to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NW has agreed with my provisional decision, while Mr M would like further 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
My role is to look at the problems Mr M has experienced and see if NW has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr M back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
NW has already recognised it had a technical error and has corrected this and awarded Mr 
M £75 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused. But having looked at the 
letters and listened to the call recordings provided over the three month period, I dont think 
this is enough.
If Mr E had only had to call once to have NWs error rectified, Id probably say £75 was 
enough to compensate him. But after that first phone call Mr M was told he wouldnt receive 
further letters  he did. And after he was told his account wouldnt be defaulted, he received 
a default notice. This I think undoubtedly left Mr M feeling concerned and worried about the 
state of his account and when or if it would get sorted without more of his personal time. 
So overall and having considered everything although NW has already paid Mr M £75 
compensation I dont think this is enough and I am currently minded to direct NW to pay a 
further £75 to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience caused by not being able to correct 
its error within a reasonable amount of time.
I understand that Mr M would like more compensation, but he hasnt provided any further 
evidence or arguments that convinces me the compensation Ive awarded already isnt fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. And as such I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct NW pay Mr M a further £75.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mr M the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman