DRN-2840063
The complaint
Miss F says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as Moneyboat lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says the loans caused her financial hardship and she had to borrow each 
month to make the repayments to them. 
What happened
This complaint is about three loans Moneyboat provided to Miss F between June 2017 and 
February 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate ended
1 02/06/2017 £200 2 28/07/2017
2 30/08/2017 £350 4 08/12/2017
3 06/02/2018 £1,000 6 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that the checks Moneyboat made 
were proportionate. 
Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that Moneyboat had not made 
proportionate checks before lending. If it had, it wouldve seen that she had other loans and 
she was struggling to repay all of her debt. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Miss F provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss F said she had a monthly income of £1,200 and she had regular monthly 
outgoings of around £800. This left her with a disposable income of £400. So, it would have 
been reasonable for Moneyboat to think that the loan repayments were affordable. 
Miss F has outlined some financial difficulties she says she was having at the time. And the 
crux of Miss Fs objection to the lending is that she feels Moneyboat should have made more 
in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen these problems and not lent to her. 
But given the amount she borrowed against her income, and that this was a relatively short 
lending relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Moneyboat should have looked into 
her finances in more detail. As Ive said above, checks should be proportionate, this does 
mean a business can do less in a shorter lending relationship when the amounts borrowed 
look reasonable. I think this is the case here. 
Miss F says that she was having problems repaying lending that she already had. But the 
information from the credit references agencies that Moneyboat obtained didnt show this. 
There isnt any recent repayment problems and there is no other short term lending shown at 
the same time as the Moneyboat loans. 
And the checks Moneyboat did showed that Miss F said there could be genuine reasons why 
Miss F needed short term money, such as to pay for unexpected car repairs before 
approving loan 3. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Moneyboat was made aware of 
any financial problems Miss F mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Moneyboat to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Moneyboat did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 3 were reasonable. Im not 
upholding Miss Fs complaint about them. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021. 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman