DRN-3341716
The complaint
Mr E has complained about a number of issues relating to his application for a personal loan 
with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) and feels he has ended up paying several thousands of 
pounds more in interest than other loans he has taken out. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 January 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold it were set 
out in that decision. A summary is below and it forms part of this final decision. 
In 2018 Mr E made an appointment to go into a branch to apply for a personal loan with 
Lloyds. Mr E was unable to make the appointment and says he was told by Lloyds to apply 
for the loan online. This he did. The loan, for £22,700, was over 60 months with an APR of 
17.30%. Mr E says he had logged onto the Lloyds online app in order to apply for the loan 
and therefore had assumed he would receive the best APR available. 
The following year Mr E had an appointment in branch on a separate issue. At the 
appointment Mr E says the advisor could not believe the APR of Mr Es personal loan. Mr E 
says the advisor tried to consolidate the loan with Mr Es mortgage but the terms and 
conditions of the loan meant even if Mr E paid the loan off early he says he would still have 
to pay the total loan and interest amount. 
Mr E says at the point of applying for the loan he was not made aware that if he wanted to 
repay the loan amount early he would be liable for the capital and interest for the whole of 
the loan. Mr E also says he was not told the personal loan would have been cheaper if he 
had applied in branch. 
Mr E believes the APR he was offered by Lloyds may have been affected by the previous 
owner of his home who defaulted on a loan previously. 
In August 2020 Mr E complained to Lloyds. He was due to receive a call back regarding the 
complaint but he didnt. Mr E chased Lloyds for a response to his complaint. In December he 
was advised his complaint was closed and a letter had been sent to his home address in 
October. Mr E did not receive the letter until he chased Lloyds for it.  
In its response to the complaint Lloyds apologised the advisor in branch commented on the 
APR of the loan and upheld this part of the complaint. To reflect this it paid Mr E £50. Lloyds 
didnt uphold the part of the complaint regarding the APR. It said its APR is based on a 
persons circumstances at the time of the application and remains fixed for the life of the 
loan. It went on to explain the interest rates that are advertised are not available to all 
customers. Lloyds said there is no evidence Mr E would have been offered a lower rate even 
if he had applied for the loan in branch. 
Mr E was not satisfied with the response he received from Lloyds and so referred the matter 
to this service. Our investigator looked into the concerns raised by Mr E. She didnt uphold 
part of the complaint. The investigator said at the time of applying for the loan Mr E would 
have seen the terms and conditions of the loan and agreed to them. She did agree the 
advisor in the branch should not have commented on the loan since there was no guarantee 
the rate would have been cheaper if Mr E had applied for it online. The investigator thought 
Lloyds had already done enough to put things right by paying Mr E £50 in recognition of this 
error. Mr E did not agree with the investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. Where information is unclear or incomplete as is the 
case here I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I think is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.  
Higher APR when applying online 
I understand Mr E believes he would have received a better interest rate in branch and is 
unhappy he wasnt informed of this when told he could apply online. I can see no evidence 
to suggest the APR Mr E would have been offered would have been lower if he had applied 
for the loan in branch. 
The APR offered is tailored to each applicant and is based on a number of factors; such as 
the customers credit history and the banks lending criteria. Lloyds have said advisors in 
branch are not able to override or intervene with the APR on their loans. 
Paying off the loan early 
Mr E complains there was no reference made to paying off the loan early or combining loan 
with mortgage. 
Lloyds was not able to identify which advisor Mr E spoke to and it was unable to find any 
branch notes that may have shed some additional light on what happened during the 
meeting. 
I have seen a letter from Lloyds sent to Mr E on agreement of the loan. The letter confirms 
Mr E could choose to make additional payments at any time, which will reduce the amount 
of interest and obtain a settlement quote and close your loan early. The same letter also 
details the frequency and amount of the monthly repayments. Whilst the letter does not refer 
to what would happen if the loan is paid off early I have checked the terms and conditions of 
the loan agreement. Section 5 confirms that to repay some or all of the money owed under 
the agreement you must pay the total amount of remaining payments under the agreement 
less a rebate calculated in accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. The rebate is a reduction in the charge for credit this also applied to any 
refinancing of the loan. Mr E would have checked a box to confirm his agreement to the loan 
agreement when he applied for the loan. 
Lloyds have said it is unable to find an application for early settlement of the loan from Mr E. 
But in any event, having looked at the terms and conditions of the loan agreement I am 
satisfied if he had done so the settlement figure would have taken into account any rebate as 
detailed above. 
I dont intend to uphold this part of the complaint 
Impact of previous homeowner on APRMr E believes the APR he was offered by Lloyds may have been affected by the previous 
owner of his home who defaulted on a loan previously. Lloyds are unable to comment on 
another customers account without consent. And neither can I comment on another 
customers relationship with the business. But I would reiterate my comments above 
regarding lending decisions being personal to the applicant. 
Finally, I appreciate Mr E had some difficulty getting a copy of his complaint response from 
Lloyds but I am pleased to see it didnt impact on his bringing his complaint to us. 
Id like to reassure Mr E Ive thought very carefully about what hes said, and I do realise this 
wont be what he was hoping I would say. But I havent found Lloyds has acted 
unreasonably or treated Mr E unfairly in respect of his personal loan. 
It is unfortunate the advisor in branch commented on the APR of the loan since they would 
not have had access to all of the information provided in the application process of the loan. 
Lloyds accept and apologised for this and paid £50 to reflect this. I think it is fair and I wont 
be asking Lloyds to do anything more. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Neither party responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have seen no reason to 
depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Lloyds have paid £50 to reflect the failure 
in service and I wont be asking Lloyds to do anymore.  
My final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision Lloyds Bank PLC has already 
paid Mr E £5. I do not require it to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman