DRN-4487410
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer Skyfire Insurance Company Limited in respect of 
the valuation it applied and resultant settlement it made for his car which, following an 
accident, was found to be a total loss.
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged. He made a claim. Skyfire felt it wouldnt be economic to repair it so 
declared it a total loss. An initial settlement figure was given to Mr S, which he disagreed 
with. Following review by an engineer, Skyfire said it would pay Mr S £3,700, less £994 
because Mr S was keeping the car. It said £3,700 was in the range of the average (£4,675) 
of three valuations it had obtained from some industry trade guides used for valuing cars, 
less a 20 per cent deduction because Mr Ss car was a total loss previously.
Skyfire and Mr S settled the claim on an interim basis. But Mr S remained unhappy. He 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service saying he believed a fair market value for 
his car was £5,500. He presented some adverts in this respect. 
Our Investigator felt that the market value of £4,675 relied upon by Skyfire was reasonable. 
He explained that was because, based on valuations returned from four guides that figure 
fell within the range of values returned. But he felt Skyfire couldnt reasonably deduct 20 per 
cert for the previous total loss status of the car. He explained he felt the current competitive 
market for second-hand cars didnt suggest such a generalised deduction was likely fair. So 
he said Skyfire should return £935 to Mr S, being the 20 per cent deduction it had applied.
Mr S was pleased by the outcome. Skyfire said it disagreed with it. It provided comment from 
its engineer, explaining why he thought car sales are usually affected by total loss markers. 
Essentially that if the insurer couldnt fix the car, declaring it a total loss, the car now being 
sold is likely to have been repaired in an unsafe manner. Meaning theyre automatically 
viewed with caution, as unknown propositions, by prospective buyers. Such that applying a 
deduction of 20% is fair. And Skyfire referenced comment from our website referring to such 
a deduction being reasonable.
The complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I wasnt persuaded 
that the market value relied upon by Skyfire was fair in the circumstances. I felt an uplift was 
reasonably required. I also felt, as did our Investigator, that with the current car sales market 
being so competitive, it wasnt fair for Skyfire to deduct 20 per cent for the previous total loss 
of the car. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views. My findings were: 
Previous total loss deduction
When Mr S bought his car it was a previous insurance total loss. Skyfire, when settling 
Mr Ss accident claim as a total loss paid him net of a 20 per cent deduction applied because 
of the previous total loss. Skyfire thinks that the car, if now sold, would attract a lesser value 
on the second-hand market than other similar non-total loss cars. And I thank Skyfire for 
referencing guidance taken from the Financial Ombudsman Services website in this respect.
I appreciate that our guidance does say that we may find such a deduction is fair. And 
I accept that, historically, and generally, its been the case that a total loss car would likely 
attract a significantly lower price than a similar car for sale which had not been so damaged. 
But the point made by our Investigator, which I think both Skyfire and its engineer missed, is 
that the market for second-hand cars has changed. Also so has the repair environment for 
insurers. The market is now very competitive and fast moving. And insurers are often finding 
cars to be total losses even where relatively minor damage has been caused due to not just 
the price of parts and labour but also availability of parts. Its often not that they cant fix the 
car, but that they choose not to. Such that its not fair to assume that all total loss cars would 
be viewed by potential buyers as unsafe propositions (because the insurer couldnt fix them). 
I dont think its fair, in the current climate, to say that its most likely that, Mr Ss car, if sold, 
would sell for 20% less than other similar non-total loss cars. Ive seen no specific argument 
in this respect from Skyfire. Nothing Skyfire or its engineer has said has persuaded me it 
would be fair to say thats likely the case. 
Id add that my analysis below casts further doubt on the idea that the value of Mr Ss car 
would likely be so affected. In short the sample of adverts provided by Mr S contain two cars 
flagged as previous insurance total losses. Neither are for sale at anywhere near the sum 
Skyfire settled for with Mr S, which was net of the 20% deduction. In fact, at around £5,500 
they are both nearly 50% more than the £3,700 Skyfire paid.
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that the value of Mr Ss car, in the current 
market, would be most likely to be impacted by 20% on account of the car having been a 
previous total loss. So, in my view, its not fair for Skyfires claim settlement to have been 
paid net of such a deduction.    
Market value
The following values from four industry trade guides have been validated by our Investigator:
£5,231
£5,195
£4,264
£3,970
From this it can be seen that the sum relied upon by Skyfire, of £4,675 does fall within the 
range of those values, roughly in the middle. But in reviewing those values Ive noted that 
they arent all of a similar spread across their range. Rather there are two similar prices at 
just over £5,000 and two much lower, by about £1,000, at around £4,000. Such a large gap 
between the two pairs of figures might suggest one or the other is not presenting a reliable 
reflection of the market. So I need to review the other data available to see if this is the case.
Mr S provided some adverts for cars similar to his. I reviewed them. I note the make and 
model, as well as year of registration are the same. But also that the mileage of the cars 
advertised does differ quite significantly. Across the six adverts the mileage differs on every 
car, from 104,000 to 248,000. And there is only one whose mileage is similar to Mr Ss car 
(179,000 against Mr Ss cars 180,000). What is significant to me though is that all of them, 
including a couple which are flagged as previous total losses, have asking prices of over 
£5,300. Only one asks for a significantly higher price of around £7,000. With that detail set 
against the four guide valuations returned its difficult for me to say with any degree of 
confidence that the lower pair of values are likely to be reliable indicators of a fair market 
value of Mr Ss car.The lower pair of values being unreliable means they fairly have to be discounted from the 
market value assessment. As does the highest of the advert values at around £7,000. That 
leaves me with two guide values at £5,231 and £5,195, and five adverts for varying mileage 
cars ranging from £5,300  £5,750. With the one which has very similar mileage to Mr Ss 
having a sum in the middle of £5,500, and being flagged in the advert as a previous total 
loss. So I think its reasonable to factor that sum of £5,500 into the market value 
assessment. It falls right in the middle of a fairly evenly spread range of figures and it is 
being asked for a car very much like Mr Ss. But, because the sample it comes from is small, 
and the trade guides take into account much more data, I think its fair to set the sum 
alongside the upper pair of values returned from the trade guides and use an average of the 
three to determine a fair market value for Mr Ss car. The three to consider are; £5,231, 
£5,195 (the upper pair of guide values) and £5,500 (the advert value). The average of those 
three is £5,308. 
From the sum of £5,308, the salvage value (£994) would normally need to be accounted for 
by making a deduction. That £994 represents about 20 per cent of Skyfires originally applied 
market value figure. That percentage is not dissimilar to that applied by insurers across the 
industry in similar circumstances. It represents what they are likely to gain in scrap value 
from selling damaged, total loss vehicles. So Im satisfied its fair that Skyfire charged Mr S 
this sum to keep his car. But here, due to the way the claim was initially settled, Mr S paid 
£994 to Skyfire. So it has the benefit of that sum. Which means I dont need to deduct it now. 
Also, in the circumstances of the accident, I understand that there was no excess to be 
taken. Further, as Ive said above, Skyfire cant fairly make a deduction for the previous total 
loss. So the fair and reasonable settlement figure for Mr S is £5,308. 
Skyfire previously paid Mr S £3,700. Taking that from the fair and reasonable figure Ive set 
out above, leaves a sum of £1,608. I intend to require it to pay this sum now, plus interest* 
applied from the date the £3,700 payment was made until the sum of £1,608 is paid.
Compensation
I can see Mr S has been a bit worried by all of this. And hes had to put in some degree of 
effort to challenge Skyfire. I think thats been more difficult in his particular situation as he 
struggles with some written documentation. I think £200 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due. 
Mr S accepted the decision. Skyfire said it disagreed with it. Its response focused on the 
findings made in respect of the 20% deduction it had sought to apply for Mr Ss car having 
been a previous total loss. It did not object to my findings made about the market value or 
paying Mr S compensation.
Skyfire said if the Financial Ombudsman Services view on a 20% deduction for previous 
total loss vehicles is changing that will affect the industry. Skyfire sent an industry newsletter 
which commented on previous total loss cars for sale often being marked at a lower price. It 
quoted various internet sources making similar comments. It said a deduction like this is 
supported by a court case. 
It said it totally disagreed with the idea that a buyer would not be put off by a previous total 
loss vehicle. In this case, Skyfire said, it was relevant, in its view, that the previous total loss 
on Mr Ss car pre-dated the covid-19 lockdown and the current market conditions for repair. 
Skyfire said it had structural damage which, at that earlier time, had simply been too costly to 
repair. Skyfire believes that when the car was then sold in 2020, it would have faired less 
favourably, by at least 20%, than a similar car which had not been a total loss. Any repair 
would then, Skyfire says, have been done cheaply and would likely have been sub-standard. Skyfire also stated that currently the second-hand car market is in decline, its not as 
competitive as it was a while ago. 
Skyfire also presented two adverts of comparable cars for sale  one being a previous total 
loss and with an asking price £1,000 less than the comparison car. Looking at the adverts 
provided by Mr S it said one was over-priced as it had much higher mileage than a similar 
car in another of the adverts which was for sale for less. It said another of the cars for sale, 
which had a total loss marker on it, was for sale at the low price it was (£5,750), lower than 
others with higher mileage, because of the marker. Skyfire said the valuation guides price 
that car at over £7,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Skyfires concerns about the industry. I appreciate there is likely a wealth of 
generic data available which references previous total loss cars likely selling for less than 
non-total loss competitors. But theres no telling how up to date that detail is or on what data 
it is based. Ive noted the court case Skyfire has quoted. It seems to centre on an alleged 
loss between two private individuals in respect of a car which when sold did so at a loss, 
seemingly due to damage which had been sustained. Im not persuaded thats relevant to a 
complaint about an insurers settlement for a car which was a previous total loss but which 
had been repaired. 
Clearly when an insurer repairs a car, it does so using manufacturer approved parts and 
methods. Its true that can often be more costly than if generic or reconditioned parts are 
used. But I dont think its fair to say that any repair not carried out by an insurer will likely be 
sub-standard. I bear in mind that Mr Ss car passed its MOT in the year before the accident. 
Also that he did take the car back  which I dont think hed have done had it been 
sub-standard. I can see from MOT data available on-line that he had the car fixed quite 
quickly as it passed another MOT in June 2023 (with Skyfire having settled with him in late 
May 2023). So Im not persuaded by Skyfires hypothesis that it was fixed in a cheap manner 
in 2020 which would likely have affected its market value at the time of Mr Ss accident.
I note the two advert Skyfires provided. They are for similar cars, to each other and Mr Ss, 
although a year younger than his. But I also note that there might be a reason for their 
difference in price (other than the previous total loss)  they are for sale in two very different 
areas of the country. And whilst I note Skyfire has then gone on to offer some analysis of the 
adverts Mr S provided, I note it chose not to comment on the advert which I said 
provisionally was for a car very similar to Mr Ss. That car was also a previous total loss and 
for sale at £5,500. I still think that, set alongside the uppermost pair of valuation figures 
(£5,231 and £5,195) shows that Skyfires settlement of £3,700 (being a starting market value 
of £4,675 less a 20 per cent deduction) was not a fair and reasonable total loss settlement 
for Mr Ss car.  
Which means that my view on Skyfire applying a 20% deduction has not changed. Skyfire 
did not object to the other points I made provisionally, and Mr S accepted my findings. So 
Ive no need to review what I said in those respects. My provisional findings then, along with 
my comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision.
 
Putting things right
I require Skyfire to pay Mr S:£1,608, plus interest* from the date £3,700 was paid until this settlement is made.
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Skyfire to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman