DRN-2083603
The complaint
Mr M says that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
In 1991 Mr M took out a Nationwide mortgage along with PPI to protect his mortgage 
monthly repayments. The policy covered Mr M in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr M disagrees so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
Mr M mainly says PPI wasnt ever explained and he wasnt made aware of it or given any 
options or provided with any paperwork. He  told us that if hed known he had PPI he 
wouldve claimed on the policy when he was made redundant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. 
But that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr M told us he took out the 
PPI during a meeting and Nationwides records appear to show this also. So it looks like 
thats what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Mr M has told us about the way he says Nationwide sold 
him the PPI. But what Mr M says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr M to recall exactly what was discussed at 
the time. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.  
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, potentially due to run for a long period of 
time. Mr Ms home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided an affordable and dependable means of ensuring the monthly mortgage 
repayments were protected even if Mr M couldnt work. 
So, I can see why Mr M mightve felt PPI was useful. I think its likely that protecting his 
mortgage repayments in the event of unexpected accident, sickness or unemployment 
wouldve been an important consideration for Mr M at the time.  
I can completely understand why Mr M mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr M decided he wanted to have the benefits and security 
that PPI offered and he chose to take the policy.  
Nationwide mentioned in its final response letter sent to Mr M that there was a possibility that 
PPI mightve been a compulsory part of his mortgage deal. But this wouldnt be a reason on 
its own for me to uphold this complaint. Making PPI compulsory in these circumstances 
doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold. Mr M couldve applied for a different mortgage without PPI if 
this wasnt the mortgage package he wanted. 
Nationwide says it didnt recommend PPI to Mr M. But Nationwide still had to make sure it 
told him enough about the policy for Mr M to be able to decide if he wanted to buy it. I think, 
broadly speaking, it did - and where it mightnt have done, better information wouldnt have 
made a difference. 
Mr M told us he couldve relied on having some sick pay entitlement through work although 
he cant now remember how much or for how long. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of 
this and likely for significantly longer  up to 24 months for a successful accident or sickness 
claim. So I think the policy could've provided a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a 
difficult time  particularly as Mr M mightve faced extra costs as a result of being sick or 
disabled. 
And the PPI couldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr M became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr M long term protection whilst he was paying for his 
home.
Ive taken into account that Mr M mentioned having some savings when he took out the PPI. 
But this doesn't mean that he couldnt have benefitted from the policy. I say this because 
there was no guarantee that Mr M wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to 
make a claim as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And if he took out this mortgage rather than invest all his savings in buying the house, 
possibly because he had other plans for that money, having PPI meant Mr M could depend 
on being able to continue to keep savings intact to spend on other things or to provide 
financial security for the future. So I can see why he might still have wanted to take out PPI.
Mr M told us he couldve relied on a generous pension from his employer. But pension 
policies provided different benefits and paid out in different circumstances. They didn't 
duplicate the benefits or protect his mortgage monthly repayments in the same way as the 
PPI.
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr M if he 
was off work sick. And PPI couldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he 
mightve got if hed lost his job, giving Mr M some additional financial security in those 
circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So, after thinking about everything Mr M told us about his financial situation at the time, 
I think the policy offered Mr M useful benefits given his particular circumstances.Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr M about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it appears that he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover 
hed taken out. So I dont think that having better information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations is likely to have put Mr M off taking out the cover he chose. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr M at the outset. But he also took out some 
additional benefit to provide him with an extra benefit in the event of a successful claim to 
help with other costs. So it doesnt look like keeping the cost of the policy down was a 
priority for him at the time. 
Taking into account his situation, I can see why Mr M mightve valued the benefits that PPI 
offered him. Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve made a different decision 
about whether to take out PPI if better information had been provided. On balance, I think 
hed still have taken it out. 
So I dont find that Mr M has lost out as a result of anything Nationwide did wrong. This 
means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Mr M has told us that he didnt make a claim on the insurance when he was unable to work. 
This information doesnt affect my decision about whether the PPI was mis-sold to him. But 
he may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider a 
retrospective claim. If he does so and finds that he has concerns in this regard, then he 
should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy. And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory 
conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this 
Service as a separate matter. 
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman