DRN-3325892
The complaint
Following a jurisdiction decision by the Financial Ombudsman Service dated 21 June 2021, 
it has been decided that we are able to consider the following matters in relation to Ms Ks 
complaint about her mortgage account with The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op).
Co-ops failure to collect the proceeds of a maturing endowment policy (policy A)
legal costs incurred by Ms K;
Co-ops failure to respond to Ms Ks solicitors;
poor communication and customer service;
the balance of the account is incorrect, as Ms K believes she has repaid it in full and so 
the bank should not be continuing to charge her interest;
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, the investigator has set out in great detail the timeline of events in her letter of 
8 December 2021, a copy of which both parties have received. Because our decisions are 
published, its important I dont include in this decision any information that might lead to 
Ms K being identified. So for all these reasons, I will provide only a brief summary of the 
complaint.
In 1988 Ms K and her sister took out a joint interest-only endowment mortgage with Co-op, 
borrowing £54,100. They each took out an endowment policy with a sum assured of £27,050 
which were assigned to Co-op. In 1991 the mortgage was transferred into her sole name. By 
that time, Co-op was no longer requiring the assignment of life policies. It released policy A 
to Ms K, who took out another policy (policy B) to replace her sisters policy.
Ms K had complained in 2007 about mis-sale of Policy A. Co-op offered redress of 
£2,113.47, based on the regulatory guidance in place at the time (known as RU89), which 
Ms K rejected. Ms K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but in 2008 we found 
Co-ops offer to be fair. In the absence of Ms K accepting our findings, our file was closed. 
No redress was paid.
The mortgage term reached its end in August 2013, but the balance wasnt repaid. It 
appears Ms K mistakenly thought Co-op would arrange for the proceeds of the endowment 
policies to be collected from the providers and paid to the mortgage account. This, however, 
was Ms Ks responsibility. In 2013, as Ms K was maintaining she wasnt responsible for 
Policy A being paid out, Co-op completed a lost policy declaration to the provider, saying it 
was assigned and asking for the proceeds to be paid to it. The policy proceeds of 
£21,401.02 were paid to Co-op in 2013, reducing the account balance to just under £33,000.
The remainder of the mortgage balance was unpaid for several years, with Ms K paying just 
the interest. In June 2019 she paid the proceeds of policy B to the mortgage. Ms K thought 
there was about £3,000 still outstanding and paid this. Ms K wanted Co-op to send her the 
deeds as she believed shed repaid the mortgage, but Co-op said there was about £9,000 
still outstanding.
Co-op had begun possession action, but hearings fixed for June 2019 and September 2019 
was adjourned to see if a settlement could be reached. Through her solicitors, Ms K offered 
£1,000 to settle the mortgage. This was rejected by Co-op. 
In August 2019 Ms K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Ms K maintains that 
it was Co-ops responsibility to collect the policy proceeds and clear the mortgage debt. She 
is unhappy at the legal costs incurred  - both by Co-op (and added to her mortgage debt) 
and by herself in having to instruct solicitors. Ms K is also dissatisfied at the level of service 
provided by Co-op, particularly in relation to failure to respond to her solicitors defence to 
the possession claim, and in respect of telephone calls in November 2018.
There were other issues about which Ms K complained, but on 21 June 2021 an 
ombudsman decided that we werent able to look at those matters as they were outside our 
jurisdiction. I will therefore make no further reference to them.
An investigator looked at the complaint and on 8 December 2021 she issued the following 
findings:
Co-ops failure to collect the proceeds of policy A  The investigator was satisfied that 
the policy had been re-assigned to Ms K in 1991, and so it wasnt Co-ops responsibility to 
collect the policy proceeds. She was satisfied that Co-op had explained the policy was no 
longer assigned to it in correspondence with Ms Ks solicitors in 1991 and 1992. Ms K also 
queried with Co-op in 2013 why the policy had been re-assigned to her.
Incorrect mortgage account balance  The investigator reviewed the transaction history 
and was satisfied the account balance was correct. She thought Ms Ks belief it was 
incorrect was because Ms K incorrectly assumed it was Co-ops responsibility to collect the 
proceeds of both policies A and B and apply them to the mortgage account, when this was, 
in fact, her responsibility.
Legal fees  The investigator didnt think Co-op was responsible for the cost of Ms K 
instructing a solicitor. She thought it was likely, given Ms K was disputing the account 
balance, that Ms K would have instructed solicitors in any case. Ms K told Co-op that this is 
what shed intended to do in November 2018. 
Failure to respond to solicitors  The investigator wasnt persuaded that Co-op failed to 
respond to Ms Ks solicitors when they sent in her defence to the possession claim on 13 
June 2019. The hearing scheduled for 21 June 2019 was adjourned on 18 June 2019. The 
investigator noted thered been communication between both Co-ops and Ms Ks solicitors. 
As a result, she didnt think Ms Ks solicitors letter, sending in her defence, had been 
ignored.Change of address  Ms K had asked Co-op to change her address on the account in 
2018. Co-op didnt do this because it said it couldnt match Ms Ks signature with the one on 
file and so wrote to the property address (where Ms K no longer lived) to ask for this. The 
investigator noted that Co-op was aware Ms K worked abroad but continued to send 
correspondence to the property address. The investigator asked Co-op to pay compensation 
of £200 for this, which the bank agreed to do.
Call with Co-op in November 2018  Ms K was concerned to receive a call from Co-op on 
2 November 2018 and a follow-up call on 9 November 2018. Ms K complained that these 
might have been from a scammer, and that she was treated with disrespect by the caller. 
After listening to the calls, the investigator didnt think Co-op had done anything wrong. 
Overall, the investigator thought the only issue Co-op was required to pay compensation for 
was the error in not amending Ms Ks address in November 2018. Co-op agreed to pay £200 
compensation for this. 
Ms K, however, didnt accept the investigators findings. She has reiterated all her concerns, 
and pointed out inconsistencies in historic correspondence. Ms K says that Co-op has no 
case to take to court. Ms K also wanted to raise a new complaint about her address, which 
the investigator explained would need to be raised with Co-op first, and forwarded it on for 
the banks response.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive read the jurisdiction decision dated 21 June 2021 and agree with the 
ombudsman about which parts of the complaint are outside our jurisdiction.
I will explain at the outset that I will not be looking at the new complaint Ms K has recently 
raised about her change of address. If Co-op is unable to resolve that complaint to Ms Ks 
satisfaction, she will be entitled to raise a fresh complaint with us about it. 
Ive looked carefully at everything thats happened. Having done so, other than customer 
service issues concerning Ms Ks change of address in 2018, I dont think Co-op has done 
anything wrong.
Failure to collect Policy A: Im satisfied that Policy A was re-assigned to Ms K in 1991 and 
that Policy B was never assigned to Co-op. Consequently when the mortgage term came to 
an end in 2013, it was Ms Ks responsibility to arrange for the policy proceeds to be paid to 
her, and then settle the outstanding mortgage balance. 
From the correspondence, it appears Ms K wasnt in possession of Policy A by 2013, which 
is why Co-op completed a lost policy declaration to the provider to ensure the funds were 
paid out to it. Although Ms K claimed to have been unaware of the re-assignment of the 
policy to her in 1991, her solicitors were informed of this and it was their responsibility to 
convey this information to Ms K. If they didnt do so, thats not something for which I can hold 
Co-op responsible. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.Account balance: Its unfortunate that Policies A and B under-performed, as a result of 
which there was a shortfall when the policies matured. As I stated above, Co-op offered 
redress in relation to Policy A, which Ms K rejected. Policy B wasnt arranged by Co-op and 
so the bank wasnt responsible for any shortfall on that policy.
Having looked at what was outstanding on the mortgage at the date the term expired in 
2013, and what has been paid since, I am satisfied that there is still a balance owed to 
Co-op of around £9,000, on which interest is accruing. I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Legal fees: Im not persuaded Co-op is required to reimburse Ms Ks legal fees. Ms K 
instructed solicitors to represent her in relation to court proceedings. Its a matter for the 
court to determine whether or not an order for costs should be made in her favour. If Ms K 
and Co-op are able to negotiate a settlement, it is open to Ms K to ask the bank to cover 
some or all of her legal costs, and that would be a matter for Co-op to decide. But as it was 
Ms Ks choice to instruct solicitors, Im not persuaded it is fair or reasonable to order the 
bank to pay her legal costs. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Failure to reply to solicitors: Ive looked at the available correspondence between Co-op 
and its solicitors (which is legally privileged and which Im satisfied must remain confidential). 
From this I can see that there was considerable engagement with Ms Ks solicitors and that 
the defence her solicitors sent to the banks solicitors was received and considered. The 
hearings fixed for June and September 2019 were adjourned, which Im satisfied wouldnt 
have happened if the bank had thought there was no prospect of productive negotiation. I 
dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Change of address: I agree with the investigator that Co-op could have done better here. 
Co-op was aware from the account history that Ms K worked abroad. I also agree with the 
investigator that, in the absence of the original application form (which was no longer 
accessible), Co-op could have used other examples of Ms Ks signature it held on file in 
order to process the request.
I agree with the investigator that Co-op should pay compensation for this. I think £200 is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to the error made. I therefore uphold this part of the complaint.
Call in November 2018: Ive listened to the call recordings. The investigator set out the 
details of the conversations in her letter of 8 December 2021, so Im not going to repeat what 
was said during the call here. Im satisfied that the banks staff member was courteous and 
professional. I appreciate why Ms K was concerned at receiving the call, but she did confirm 
she was happy to proceed with it and completed the banks security process. 
Given that the mortgage had been outstanding for some time in November 2018, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Co-op to want to speak to Ms K to find out more about the 
situation. So although I acknowledge Ms K felt the banks questions were intrusive, Im not 
persuaded they were inappropriate, given the circumstances.
Im also satisfied that Co-op isnt required to correspond via email, as this isnt considered to 
be a secure medium.  I also note that Ms K explained she was instructing a solicitor, and she 
asked the bank to call her in a week if it hadnt received correspondence from her.
Overall, I dont find the banks calls to have been intrusive, unprofessional or harassing. I 
dont uphold this part of the complaint.Putting things right
Im satisfied Co-op could have done more to check Ms Ks identity from information already 
in its files in relation to her request for a change of address. As a result, Ms K was caused 
inconvenience. I direct Co-operative Bank Plc to pay Ms K £200 compensation for this.
Further points
I note Ms K has now raised a new complaint about her change of address, which as been 
sent to the bank for it to respond to. Lenders will generally agree to put recovery action on 
hold whilst we look at a complaint  but they dont have to and we cant order them to do so. 
It would undermine our impartiality if we had the power to order a mortgage lender to stop 
court action which it is entitled to take. It would also create the potential risk of consumers 
using our service to bring complaints with the intention of preventing their mortgage lender 
from taking legal action to recover money legitimately owed to it.
I am not suggesting that Ms Ks new complaint has been brought with the intention of 
preventing Co-op from pursuing recovery of the outstanding mortgage debt in court. But it 
would be remiss of me if I did not make it clear that we do not have any power to order 
Co-op to put legal action on hold. This is particularly so given the new complaint is about an 
administrative issue relating to a change of address, which has no effect on repayment of 
the outstanding account balance.
The mortgage balance has been due and payable to the bank for almost nine years. I 
appreciate Ms K believes she has paid what is due to Co-op, but the evidence is persuasive 
that this is not the case, and my decision is the ombudsman services final word on the 
matter. I would urge Ms K (or her solicitors) to maintain an open dialogue with Co-op with a 
view to resolving this matter. If a settlement cant be agreed, Co-op is entitled to pursue 
repayment of the account balance through the courts. This is a last resort, but I think the 
bank has shown considerable forbearance whilst it has been dealing with the queries Ms K 
has raised about the mortgage over the past nine years. 
I sincerely hope Ms K is able to resolve this matter amicably with Co-op, without the need for 
further legal action. If Ms K decides not to accept my decision, she is free to pursue her 
grievances against Co-op in court, if she wishes to do so. I would suggest Ms K takes legal 
advice before doing so.
My final decision
My decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, Co-operative Bank Plc must 
pay Ms K £200 compensation for not changing her address on the account in 2018. I do not 
uphold any other part of Ms Ks complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman