DRN-3223610
The complaint
Ms B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc incorrectly placed a marker on her credit file. This 
led to her being declined for a mortgage application and having to apply elsewhere at a 
higher cost.
What happened
In 2019 Ms B was surprised to discover her account overdraft had been removed without 
notification. Ms B spoke to Clydesdale and thought the matter had been sorted out. But 
when she applied for a re-mortgage it was declined.
Ms B wasnt able to discover the exact reason but was advised there were strict policies 
relating to late payments. When Ms B investigated further it seemed to be because of a late 
payment in May 2019. But Clydesdale hadnt warned her the overdraft mistake would create 
a late payment marker. And Ms B had to re-mortgage elsewhere at a higher interest rate 
with about £300 in additional costs.  
Ms B said it took many weeks for Clydesdale to remove the late payment marker from her 
credit file. But the bank only offered £150 compensation for its error. And it said it needed 
further proof in relation to her credit file and decline before it would consider increasing the 
amount. Ms B said shes found the whole matter very distressing. And she wants 
significantly more than the amount offered.
Clydesdale said the late payment marker had been applied incorrectly. But itd now been 
removed, and the bank could provide a letter of comfort to evidence this if Ms B required. 
Clydesdale said it was unable to show the marker was the sole reason Ms Bs application 
had been declined. And it felt the increased compensation of £200 was reasonable unless 
Ms B could show evidence of any further costs incurred as a direct result of the late payment 
marker.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Clydesdales response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator could see Clydesdale had corrected its 
error and removed the marker from Ms Bs credit file. So she looked into the reasons Ms Bs 
mortgage application had been declined. 
The bank had confirmed itd been unable to offer a long-term mortgage due to the age of 
one of the applicants. And the sole application in Ms Bs name hadnt met the lending criteria 
for the amount requested. So she felt Ms B wouldve incurred the costs to remove her 
mother from the mortgage regardless of the lender. 
Our investigator hoped this clarified to Ms B that the late payment marker hadnt been 
responsible for the banks lending decision. And she felt the increased offer of £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Ms B was appropriate in the 
circumstances. So she wouldnt be asking Clydesdale to do anything more. 
Ms B didnt agree with our investigator. Shed been told on the phone that the bank hadnt 
been able to offer a mortgage due to her credit report. 
And her credit file was perfect other than the marker placed by Clydesdale. So shes asked 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sorry to hear of the upset Ms B has been through. It mustve been very worrying to receive 
a letter from her bank saying she was overdrawn when she believed there was an overdraft 
facility in place. And she believes Clydesdales mistake affected her mortgage application 
later in the year. So Ive looked very carefully at everything thats happened. And whether 
Clydesdale needs to do anything more to put things right.
Clydesdale accepted the late payment shouldnt have been applied to Ms Bs credit file. Itd 
been caused when the overdraft was removed without giving Ms B two-months notice. But 
the bank said the marker had been removed in October 2019 and it didnt believe itd 
affected the mortgage application.
Its important to recognise that different lenders have different criteria for who they lend 
money to  and the terms they expect it to be repaid on. Ms B initially made a joint 
application with her mother. And Its understandable that she would expect the lender to 
consider it in the same way itd approved previous lending.
But at the time of the re-mortgage application the bank wasnt able to make an offer on the 
terms and length required due to the age of one of the applicants. And when it considered an 
application solely in Ms Bs name the bank declined to make an offer due to affordability 
concerns.
I appreciate Ms B still feels the late payment marker played a part in the decision. That was 
the impression she was given when she spoke to the bank. But having looked at the 
information provided in relation to the mortgage application theres nothing to suggest that 
was the case.
The bank wasnt able to make an offer with Ms Bs mother included as an applicant due to 
the length of the mortgage. And when it considered Ms Bs circumstances on her own it 
didnt feel it met the lending criteria.
I realise Ms B was able to obtain a mortgage in her own name with another lender. But as 
Ive explained, each lender will have their own criteria to decide who they lend money to. I 
realise Ms B had to pay legal costs to make the application in her sole name. But I think this 
wouldve been the case whether or not her first application had been successful. 
I know how strongly Ms B feels about this matter. Its clear Clydesdale made a mistake when 
it incorrectly applied the late payment marker to Ms Bs account. And its accepted it was 
unreasonable to give Ms B such a short period to provide information about related losses. 
But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the late payment marker was the sole reason the 
initial application was declined. The records show age and affordability were the decisive 
factors  not the payment marker. It follows that I cant hold Clydesdale responsible for any 
additional costs Ms B incurred when completing a mortgage with another lender.
I know Ms B will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think the increased compensation 
of £200 offered to Ms B for the poor service she received from Clydesdale is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman