DRN-2178687
The complaint
Mrs D complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) refused to split 
her no claims discount (NCD) between two cars on her multi car insurance policy.
Mrs D is represented in this complaint by her husband but, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs D 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs D had a multi car policy with LV which ran for 12 months from May 2019. There are two 
cars on the policy. In April 2020 Mrs D contacted LV and asked to transfer one year of her 
NCD from one car on the policy to the other car on the policy. But LV said it wouldnt split the 
NCD to top up other vehicles and said this was a company/underwriting decision which it 
cant override. It said this was the industry standard. LV also said the document of insurance 
states that, if more than one car is insured, the NCD is earned separately for each car in the 
NCD holders name.
 
Mrs D wasnt happy with this and complained. In response, LV said there was no industry 
standard which governs the application of NCDs and apologised for previously saying there 
was. It said each insurer would determine how to apply NCDs and said some would allow a 
transfer, while others would not. LV said it wouldnt allow a partial transfer of NCDs from one 
car to increase the NCDs on the other car in the same policy. Mrs D wasnt satisfied with this 
and approached this service.
Our investigator thought LV had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ds policy 
and didnt think it had acted unfairly. She said there were no set rules governing how NCDs 
work, or how they should be applied. And LV had confirmed it doesnt split NCDs. She noted 
that although LV had said it had acted in accordance with industry standards, she thought 
this was a misuse of terminology and didnt think it was trying to mislead Mrs D intentionally.
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators view and so the matter has been referred to me to 
make a final decision. Mrs D said the wording in the terms and conditions is unclear and she 
didnt think there is anything in the contract to say she couldnt balance previously earned 
NCDs between cars.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, there are no set rules determining how insurers apply NCDs. As a 
result, some insurers will apply NCDs differently to others. So I dont think LV have acted 
unfairly in deciding not to split the NCD between Mrs Ds two cars. Thats a business 
decision its entitled to take. But I would expect an insurer to make the situation sufficiently 
clear in the policy documents and/or the sales process.
Mrs D has said there isnt anything in the policy documents given to her by LV that 
specifically says she cant transfer part of the NCD from one car to another. While thats true, 
theres also nothing to say she can. And when Mrs D contacted LV as part of the renewal 
process to ask if she could transfer part of the NCDs from Car A to Car B, she was given a 
definitive response  it said it wouldnt do that. So, Mrs D was in no doubt before she 
renewed her policy that LV wouldnt split the NCD. She then had the option of accepting LVs 
renewal quote or going elsewhere. As such, I dont think this caused her any financial 
disadvantage. 
So, in light of the above, I dont think LV has treated Mrs D unfairly in refusing to split her 
NCD between the two cars on her policy. 
That said, I can understand why Mrs D was upset at being told by LV that its approach to 
NCDs was industry standard when she knew other insurers would take a different approach 
and split NCDs. I can see that this would have been frustrating and might perhaps have 
caused some confusion. But LV recognised it got this wrong and apologised for that. In light 
of the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has apologised to Mrs D for the poor 
service it provided when explaining its approach, and I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances. I dont think it needs to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman