DRN-2717198
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have reduced his credit 
limit.
What happened
Barclaycard asked Mr B for income information which he provided to them. Barclaycard then 
wrote to Mr B and explained that they were reducing his credit limit from £15,750 to £250 
based on the information they have on him. Mr B complained to Barclaycard about this. He 
said while he didnt have a problem with them reducing his credit limit, he thought the extent 
of the reduction was too excessive.
Barclaycard did not uphold his complaint. Barclaycard said that as a responsible lender they 
routinely complete checks on the level of credit they make available to their customers to 
ensure it remains affordable to them. This takes into account information from the 
customers credit file along with how the account had been managed. Barclaycard 
acknowledged that Mr B had managed the account well and had always paid off the balance 
in full. But, based on their terms and conditions theyd lowered the credit limit to an amount 
they felt was affordable for Mr B.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint as 
under the terms and conditions of the Barclaycard, they were able to make changes to Mr 
Bs credit limit based on his account history, information obtained from within their banking 
group, information obtained from credit reference agencies and any other information they 
feel is appropriate. The investigator added that as a service were unable to dictate who a 
business lends to or make any proposals on any lending limits.
While Mr B originally accepted the view of the investigator, he later asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint as he said the credit limit was reduced to a ridiculously 
low level. He wanted to know why Barclaycard made the decision that they made and 
whether it was based on his age. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by explaining that its not the role of this service to say how a business should 
run their processes. Barclaycard are entitled to make a business decision to reduce Mr Bs 
credit limit based on the terms and conditions of the account. however, Ive looked to see if 
Barclaycard have followed their own process in reducing Mr Bs credit limit and Im satisfied 
they have and that theyve treated Mr B fairly, even if he doesnt see it this way. Ill explain 
why below.
The first thing Ive looked at are the terms and conditions here. Section six of the terms and 
conditions states We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account 
usage and history, information from other parts of the Barclays group, information we receive 
from credit reference agencies, and any other information we think is relevant. Well tell you 
what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then review it from time to 
time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know.  This is what Barclaycard did 
here. They reviewed his credit limit and based on the information available to them they 
made a business decision to reduce his credit limit and wrote to inform him of that. Thats a 
decision Im satisfied Barclaycard were entitled to make.
I also think they acted fairly in doing this. I know that Mr B asked why Barclaycard took the 
decision they did and if it was based on his age. Ive looked at the letter he was sent 
regarding the credit limit reduction. Im satisfied that the letter confirms that the main 
decision to reduce his credit limit is based on the income information that Mr B had 
previously sent Barclaycard. The letter also states that if Mr Bs income changes in the future 
then he should let them know so they can ensure that he has a credit limit which is right for 
him. The letter also confirms they will regularly review his credit limit and they may be in 
touch with him with an update in the future. So Im not persuaded that the decision had 
anything to do with Mr Bs age.
Barclaycard have a duty to ensure they lend responsibly. Based on the information available 
to them they felt that keeping Mr Bs credit limit at the level it previously was could be 
irresponsible, even if Mr B had always made his payments on time and in full. So while they 
reduced the credit limit considerably, Im not persuaded that this was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. So it follows that I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman