DRN-4191496
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Zopa Bank Limited are pursuing her for a loan that was taken out as 
part of a scam. Mrs C wants Zopa to clear the loan, interest and charges. 
What happened
In 2022 Mrs C came into contact with a merchant after she read an article about Bitcoin. 
After speaking with the merchant about trading in cryptocurrency she exchanged her 
personal details with them. Shortly afterwards, in July 2022, a loan was applied for with Zopa 
for £13,000. 
Mrs C then allowed the merchant access to her online accounts to try and make a payment 
(of the loan funds) from her account towards her investment. When this payment was 
blocked, she was told by the merchant to go into a branch and make the payment and to tell 
the staff that the transfer was for home improvements and no third-party was involved in the 
transfer or had access to her accounts. Mrs C followed these instructions, and the money 
was then sent to another account in her name that the merchant had opened for her before 
being forwarded to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. 
Mrs C then saw that a further loan had been taken out with another loan provider. At this 
point she contacted her bank to say that she had been scammed. 
Mrs C made a complaint to Zopa and asked it to write off the loan. Zopa considered the 
complaint. It said the loan was applied for using Mrs Cs genuine details so her mobile and 
e-mail wouldve received confirmation messages about the loan. And it conducted 
reasonable checks on her credit file to assess her affordability. It added that in a 
conversation with Mrs C she told Zopa that she was made aware of the loan in her name, 
she saw the loan funds in her bank account and then allowed a third-party access to her 
accounts to make a payment. So, it agreed to write off the interest and remove the loan from 
Mrs Cs credit file, but it confirmed that it she will need to repay the capital amount.
Mrs C remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mrs C had been 
the victim of a scam but she wasnt satisfied that Mrs C didnt have knowledge of the loan. 
Thats because Mrs C said that she saw the funds go into her bank account and asked the 
scammers to return them to Zopa. But the scammers told her to go into her bank and ask it 
to transfer the money back to Zopa. And Mrs C listened to the scammers and lied to her 
bank about the reason she was transferring the money (home improvements) and that no 
third party was involved in the transfer, nor did they have access to her device. 
After visiting the branch, the loan funds were transferred to an account in Mrs Cs name 
before being moved to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. The investigator said that she 
thought it was unlikely that Mrs C thought the loan funds were being sent back to Zopa whilst 
allowing some of the money to be moved in such a way without trying to stop it. So, the 
investigator didnt think she could reasonably ask Zopa to write off the loan. 
Mrs C disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said that when she 
realised the scammers had taken out another loan she contacted her bank straightaway. 
And her bank had confirmed that she was the victim of a scam. So, the outstanding loan with 
Zopa should be written off. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not asking Zopa to do anything further, and Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
To decide this complaint, I need to consider whether Mrs C willingly applied for this loan and 
its terms and conditions. And whether Zopa has treated her unfairly by holding her liable for 
the capital amount. 
Ive considered Mrs Cs testimony about how the scam unfolded carefully. But having done 
so I dont think I can reasonably say to Zopa that she wasnt aware of the loan when it was 
applied for. The application was completed in her name and Zopa said it sent messages to 
her mobile and e-mail address. 
Im persuaded that Mrs Cs actions here show that  on balance - she was more than likely 
aware of the loan. Thats because when the loan funds were paid into her account, I dont 
think she acted reasonably in the circumstances. If Mrs C had no knowledge of a loan being 
taken out to finance her investment account, then allowing the payment to be made by a 
third party from her online account, going into branch to send it to another account in her 
name and being told to lie to the branch about the true purpose of the transfer isnt what Id 
consider to be reasonable behaviour in all the circumstances. 
As a result of the above, I cant say Zopa has treated Mrs C unfairly by asking her to repay 
the £13,000, deciding to write off interest/charges and removing the loan from her credit file.
I know this will not be the outcome Mrs C was hoping for and she will be disappointed with 
the decision Ive reached. I understand this has been a very difficult experience for her. But 
this final decision ends what our service can do for her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman