DRN-3614204
The complaint
Mr W complains about advice he received from a representative of Co-operative Insurance
Society (CIS), now part of Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London)
to set up a personal pension scheme instead of joining his employers occupational pension
scheme. Mr W says he wasnt properly compensated when the advice was later reviewed.
Mr W is represented in bringing his complaint by a claims management company.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 27 June 2022. Ive repeated here what I said about the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
The advice by CIS to set up a personal pension plan rather than join Mr Ws employer
defined contribution scheme was given in November 1989. It was reviewed as part of the
industrywide Pension Review instructed by the regulator at the time, the Securities &
Investment Board (SIB). The redress calculation showed that Mr W had suffered a loss as
the value of benefits he wouldve had in his employers scheme was greater than the
benefits provided by his CIS policy. Redress was offered on 28 September 1998 to apply a
single premium to the policy of £3,054.74 effective from 1 August 1998. The offer was
accepted by Mr W on 20 October 1998, in full and final settlement.
I understand that Mr Ws representative contacted Royal London in 2021 seeking
information. Royal London treated an email from Mr Ws representative on 11 March 2021
as a complaint. In that email Mr Ws representative said the redress methodology used
previously wasnt appropriate, as it assumed the employer contributions wouldve been
invested in the CIS Life Fund, even though the advice to contribute to that Fund was what
was found to have been unsuitable. Mr Ws representative said a new redress calculation
should be undertaken, using the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return Index, which it
was suggested would be appropriate for an investor with a cautious attitude to risk.
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. It said the sale had been reviewed as part of the
Pension Review. The purpose was to restore the customer, as far as possible, to the
position theyd have been in, had they joined their employers pension scheme, rather than
taken out a personal pension. The calculations at the time indicated that the value of benefits
that wouldve been provided by Mr Ws employers scheme were greater than the benefits
provided by his CIS policy. As Mr Ws employers scheme were unable able to offer
reinstatement, redress was offered. The methodology was in line with the regulators
guidance at the time.
The lost employer contributions could be valued by accumulating them at either:
the actual return they wouldve earned under the employers scheme; or
the return they wouldve earned if theyd been invested in the personal pension
suitably adjusted for the difference in charges.
The latter approach may be used on the basis that the investor understood the investment
risk and chose to accept it and if theres no evidence to the contrary on the file. If another
method has been used the firm should be able to demonstrate that this doesnt disadvantage
the investor. Here the redress was calculated on a zero charge basis. Royal London said it
wasnt the CIS Fund that was unsuitable  the redress was because Mr W had missed out
on employer contributions. The CIS Fund couldve outperformed the employers fund and
redress would still be payable.
Royal London also said that all payments had been invested in the RL CIS OB & IB Fund
which is a traditional or conventional with profits fund. Charges to cover expenses, including
the costs of managing the policy and its underlying investments, are taken. A cap applies to
ensure the charges are no higher than those set for a stakeholder pension  so the total
expenses wont exceed 1% of the value of the pension pot each year. Policy fees dont differ
based on the premium size and no policy fee is payable if the policy is paid up. Bid/offer
spread isnt applicable to the policy, nor are market value adjustments and no transfer
charges apply.
The complaint was referred to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the Pension
Review was designed to be a one-off way to establish any potential loss and pay any
compensation. And, once the review had been carried out, based on the assumptions that
firms were required to use at the time, further reviews werent required. Unfortunately, the
assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent, in hindsight, turned out as
expected. Investments returns have been much lower than predicted and annuity rates have
fallen. This has meant many people may have ended up with a shortfall in their personal
pensions compared to what they wouldve had with their employers pension.
But that wasnt grounds to repeat the calculation. It appeared that Royal London did carry
out a review in 1998 in accordance with the guidelines set out by the regulator at the time.
Mr W accepted Royal Londons offer in full and final settlement of any claim in respect of the
pension advice. Royal London didnt need to undertake any further calculations regardless of
any updated guidance.
Mr Ws representative didnt accept the investigators view. It said it was taking legal advice.
But we havent since received any further comments from Mr Ws representative.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aside from what Ive said below about the fund in which Mr Ws contributions were invested,
I havent considered the advice as such and whether it was suitable for Mr W. Thats
because Royal London did carry out a loss calculation and paid redress and so effectively
conceded that the advice hadnt been suitable. The complaint is more about the review and
the compensation that was paid to Mr W. The issue I need to decide is if Royal London
reviewed the advice Mr W received in accordance with the regulators guidance and whether
Royal London now needs to do anything more to put things right.
As the investigator has explained, the Pension Review was designed to be a one-off
exercise and was implemented to rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers, as far
as possible, back in the position theyd have been, if they hadnt received poor advice. The
methodology for putting things right - usually by way of a lump sum pension contribution 
was set by the then regulator. Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought
were fair at the time, were used in the redress calculations  including the expected future
growth rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement. Most reviews
were done between 1994 and 2003 and the assumptions were revised regularly during thattime.
Unfortunately, in many cases, the assumed growth rates used in the calculations havent
materialised. This, combined with annuity rates falling, has had an impact on the benefits
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following
the review plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the
employers pension scheme at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many
consumers.
But that, in itself, isnt a reason to redo the review and recalculate compensation. The
Pension Review was designed to provide finality to both parties and draw a line under the
matter. Businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that they wouldnt be liable
for future compensation. And consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling had been
recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be reasonable
assumptions and without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was
designed for complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after
3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full and
final settlement already. It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension
Review period would be excluded from the updated guidance. But, after the consultation
period, FG17/9 said some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt
review the relevant pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the
time and/or where the particular circumstances of the case werent addressed by those
standards.
Mr Ws representative hasnt suggested that the Pension Review calculations were done
incorrectly. As Mr Ws employers scheme was a money purchase, not a final salary,
scheme, the redress calculations wouldve been more straightforward. The complaint seems
to centre on the Fund that Mr Ws contributions were invested in and by reference to which
redress was calculated.
I understand Royal Londons point that it wasnt the Fund that made the advice unsuitable,
rather the fact that Mr W had missed out on employer contributions. But Ive still looked at
the Fund. Ive set out details about the Fund - the RL CIS OB & IB Fund  above, along with
the charges that apply.
Looking at the charges first, its unclear what information Mr W was given about charges at
the time. But, given what Royal London has said about the charges being capped so as not
to exceed those for stakeholder pensions, I dont think I can say the Fund was unsuitable
from a charges perspective.
As to the Fund itself, with-profits funds were popular at the time. I accept, just because a
recommendation to invest all contributions in a single, with-profits fund may have been
common at the time, that doesnt mean it must have been suitable. But Im not looking at
fund choice which the benefit of hindsight.
With-profits funds generally offer greater growth potential than cash and are lower risk than
stocks and shares or equity funds. With-profits funds aim to achieve steady growth and
avoid being subject to stock market fluctuations by using smoothed returns  whereby
some of the returns earned in good investment years are held back to enable bonuses to
be paid when investment returns arent so good. At the time Mr Ws policy was sold, with-
profits funds were reasonably regarded as a suitable investment for an investor who didnt
want to take much risk.More recently, with-profits funds have fallen out of favour. Investment conditions havent
remained as favourable and regular or annual bonuses have fallen and, in some case, have
been zero for some years. Final bonuses have reduced too. Although investors were
generally happy when regular bonuses were being paid and terminal bonuses were also
healthy, more recent performance has caused investors to question how their money is
being invested and managed. With-profits funds have attracted criticism for their lack of
transparency and it can be difficult for policyholders to be satisfied that they are receiving
what they are entitled to under their policy.
Royal London, along with other with-profits fund providers, is accountable to the industry
regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) for the way in which it operates its with-
profits fund (in accordance with its Principles and Practices of Financial Management
document). And the regulator monitors the management of it. Businesses are required to
appoint a with-profits actuary and the FCA provides rules and guidance on their duties. The
aim is to ensure that with-profits policyholders are treated fairly.
If Mr W has any concerns about how the Fund is managed or operated, hell need to refer
those to the regulator. Im unaware of any concerns the regulator has about the Fund.
Im not sure what Mr Ws attitude to risk was at the time. From what his representative has
said, it seems Mr W may have been a cautious investor (although if that was the case I dont
think the index suggested by Mr Ws representative to calculate compensation would be
appropriate). I dont think a with-profits fund was unsuitable for someone who didnt want to
take much risk.
All in all Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. The Pension Review was a one-off exercise
and in 1998 Mr W agreed a final settlement in respect of the advice he received. Only in
limited circumstances would I look beyond that. That might include where the calculation
may have been undertaken incorrectly. But that hasnt been suggested here. And, as Ive
explained, I dont think investing all of Mr Ws contributions in the providers with-profits fund
was unsuitable from a charges perspective or otherwise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We havent had any further comments from Mr W, his representative or Royal London in 
response to my provisional decision. 
In the absence of any further information, evidence or arguments, my views remain as set 
out in my provisional decision. 
Ive repeated above in full my provisional findings and these form part of this decision. 
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Lesley SteadOmbudsman