DRN-1979794
The complaint
Ms Z complains about how U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") dealt with a claim she made under 
her insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Z was involved in an accident where she was hit from behind and her car suffered 
damage. Ms Z made a claim to UKI but was disappointed when it said it would be settling 
the claim on a 50% liability basis.  Ms Z doesn't think this is fair, she maintains she wasn't at 
fault for the accident and  believes UKI hasn't investigated the circumstances of the accident 
properly. Ms Z is also unhappy she has to pay her full excess of £250. 
Ms Z complained to UKI about the claim decision and also the service she received during 
the course of her claim. Some of the issues mentioned were that; she was told after three 
months of using the car, it was unroadworthy, which caused her worry.  She wasn't given the 
information she'd asked for about the cost of repairing the car, She was told her car was 
considered uneconomical to repair (a total loss) just before Christmas, the hire car was 
taken off her before a settlement had been made, she had to talk to many different people 
which meant she had to repeat herself and she doesn't feel that UKI's representatives dealt 
with her sympathetically.
UKI explained that it made the decision on liability after considering all of the information 
available to it. It pointed out that both parties were reversing and there were no 
independent witnesses, so it felt a 50/50 settlement was the best that could be achieved. As 
Ms Z had made a claim she would need to pay the full excess, however it would try and help 
claim half of the excess from the third party. 
UKI said its engineer had made an error on his report and Ms Z's car was drivable. It 
apologised that she was told she could be sent the full engineers report with repair costs as  
this wasn't something that would usually be sent out, it considered repair costs to be 
confidential information between itself and it's suppliers. It pointed out that a hire car is 
usually withdrawn once a total loss decision is made but in this case it was extended for a 
further three weeks until the new year. UKI admitted that at times it's level of service could 
have been improved so it offered Ms Z £30 for the cost of the calls she had made and £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she'd been caused. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She said UKI had 
reached its claims decision reasonably after considering the information available, and that it 
was entitled to ask Ms Z for the whole excess payment.  The investigator thought UKI had 
acknowledged Ms Z's points and it's offer to pay for the cost of calls and level of 
compensation offered was reasonable. 
Ms Z disagreed, she reiterated that she didn't think UKI had properly taken into account her 
daughter's statement and she remains unhappy with the liability decision made. Ms Z also 
reiterated that she had been driving around in her car for three months to then be told it was 
considered a total loss.The case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Z has very strong views on the accident and how UKI should have dealt
with her claim. My role here isn't to decide which party was responsible for the accident, 
what I need to decide is if UKI has acted reasonably in reaching its decision to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 basis.
I can assure Ms Z I have taken into account all of her points and the information she has 
provided, however I will concentrate my decision on what I think are the main points of the 
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service and my role in it.
Ms Z's policy contains a term which allows UKI to take over and deal with the claim as it 
sees fit. Which, may involve it settling the claim on what it sees as the best terms possible. 
In this instance, UKI has settled the claim on a 50/50 basis where each insurer agrees to 
cover 50% of the others costs.  I don't think UKI has acted unreasonably by doing this, I'll 
explain why.
Ms Z has said her daughter was a passenger in the car but UKI hasn't taken into account 
her statement and she objects to the way her daughter was questioned about the incident.  
UKI say that as Ms Z's daughter didn't witness the accident or the impact, her 
statement doesn't support Ms Z's version of events that she had stopped before the third 
party hit her. It didn't think it's questioning style was inappropriate given the circumstances.
Where two parties are performing reversing manoeuvres and there are no independent 
witnesses to an event, the claim effectively comes down to being one person's word against 
another. It isn't unusual in circumstances such as this for insurers to agree to a 50/50 
settlement as neither party is in a strong position to prove their version of events. What I'd be 
looking to see is that UKI took into account all of the information available to it before making 
this decision. And, on the evidence i have available i think it did, so i won't be asking it to 
reconsider this decision.  
Ms Z is unhappy she has had to pay the full excess when the claim has been settled 50/50. 
Excess is considered an uninsured loss - it's the proportion of claim costs a policyholder has 
agreed they will be responsible for.  UKI hasn't done anything wrong by asking Ms Z for the 
full payment as it is entitled to under the policy. Usually it is then for a policyholder to try and 
reclaim this from the third party, although in this case, UKI has said it will try and assist Ms Z 
here.  
Ms Z has said she was unhappy that after driving the car for three months she was then told 
it was unroadworthy and beyond economical repair. I can see from the system notes Ms Z 
was told after the accident that her car was safe to drive and the decision was made to wait 
for liability to be established before any action was taken to address the damage caused to 
the car.  Ms Z asked for a copy of the engineers report once it had been completed. Ms Z did 
raise the fact the report said the car was unroadworthy but I can see she was made aware 
quite quickly the engineer had made an error on his report by failing to change the option on 
that section of the report, to reflect the fact the car was in fact drivable. 
The policy terms say that where Ms Z's car is damaged as a result of an accident, UKI will 
either pay for it to be repaired or pay a cash sum representing no more than the market value of the car. Because the damage to the car would cost a lot to repair, UKI offered Ms Z 
a cash sum to represent the market value of the car. I think this was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I understand Ms Z wanted to know how much UKI's engineer thought the car would cost to 
repair but this wasn't something UKI had to tell her.  Those costings only represented the 
cost to UKI and wouldn't necessarily reflect what it would cost a policyholder if a private 
repair was arranged. It's decision to pay Ms Z the market value of the car was inline with the 
policy terms, so I think UKI acted reasonably here.  
When a decision is made to declare a car uneconomical to repair it is usual that at that point 
any hire car cover comes to an end. I can see UKI kept Ms Z in a hire car until the start of 
January. There's always some inconvenience when a car is declared uneconomical to repair 
and decisions have to be made about how to move forward and I appreciate this happened 
at a time of year which ordinarily can be stressful. However i don't think UKI acted 
unreasonably here in making the decision when it did and the hire car cover was extended 
past when it usually would be.
To reflect the poor service Ms Z received during the course of the claim UKI offered Ms Z 
£30 for the cost of calls she had to make and £50 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience she'd been caused. Having reviewed everything i think this is fair and 
reasonable so i won't be asking UKI to make any further payment. If Ms Z has not received 
these payments she should contact UKI directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Ms Z's claim against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman