DRN-2845525
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society refused him a new mortgage that would 
have allowed him to port his existing mortgage because he had taken a payment holiday. Mr 
D would like compensation for moneys he has lost and details regarding his credit score.
What happened
Mr D and his wife were divorcing. They had a mortgage with Nationwide and a fixed rate 
product with an early repayment charge (ERC) that was payable if the mortgage was 
redeemed early but could be ported subject to Nationwides lending criteria. In March 2020 
Mr D got a three-month payment holiday as his employment was affected by the Covid 
pandemic. Mr D got a  decision in principle (DIP) in July 2020 from Nationwide for a new 
mortgage of £95,298 over 18 years with which he hoped to buy a flat and port his mortgage 
product. But Nationwide didnt issue a mortgage offer. Mr D was told four weeks later that 
the most they could offer was £87,000 over 16 years. But then Nationwide told Mr D that 
both offers were declined because he had taken a three-month payment holiday during the 
pandemic. Mr D sold his home and paid an ERC.
Nationwide says that although it issued a DIP that was not a mortgage offer and when the 
application was looked at by an underwriter it was declined. An application for a smaller 
amount was also declined by the underwriter. Nationwide says that although a payment 
holiday doesnt affect Mr Ds credit file it will form part of an overall assessment together with 
all other information. Nationwide said that because of Mr Ds frustrations with its service it 
was paying Mr D compensation of £200. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  Her view was that it 
was reasonable for Nationwide  to consider the impact the Covid pandemic had on his 
employment and to decide that it was unwilling to lend to Mr D. Mr D disagreed saying that 
he had been adversely affected by the payment holiday and had no problem when he 
applied for the same mortgage with another lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D like many people took a payment holiday on his mortgage in the spring of 2020 and 
was told that it wouldnt impact his credit file. But he then found that when he applied for a 
new mortgage that it was refused after Nationwide had given him a DIP indicating that it was 
likely that it would give him a mortgage. Mr D has been able to get a mortgage elsewhere 
but had to pay an ERC and legal fees because he couldnt port.
The issue here is whether it was reasonable for Nationwide to refuse Mr D a new mortgage. 
It strikes me that this was an issue of timing. At any other time, I expect based on his normal 
income Mr D may not have had a difficulty getting a mortgage. The DIP issued by 
Nationwide indicated that. But a DIP isnt a mortgage offer and it appears that at this time, in 
a period of economic recession, where there was likely a severe hit on Mr Ds income that 
Nationwide considered that Mr D wouldnt be able to maintain the mortgage. Mr D was in a 
business that was being severely impacted by the pandemic. The fact that Mr D asked for a 
payment holiday and that he was self-employed seems to have caused the underwriter to 
have reviewed the application. But the refusal was based on whether it looked like Mr D was 
capable of maintaining the mortgage payments and the underwriter decided in the 
circumstances of the time that Mr D was not.
Its a matter for Nationwide to decide whether it wanted to take on this new mortgage, but it 
must give fair consideration to the application. It seems to have given it the appropriate 
consideration but at the time was not prepared to approve it. I know Mr D was concerned 
whether his credit file was affected by the payment holiday. But as Mr D got a mortgage 
elsewhere that doesnt appear to have been the case. My view was that this application 
wasnt affected by the payment holiday rather it was the circumstances that led Mr D to ask 
for one - namely the likely fall in his income which would have been a relevant consideration 
in the assessment of his new mortgage application and seems to have led to its refusal. So, 
for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman