DRN-3596415
The complaint
Mr M complains that Freetrade Limited (Freetrade) has prevented him from closing his 
account due to a minimum order limit. 
What happened
Mr M wanted to close his general investment account he has with Freetrade, to do so, Mr M 
was told that he will need to sell his existing shares within the application software. 
Mr M attempted to sell his shares but couldnt, when he contacted Freetrade about this he 
was told, to sell his shares the value of each share needs to be at least £2.00. So, Mr M 
would need to purchase further shares in order to sell his existing holdings. Mr M was not 
happy about this and so he complained. 
Freetrade looked into Mr Ms concerns but it didnt uphold the complaint, in short it said it 
was able to make alterations to accounts enabling UK shares to be sold for less than £2.00 
but this is not the case for US shares. The only option is for Mr M to buy more shares to 
bring each holding above £2.00 and then sell the whole amount after. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service, our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. In summary he said that Freetrade had acted in line with its terms and 
conditions, so he didnt think it had acted unfairly.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
Freetrade has provided its FAQs which is available to its customers (including Mr M) 
on its website. In particular, I find this extract most relevant to the circumstances of 
this complaint: 
If youd like to close your account, youll need to sell any shares you hold and 
withdraw all money from your Freetrade account. 
I am satisfied that this informs customers of the steps necessary to close their 
account. I think this information is clear, it sets out that Mr M will need to sell his 
shares in order to close his account which I dont think is unreasonable.
 
Further, Freetrades terms and conditions, which Mr M agreed to when he opened his 
account, do cover circumstances which are relevant to this complaint. At section 14.1 
the terms say that: 
The minimum order amount for any buy or sell Instruction is £2.00. Orders for less 
than this minimum order amount will not ordinarily be permitted. If you hold a position 
in a Security which is worth less than £2.00 (for example, if the market value of your 
position falls, if you sell part of your position, or as a result of a corporate action on 
that Security), you may not be able to sell this position. In order to sell the position, 
you may need to buy more of this Security so that you own a position worth more 
than £2.00 and are then able to sell your position in this Security. In circumstances 
where this is not possible, you may not be able to sell your position.
Im satisfied Mr M was bound by the term above when he opened his account. 
And Im satisfied Clause 14.1 made it reasonably clear to Mr M that in order to sell 
his shares the minimum order amount will need to be at least £2.00. Where a 
security might be worth less than this, Freetrade explain he may not be able to sell 
this position.  
We offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by
customers about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances  but we wouldnt normally interfere with a
businesss legitimate commercial decision.
I understand Mr M is concerned about the cost of having to buy shares only to sell 
them shortly after. So, Ive thought about why Freetrade require its customers to 
have a minimum order amount. It has explained that this is imposed by its Foreign 
Exchange provider and its not something it can change. I consider that to be a 
legitimate commercial decision of Freetrade and Im not persuaded that theres a 
requirement for it to sell US shares where the value is less than £2.00.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms concerns, I cant say Freetrade has done anything wrong, 
it acted in line with its terms and conditions  which Mr M agreed to. 
For these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome, 
Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman