DRN-4240297
The complaint
Miss L complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) who failed to cancel 
her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss L held policies for two devices. She said that after she had received poor service 
following a failed repair, she requested that the policies be cancelled. Miss L said that she 
made several calls to ensure that the policies had been cancelled and was told by D&G that 
they had been. 
Later she noticed that D&G were still taking premiums from her, and she contacted them to 
make a complaint. D&G told Miss L that it only had one call record on 28 April 2022 and 
during that call, Miss L didnt say that she wanted to cancel the policies. Miss L said that she 
had called a number of times to cancel the policies and had been told it had been done. She 
wanted a full refund of the premiums that had been taken, that she said she hadnt 
authorised.
In its final response, D&G maintained its position, that Miss L hadnt told it to cancel the 
policies. So, it wouldnt be refunding any of the premiums she paid. As Miss L was given her 
referral rights, she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that D&G had submitted its call logs, system notes and repair logs. And that it hadnt 
received any contact from Miss L during the relevant period. She said that one call that it did 
receive from Miss L, the parties spoke about the devices, but Miss L didnt cancel the 
policies. So, she couldnt recommend that D&G refund any of Miss Ls premiums, as she 
thought Miss L hadnt correctly cancelled the policies. 
D&G accepted the view, Miss L did not. She said that she had proof from her mobile phone 
provider that she had contacted D&G several times and she relied upon the call records in 
support. She said that this proved that D&G had lied about the number of times that she had 
contacted them. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Miss L, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered all the evidence and comments made by both parties, to make a decision on 
an impartial basis. In doing so, I think the main issue of this complaint was whether Miss L 
had provided sufficient evidence to show that she had instructed D&G to cancel her policies.  
So, Ive had a look into this. 
Miss L said that she had two devices covered under policies she held with D&G. She said 
that she had to have the devices repaired but was unhappy with the standard of the repair, 
so she contacted D&G to cancel the policies in May 2022. She said that she noticed that 
D&G had continued to take premiums from her and complained. 
D&G said that Miss L hadnt contacted them to cancel the policies. D&G provided call logs, 
system notes, as well as repair notes to show that Miss L hadnt contacted them from April to 
October 2022. D&G said that when it spoke with Miss L in 2022, they spoke about the 
devices but at no time did Miss L ask for the policies to be cancelled.  
I have listened to the call recording (28 April 2022), and I can confirm that during the 
conversation, Miss L did not ask for the policies to be cancelled. Further, D&G wouldve 
issued Miss L with a cancellation confirmation. But Miss L hasnt provided this to me. And 
D&G has confirmed that no cancellation documents were generated. 
Miss L has provided me with several call records. And although, she hadnt provided me with 
details of what took place during each of those calls, she says that these calls were made to 
instruct D&G to cancel the policies.
The call logs show that Miss L contacted D&G on 3 March 2022, 20 April 2022, 28 April 
2022 and 13 November 2022. I dont think that the calls made on 3 March and 20 April 2022 
are relevant to the complaint. I say this as Miss L didnt make a claim on the policies until 28 
April 2022  the call recording in which she made a claim for the repair of the devices.
Consequently, I think the only call, in which Miss L might have asked for the cancellation 
would have been on 13 November 2022. I asked D&G if it had a call recording for that day, 
given that the log indicates that there was a call for around 37 minutes. 
D&G explained that the call took place on a Sunday. And although it was open on a Sunday, 
it provided a very limited service, which invariably meant that it was possible that Miss L was 
holding on to speak to an advisor. And although she called, she didnt wait to speak to an 
agent, which was why there wasnt a call recording. 
Miss L said that these calls showed that she had contacted D&G and she couldnt 
understand why D&G would say that there was no record of contact. 
Where there is a dispute on the evidence, we look at what is more likely than not to have 
happened. As I mentioned, I wouldve expected Miss L to have been provided with 
cancellation documentation. She hasnt provided this. Nor has she provided details of what 
she said took place during the call on 13 November 2022. Consequently, Im more 
persuaded than not, that Miss L did make a call to D&G on 13 November 2022 but was 
unlikely to have spoken to an agent on that day. If she had, I would have expected a call 
recording (as there was one produced for the 28 April call) and confirmation of cancellation 
documentation. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions. It states that once a cancellation request 
has been made, then all premium payments would be stopped. I cant agree that Miss L 
made a successful cancellation request, as the premiums continued to be taken until she 
had made a successful request, and the premiums stopped. In addition, she has been unable to provide me with any cancellation documentation, which she wouldve received had 
she successfully cancelled the policies.
I acknowledge Miss Ls strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that D&G were successfully told by Miss L to cancel the policies, 
in May 2022. Nor do I agree that it unfairly took premium payments from her. Accordingly, I 
am unable to reasonably ask D&G to refund the premium payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman