DRN-1946843
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about irresponsible lending made to him by Vanquis Bank Limited. 
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Vanquis. He said Vanquis increased his credit limit a 
number of times. He didnt think those increases were affordable for him. He said Vanquis 
shouldve noticed he was at his limit and making minimum payments. He said he had 
payday loans and mortgage arrears at the time, and these increases just pushed him further 
into debt. He wanted Vanquis to pay back the interest and late payment fees hed been 
charged. 
Vanquis said it carried out checks each time it had offered a credit limit increase to Mr M, 
and it thought these were affordable for him. It noted that the letter it sends when it offers a 
customer a credit limit increase reminds the customer to stay within their current credit limit. 
If they dont keep within the current credit limit until they have confirmation that the credit 
limit has been increased, or if they fail to make a monthly payment, then Vanquis wont 
increase the limit. 
Vanquis noted that Mr M had made cash withdrawals, but said this is only one risk factor to 
consider when thinking about whether it can raise a credit limit. It didnt think the way Mr M 
used his card overall was a cause for concern. Vanquis noted that Mr M regularly made 
repayments in excess of the minimum. And it saw no increase in external lending, which 
might have suggested Mr M was borrowing to pay off his card. Vanquis didnt think it had 
been irresponsible in offering these lending increases to Mr M.
Mr M contacted us again, to say that he thought guidance on making sure customers can 
afford credit had been breached in his case. He said that after he first took out the card, he 
got additional late payment markers and defaults, and had taken out a lot of other credit. 
Vanquis had told us that Mr M didnt have additional lending overall, and only one additional 
default since the card was taken out.
Our investigator said that Mr M had four credit limit increases within the relevant period. 
Those were in April 2014, September 2014, May 2015 and November 2016. An earlier limit 
increase offer in February 2014, hadnt been granted as Mr M didnt keep his account within 
its existing limits before the offer was applied. 
Our investigator looked closely at each of those limit increases, but he didnt think Vanquis 
had done anything wrong. He also considered Mr Ms credit report, and that showed that Mr 
M had opened most of his current credit facilities a long time after the last limit increase from 
Vanquis. He thought Mr Ms financial difficulties happened well after his last limit increase. 
Our investigator said he wouldnt suggest Vanquis took any further action. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said he had many payday loans and cash advances, and was 
frequently over his limit. He said hed finally taken a secured loan to clear his card, otherwise he wouldve taken years to clear the balance. He wanted his case to be reviewed, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Our investigator said that he was considering credit limit increases made from 15 July 
2013. He said that meant there were four credit limit increases within scope. I think 
theres an earlier limit increase, in November 2013, which is also in scope. I note that 
Vanquis itself also considered that limit increase when it replied to Mr Ms complaint.
So the first credit limit increase I can consider as part of this complaint was offered in 
September 2013, and made in November 2013. Mr M missed a payment in July, and 
his account was overlimit in August. But overall, Ive not been able to decide 
that Vanquis should've known then that it would be irresponsible to offer Mr M a limit 
increase. 
Aside from being slightly over his credit limit in March 2014, MR M's card seems to 
have been managed relatively well until a further limit increase in June 2014. Vanquis 
told us his overall debt position had slightly improved at that time. So I dont think it 
was irresponsible for Vanquis to offer him this credit limit increase either. 
Mr M was offered another limit increase relatively quickly, in September 2014. This 
took his limit up to £3,000. Again, aside from having been slightly over his credit limit 
in August 2014, his card seems to have been managed relatively well until then. And 
again, Vanquis told us his overall debt position had slightly improved. 
Mr M told us that he started to take out payday loans in early 2015. Many of those no 
longer show on his credit record, but I expect they wouldve been visible at the time. 
And, worryingly, Mr M went straight over his new £3,000 credit limit in the month it was 
applied to his account. He remained over this limit each month, until May 2015. In May 
2015, Mr M was offered a further credit limit increase, to £3,500. 
Instances of exceeding a card credit limit are a potential risk factor for credit card 
lenders when they are considering offering an unsolicited credit limit increase. 
Guidance for credit card providers states that card limit increases are not to be offered 
in circumstances where the balance currently exceeds the limit. It may not break the 
letter of these rules to wait until immediately after someones had an extended period 
of being over their credit limit, and then offer an unsolicited limit as soon as the 
account is back within limits. But I think it clearly breaches the spirit of these rules. I 
dont think its reasonable to make an unsolicited offer of a credit card limit increase in 
these circumstances. 
I think that the management of Mr Ms card in the months immediately preceding the 
May 2015 offer were a cause for concern. I dont think this limit increase was clearly 
affordable for Mr M, and I dont think it shouldve been granted. 
This limit increase was applied in July 2015. 
Mr M was offered a further limit increase in November 2016. He was within his credit 
limit that month. But hed been over his limit for each month for the preceding twelve 
months. For the same reasons as Ive set out above, I dont think it was reasonable for 
Vanquis to make this offer. Mr M told us he borrowed money to pay off this card in 2017.
I dont think Vanquis made a mistake by lending Mr M up to £3,000. But I think it did 
make a mistake by lending him more than this. I dont think he shouldve been offered 
credit card limit increases in July and November 2015. So I think Vanquis should 
refund to Mr M all the interest which was applied to lending over the amount of £3,000 
from the July 2015 increase in his credit limit. And I think it should also refund any 
charges it applied to his card from this period on. Vanquis should also pay interest, 
calculated at 8% simple per annum, on this refund.
I understand that this debt has now been partially settled, so I think this refund should 
be paid to Mr M. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr M accepted my decision. Vanquis said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited must refund to Mr M all the interest which was 
applied to lending over the amount of £3,000 from the July 2015 increase in Mr Ms credit 
limit. And it must refund any charges it applied to Mr Ms card from this period on. Vanquis 
Bank Limited should also pay interest, calculated at 8% simple per annum, on this refund. 
HM Revenue and Customs requires Vanquis Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Vanquis Bank Limited must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman