DRN-3343994
The complaint
Mr M complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) didnt refund him a payment he made 
using his debit card.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr M, using his Starling bankcard, paid around £5,767 towards the cost 
of a new bathroom and fitting. The total cost of the bathroom and the fitting was around 
£8,795. Mr M made this purchase from a provider which I will refer to as the Bathroom 
Provider. 
A few days later after making the payment, the bathroom was fitted by the Bathroom 
Provider. Mr M said that shortly after, he noticed issues with the quality of the fitting and with 
some of the bathroom items. Mr M said that, among other, there was missing grouting 
between the wall tiles, some of the tiles were not sitting flush to the wall, and there were 
other issues due to a non-satisfactory install, such as holes left in tiles. He also said that the 
shower head was coming away from the wall. So, in January 2020, Mr M contacted the 
Bathroom Provider. They agreed to send someone out to resolve the issues, but Mr M said 
that they failed to show up. Mr M said that he continued to try and resolve the issues by 
emailing the Bathroom Provider, but even though he was promised they would carry out the 
repairs, they havent. 
Mr M was unhappy with this, so in May 2020 he contacted Starling, seeking help to get a 
refund of money paid towards the bathroom and fitting. In his correspondence to Starling, Mr 
M said that the Bathroom Provider was in breach of contract and he requested a 
chargeback. Approximately within a day Starling acknowledged his claim and asked for 
copies of the correspondence between him and Bathroom Provider. About two weeks later 
Starling also requested some further information from Mr M, and on 19 June 2020 they 
asked him if he had requested a refund from the Bathroom Provider. They also asked him 
for a report of the outstanding repairs. Mr M told Starling that he stopped corresponding with 
the Bathroom Provider as he wasnt getting anywhere with them and said that his partner 
was shielding due to Covid-19 pandemic, so he wasnt able to get anyone to attend his 
property. 
On 30 June 2020, Starling told Mr M that in order to meet the evidential threshold for the 
chargeback to be raised, he needed to provide them documentation from an expert or a 
professional that has documented the quality issues, and the outstanding work that needs to 
be carried out. They explained that to proceed with the dispute they needed a quote detailing 
how much the repairs would cost. In further correspondence, Starling also told Mr M that for 
the chargeback under the Goods or Services Were Not as described or Defective dispute 
code, they needed documentation to support that these conditions were met, as otherwise 
they said it would be difficult to raise a chargeback without providing evidence to support the 
dispute.  
In July 2020 Starling wrote to Mr M. In this correspondence they said that photographic 
evidence would not be sufficient to satisfy Mastercards evidentiary threshold for the dispute 
to be raised. They said they needed an independent quote confirming costs associated with 
completing the repair work required. 
Mr M was not happy, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought that 
Starling acted fairly in not raising a chargeback for Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the complaint. But I want to assure both 
parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And, if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues to reach a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
A chargeback is a scheme which looks to resolve payment disputes between card holders 
and merchants. The relevant chargeback scheme in this case is run by Mastercard, and 
there is a set of rules and criteria for when disputes can be raised; such as the type of 
dispute and time limits for raising them. Merchants wishing to accept Mastercard cards as a 
form of payment from their customers need to agree to these scheme rules and criteria. And 
these rules and criteria must be followed strictly. 
I would consider it good practice for Starling to pursue a chargeback, as long as it was 
possible to do so (within the limitations of the scheme rules and criteria) and when there is a 
reasonable prospect of success. If Starling had raised the chargeback, I think most likely it 
wouldve been raised under the Goods or Services Were Either Not as Described or 
Defective dispute code. Under this section, among other things, the merchant needed to 
refuse to adjust the price, repair or replace, or issue a credit and the Goods and services did 
not conform to their description. Examples include, but are not limited to:
- The cardholder claims that the quality or workmanship of the product is not as 
described. 
- The cardholder claims that the specified colour, size, or quantity is not as described.
And/or The merchant did not honour the terms and conditions of the contract with the 
cardholder.
The Mastercard rules state that Mr M needed to provide Starling with supporting documents 
which show how each of the above-mentioned conditions were met. The supporting 
documents couldve been in the form of emails, letters, messages or a completed dispute 
resolution form, but they needed to describe Mr Ms complaint in sufficient detail to enable all parties to understand the dispute. The rules go on to say that documents from an expert or a 
professional supporting the cardholders (Mr Ms) dispute about the level of quality or 
misrepresentation are optional. 
Starling have told us that Mr M was unable to provide a full and accurate breakdown of what 
items or goods/services were fitted to an insufficient standard to allow them to accurately 
calculate the full entitlement available for the chargeback. They said there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to meet the threshold for a chargeback to be raised. Starling said that it was 
reasonable to request this information from Mr M, at the first dispute stage, to ensure the 
chargeback had the highest likelihood of success, because of the ambiguity surrounding the 
exact value of the work needed. Starling have also told us that they felt that if they did raise 
the chargeback they would lose.
Starling could perhaps have raised the chargeback for Mr M, especially as hed told them 
hed struggle to get any further evidence to them because his partner was shielding. But 
even if they had done this, I dont think the chargeback would have succeeded. Let me 
explain why. 
Mastercard rules do say that supporting expert reports are optional, but Mr M only gave 
Starling a summary of the issues that were outstanding, and based on the emails Ive seen 
between Mr M and the Bathroom Provider, and Mr M and Starling, I dont think there was 
sufficient detail to enable all parties to understand the dispute. What I mean by this is that it 
wouldnt have been clear from the evidence supplied how much of the transaction it was 
appropriate to claim back. It appears that the products Mr M ordered were supplied and that 
not every aspect of the fitting was below the requisite standard. So, it wouldnt have been 
appropriate to raise a chargeback for the full amount of the transaction. Also from the emails 
Ive seen between Mr M and the Bathroom Provider, it seems that the Bathroom Provider 
was still trying to arrange a time to come and fix the issues for Mr M; for example in one 
email from March 2020 they were still asking Mr M when they can come out and fix the 
issues, so most likely they wouldve defended the chargeback. So overall, taking everything 
into consideration, I think its most likely that the chargeback didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of success, even if it was raised by Starling. 
Mr M said that he provided Starling with photos, but Ive not seen evidence of this and 
Starling, in their July 2020 correspondence to him, said that photos would not be sufficient to 
satisfy the evidentiary threshold. But Ive considered that even if Mr M did provide photos to 
Starling, the same photos as he provided to our service, I think most likely these didnt 
provide the sufficient detail needed, and not all of the issues Mr M mentioned were covered 
by the photos. So, taking everything into consideration, I still think that Mr M didnt provide 
sufficient detail to enable all parties to understand the dispute, and that the chargeback 
didnt have a reasonable prospect of success.
I sympathise with Mr M for the difficulties that he is experiencing, but taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think overall that Mr M has been treated 
unfairly. Based on the information provided to Starling by Mr M I think its most likely the 
chargeback wouldnt have been successful.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman