DRN-1537441
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has unfairly 
declined a claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a private medical insurance (PMI) policy with AXA underwritten on a 
moratorium basis. Mrs D made a claim in relation to a cyst. Initially, AXA accepted the claim 
and authorised a further consultation. But it later reviewed and declined the claim on the 
basis that Mrs D had symptoms of the cyst before the start date of the policy. And pre-
existing medical conditions (PEMCs) arent covered under the policy due to the moratorium 
clause.
Mrs D complained to AXA who agreed to cover the costs already paid but said it wouldnt  
cover any further costs. In addition, it said the surgery which had been planned hadnt been 
authorised, but even if the condition was covered, the surgery wouldnt be as it was 
preventative in nature.
Mrs D disagreed and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think AXA needed to do anything further as it had recognised that it had 
made a mistake to begin with. But he didnt think AXA should cover any further treatment.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that an insurer must handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mrs Ds policy has a moratorium clause which says:
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means that you wont have cover for treatment of 
medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until:
Youve been a member for two years in a row; and
Youve had a period of two years in a row, since you joined, that have been trouble-
free from that condition.
Treatment is defined as: treatment  surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) 
that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury
Mrs Ds policy started on 1 April 2019. She visited her GP in March 2019 in relation to her 
periods and menopause. Her GP referred her for further investigations and specifically, a 
scan, which took place in April 2019  the scan results showed a cyst. The symptoms of a 
cyst include irregular, lighter or heavy periods  and so, Mrs D was suffering from symptoms 
of the cyst prior to the start of the policy. 
As a reason, AXA ultimately declined the claim due to the moratorium clause. I think AXA 
was entitled to decline the claim as it isnt necessary for an official diagnosis to be made 
before the policy starts. As Mrs D had symptoms associated with a cyst before the policy 
started, any treatment relating to the cyst is excluded under the moratorium clause. 
Mrs D also had a PMI policy which ceased on 31 March 2019. She says she therefore 
should have been covered under either one of the policies. But the claim was made after the 
earlier policy had ceased and the new policy was in place. And so there was no cover for 
Mrs D under the earlier policy. It wasnt simply a continuation of cover as the new policy was 
underwritten on a moratorium basis.  
However, AXA did mistakenly authorise the treatment when Mrs D initially submitted her 
claim and then later declined it which undoubtedly caused Mrs D stress and inconvenience. 
Mrs D says she had cancelled her appointment on the NHS and was prepared to have 
surgery. And by the time AXA told her it would no longer cover her treatment, she was close 
to the date of her next appointment. So she went ahead and paid over £5,000 to have the 
surgery privately. But I havent seen any evidence that the surgery was authorised by AXA 
before it was booked. And so I cant say AXA should cover it. 
AXA is entitled to put its mistake right. It paid for the initial treatment it had authorised in 
error (amounting to approximately £1,000) but has agreed not to recover those costs which I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs D also says the surgery was necessary and not just preventative. But as the treatment 
wasnt covered under the policy due to the moratorium clause, I dont think its fair to ask 
AXA to pay for the surgery. In addition, whilst I appreciate why Mrs D paid for the treatment 
privately, this isnt something AXA can be held responsible for.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think AXA needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman