DRN-3540887
Complaint
Miss O has complained about two loans Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to her. She 
says that Lendable provided her with an unaffordable loan.
Background
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss O and Lendable had told us. And she thought 
that Lendable hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Miss Os complaint. Miss O 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  
Miss O could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Miss O with a loan for £3,000.00 in March 2020. The loan had an APR of 
41.23% and was to due be repaid in 48 instalments of around £117, which meant the total 
amount to be repaid was £5,655.31. 
Lendable says it agreed to Miss Os application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Miss O. The information Miss O provided about her income and expenditure 
showed shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. Lendable 
says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss O has said 
shed just lost her job and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss O and Lendable have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Miss Os first loan with Lendable. The information provided does suggest 
Miss O was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and Lendable didnt just 
rely on what it was told. The credit search carried out showed that Miss O had had previous 
difficulties with credit and shed taken payday loans. But this was historic and at the time 
Miss O had little in the way of outstanding debt and what she did have was well managed.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, what the credit search showed and Miss Os  
lack of any previous lending with Lendable, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to 
rely on the payments being affordable. Indeed, on the face of things, the payments appeared 
to be affordable and there was nothing that called the information gathered into question.
 
I accept that Miss Os actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered. 
Ive also seen what Miss O has said about just losing her job. But thats not what she said at 
the time. Its also possible that Lendable might have reached a different decision had Miss O 
provided all the information that she has now. But bearing in mind what showed in the 
information gathered, I dont think that there was a need for Lendable to obtain the level of 
information Miss O has now provided. Ultimately, given the circumstances, it was entitled to 
rely on what Miss O said at the time.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lendable did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Miss O - it carried out proportionate checks even 
though the information provided may not have told the whole story. Lendable reasonably 
relied on this information and given the payments involved and its lack of previous history 
with Miss O, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to provide this loan.
Ive also thought about what Miss O has said about the interest rate of the loan. But the 
credit agreement sets out the interest rate and how much Miss O is expected to pay. As 
Miss O accepted these terms and the payments appeared affordable, I think that Lendable 
didnt unfairly provide this loan. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Os complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss O. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Os complaint, I would remind Lendable of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance should Miss O be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect 
payments from her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman