DRN-3262256
The complaint
Mr N complains that a claim was logged by AXA Insurance UK Plc which he didnt proceed
with, resulting in a large increase in his premium.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr N called AXA to notify it that his oil-fired boiler was leaking. He had
noticed a smell coming from it but had assumed it was the fumes. But on a closer look it was
discovered that the feed pipe was leaking. He was concerned that the oil might have
saturated the concrete below. Hed made an appointment for a heating engineer to look at
the boiler and he would then be able to get an estimate for repairs. He was asked if he
wanted to log a claim, he advised that he did and the details were logged. A few days later
he called AXA to advise that he wanted to cancel the claim, as the work he had thought was
necessary now no longer needed to be done. AXA closed down the claim on its system.
In December 2020 Mr N received details of his renewal premium, and discovered that the
premium had increased by around 25%. He complained to AXA and was told that part of the
increase was due to the claim. After reviewing his complaint AXA explained that it had
recorded a claim as having been made, then withdrawn. It said that in applying for the policy
Mr N was required to give details of all claims or losses, including where he considered
making a claim but didnt follow it through. On renewal of the policy he would be required to
advise of any changes to the information given to AXA in his initial application, including the
loss.
AXA paid Mr M £100 for the delay in dealing with his complaint, but maintained its decision
regarding the cancelled claim.
On review by this service our investigator said that AXA should log the matter on the Claims
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database as notification only and if by logging this as a
claim it affected Mr Ns premiums, to refund any increase caused by this. He also said AXA
should pay Mr N £300 compensation.
AXA responded to say that its adviser had logged the claim after talking to Mr N and
confirming he wanted this. It said the question it asked when making an application for a
policy is clear and doesnt refer just to claims. It said the existence of the loss (even if no
damage was claimed for), rather than the claim, had affected the premium. It also felt the 
level of compensation wasnt proportionate.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think AXA had done anything wrong in 
the way it dealt with and recorded the incident.
Mr N responded and said that he didnt think hed been fairly dealt with. He says he didnt 
intend to make a claim but wanted to determine if he was insured for the loss and what he 
should do. He feels that if he did make a claim he was misled into doing so. It was not 
explained to him that it would remain on his record for five years. He didnt move to another 
insurer at renewal of the policy as he was concerned that this would have baked in the 
claim and he would never have been able to remove it from his record. He believes I should 
base my decision on fairness and how a reasonable person would expect to be treated 
rather than insurance company procedures which favour the insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
I should firstly say that Im sure that Mr N, on notifying AXA about his possible claim, didnt
realise that by doing so, the loss or claim would be logged nor that whether or not he
proceeded with the claim, it could affect his future premiums.
That said it is quite common for insurers to ask questions when consumers apply for a policy
about all possible losses including those where no claim has been made or followed through.
So, by contacting AXA and advising it about the leaking boiler (which as an oil-fired boiler
could have been of some concern), the matter would have been logged. And, as AXA has
explained as part of the risk assessment of the property it would have affected the premium,
notwithstanding that Mr N phoned up to cancel the matter when he was advised that no
damage had occurred from the leak.
AXA has logged this as 0 not outstanding, which it says other insurers will understand. The
question is whether this should be logged on CUE as notification only. I think that would
apply where an incident was notified to the insurer but no claim was made. Here Mr N was
clearly asked if he wanted to make a claim, and the call notes set out that the claim was
logged. This accords with the recording of that conversation. So I think AXA did record this
properly. The important thing is to record on CUE that there was no pay-out and that the
matter was no longer outstanding.
I know Mr N was unhappy that his premiums rose because of the notification, but I should
make the point that he didnt have to renew the policy with AXA. Other insurers may well
take a different view as to how the claim would affect the premiums. But as under the terms
of the policy Mr N would have been required to notify AXA of the incident, I cant see that he
could have avoided having the matter logged.
So although I understand Mr Ns unhappiness with AXAs decision, I dont think it can be
said to have done anything wrong. Ive noted the £100 paid for the problems Mr N had with
the way his complaint was handled. However as complaints handling by a business is not an
activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) I dont have any power to look
into this aspect of his complaint any further.
I understand Mr Ns concerns and that he didnt realise that merely reporting the matter 
would affect his future insurance premiums. He could have decided not to report the matter, 
but once it occurred it was his obligation under the terms of his insurance contract to report 
the matter whether or not it led to a claim. 
So, once hed reported the matter, AXA was going to record it whether or not it led to a 
claim. Ive listened to the phone call and he was clearly asked by the adviser if he wanted to 
make a claim. I appreciate that the adviser didnt tell him it would remain on his record but he 
wouldnt have had the choice of reporting it or not. Im aware, as I said in my provisional 
decision, that it was proposed that this be recorded as notification only. As Ive said that 
wasnt appropriate in this case. But it was the reporting of the matter rather than how it was 
recorded that affected the premium. Generally we say that insurers are entitled to record 
these matters on CUE. And this should record that no pay-out was made, which Im satisfied is how this matter is proposed to be recorded. 
I understand that Mr N doesnt feel it was fair for this to affect his insurance record when he 
was unaware that this is how insurers operate. But he hasnt been treated any differently 
from any other policyholder. Insurers may vary as to how long they keep such matters on 
record and how such a matter affects the premiums. But we do say that they are entitled to 
take such matters into account and record them.
So regrettably I cant change my provisional decision, and I remain satisfied by my 
provisional findings. Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman