DRN-3978155
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the way AWP P&C SA handled her home emergency claim.
What happened
Rainwater leaked through the roof into Miss Ws bedroom, so she claimed under her home 
emergency insurance. AWP offered a roofer appointment for the following week. Miss W 
was unhappy with the timescale because the damage to her bedroom ceiling was getting 
worse.
The bedroom ceiling came down, so AWP arranged for another roofer to attend a couple of 
days earlier than the planned appointment. The roofer said scaffolding was needed to 
access the roof and a temporary repair wasn't possible via the loft space.
The original appointment went ahead two days later, and this second roofer came to the 
same conclusion as the first. No repairs were carried out.
Miss W complained to AWP because her roof and the damage inside was getting worse. 
AWP offered her £300 to get the temporary repair done herself. The policy provided cover 
up to £1,000 and Miss W said shed pay whatever the repair cost over that amount if AWP 
would just make her roof watertight until she could arrange a permanent repair.
AWP directed Miss W to her home insurance explaining that she needed to have a 
permanent repair. Miss W didnt dispute this but shed wanted AWP to complete a temporary 
repair in line with her policy so the damage could be minimised. She brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator initially thought AWPs offer of £300 towards the repair was reasonable, so 
she didnt uphold the complaint. However, after asking for further information, our 
investigator issued a second view which proposed that AWP pay the full policy limit of 
£1,000 along with £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AWP didnt respond to the view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The key issue of Miss Ws complaint is that AWP didnt provide a temporary repair in line 
with her home emergency policy.
An emergency is defined in the policy as:
A sudden unforeseen domestic situation which, if not dealt with quickly, will:
damage, or cause further damage to your home or its contents
Im satisfied that rainwater suddenly leaking into Miss Ws home and then bringing down the 
ceiling was an emergency event. 
So, Ive looked at the policy to see what AWP shouldve done in the circumstances. 
Providing the event met the definition of an emergency, AWP was responsible for arranging 
an approved tradesperson to attend and deal with the emergency up to the policy limit. Miss 
W wouldve been responsible for any extra costs:
Emergency repair(s)
Work carried out by our tradesperson to resolve the immediate emergency. This may 
involve a temporary repair or permanent repair. When we make a repair we will leave 
your home safe and habitable, but we will not be responsible for reinstating it to its 
original condition.
We will make a permanent repair if this can be carried out during the same visit and 
at a similar cost to the temporary repair. If a permanent repair is not possible or the 
cost difference is significant, we will make a temporary repair and you will need to 
replace this with a permanent repair at your own cost within 30 days.
On consideration of the evidence, I dont think AWP did everything it shouldve done for 
these reasons:
AWP decided scaffolding was needed to access the roof. I accept that may have 
been the case, but it doesnt explain why AWP didnt make those arrangements.
The second roofer also said scaffolding was needed and suggested it was arranged 
so that the roof could be made watertight. Again, AWP didnt make arrangements for 
scaffolding.
AWP said a temporary repair couldnt be carried out from inside the house because 
the loft space was cluttered. But neither of AWPs roofers looked inside the loft, 
instead basing their opinion on photos provided by Miss W. Ive looked at the photos 
Miss W provided and see that the loft was used for what looks like relatively minimal 
storage. But the area underneath the leak was only taken up by tubs placed there to 
collect the rainwater leaking in. AWP didnt ask Miss W to remove any clutter.
AWP said it would need crawl boards to access the loft area to carry out a repair, 
which its roofers didnt carry with them. It hasnt said why, or if, it was unable to 
obtain them. I think it shouldve tried. 
The cost for AWP to erect scaffolding just to inspect the damage so it could quote for 
temporary repairs was around £2,500. Miss W confirmed she was happy to pay 
anything over her policy limit just to get her home watertight until she could arrange 
for a permanent repair. AWP didnt make any arrangements to inspect.
AWP told Miss W her claim fell under her buildings insurance policy rather than her 
home emergency policy. I dont agree. The damage was clearly the result of an 
emergency event and Miss W was only seeking to have the cover available to her 
under her home emergency policy. I accept that any claim for a permanent repair 
would need to be considered under her buildings policy, but the issue here is about 
the temporary repair.Ive noted that AWP offered Miss W £300 towards the cost of a temporary repair as a 
gesture of goodwill. But AWP said, at first, that a repair wasn't possible. It later said it 
wasnt possible within the policy limit. Its not clear then why AWP thought Miss W 
would be able to make those arrangements herself either at all, or for £300. AWP 
appears to have tried, unfairly, to settle the claim for less than a third of its liability 
under the policy.
AWP believes it wasn't responsible for the repairs because it fell within the exclusion 
for maintenance issues. I dont agree. AWPs roofers didnt inspect the roof properly - 
the second roofer attended when it was dark - so I dont think AWP can fairly say 
what condition the roof was in. And as Ive already said, the event meets the 
definition of an emergency, and Miss W simply wanted her home made watertight so 
that further damage could be prevented. Thats what her policy provides cover for.
Overall, the evidence suggests that AWP didnt provide the cover Miss W could reasonably 
have expected under her home emergency policy. As the costs AWP wouldve incurred have 
been confirmed as over the policy limit, I agree with Miss W that it should pay her the policy 
limit. Thats because, if AWP hadnt been able to undertake the work that was needed and 
covered under the policy, it could at least have suggested that it would pay up to the policy 
limit for Miss W to arrange her own temporary repair. Instead, it offered her £300.
As she had the repair done at a similar cost to that which AWP calculated, Im satisfied that 
its fair and reasonable for AWP to pay Miss W £1,000 which is the limit of its liability.
Further to this, having considered the way AWP handled this claim, it should pay Miss W 
compensation of £100 in recognition of those shortfalls in service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AWP P&C 
SA must:
pay Miss W £1,000 which is the limit of its liability under the policy and is the amount 
it shouldve contributed towards the cost of temporary repairs, and
pay compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of Miss 
Ws claim caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman