DRN-3900908
The complaint
Mrs G complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) permitted her daughter  the 
beneficiary - to withdraw funds held in a savings account without her authorisation.
Mrs G wants Nationwide to reimburse the money and pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset its caused.
What happened
To keep things simple, I will refer to Mrs Gs daughter as Miss G in my decision.
Mrs G opened a childs savings account with Nationwide in 2005 with Miss G as its 
beneficiary. In July 2021, Nationwide wrote to Mrs G to explain what will happen once the 
account matures. It said, it wont be long before the young saver youve been setting money 
aside for is eighteen and a half. As the account was about to mature, it would be amended 
to a different type of savings account.
The letter went on to say, Were here to help your young saver explore their options and 
decide what to do next. Under normal circumstances, if they want to start saving on their 
own behalf or takeout their money, youd both need to come into branch  this is so you can 
take your name off the account, and they can either open a new account or take their money 
out.
In January 2022, Miss G went into a Nationwide branch and withdrew all the funds. The 
account was subsequently closed.
Mrs G says she had the account passbook, the account was mandated in her name, and 
was the only signatory permitted to operate it. She adds that because of releasing the funds 
to Miss G, Nationwide allowed an unauthorised transaction to occur.
Unhappy with Nationwides actions, Mrs G complained. Nationwide sent Mrs G its final 
response. In summary it said:
- A branch member confirmed they treated the closure of the account as a 
Cashbuilder Book and not as the driving account holder  with Miss G being the 
beneficiary
- The member of staff didnt correctly check the signature status on the account which 
led to the error being made. It was a human error  and not because the member of 
staff knew Miss G
- As the funds were held in the account for Miss G, reinstating them would mean giving 
them to her twice
- Nationwide had offered Mrs G £350 compensation, which she declined
Nationwide separately said Miss G didnt have the account passbook when she withdrew the 
money. Mrs G said she didnt want her daughter to have the funds as she was irresponsible 
 and having it would cause her substantial detriment.
Unhappy with what Nationwide said, Mrs G referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint. In summary, they found:
- In line with this services approach, including the Payment Service Regulations 
(PSRs), Nationwide should refund the funds to Mrs G, as she didnt authorise the 
transaction
- The disputed transaction was made from an account held solely in Mrs Gs name  
so it should be refunded
- They didnt think the funds had been withdrawn and used in the way Mrs G intended. 
And they had not seen evidence to show Miss G would double benefit from the 
money
- Nationwide made an error by allowing an account to be closed and funds withdrawn 
by an individual who wasnt authorised to do so
- Mrs G experienced inconvenience because of Nationwides error. So it should pay 
Mrs G £350 compensation for the impact this had
Mrs G agreed with our Investigator, but Nationwide didnt. In short, Nationwide made the 
following arguments:
- The Smart (Parent Book) account was opened with Mrs G as the driving account 
holder and Miss G as the beneficiary. The accounts Smart Key Product Information 
documents says:
If the account is opened by an adult, the adult will be acting on behalf of the child (as 
a bare trustee). Although the account is in the name of the adult, the money in the 
account is held for and belongs to the child. As a bare trustee, the adult will have 
duties and obligations to the child (for example, the adult will need to act in the best 
interests of the child)
- It sent a letter to Mrs G when her daughter reached 18 years and six months of age 
to explain the money would be transferred to a different account  a Cashbuilder 
account. The letter said the account will remain in Mrs Gs name up until she takes 
her name off, and shell be responsible for acting in Miss Gs best interests as a bare 
trustee
- Where money is held under a bare trustee for the benefit of a child, as soon as they 
reach 18 years of age, they become entitled to the money and can demand the 
account holder pay them. If the account holder refuses, a court would be bound to 
order they pay it over
- As Miss G was 19 years old, if Nationwide were to pay the money back to Mrs G, 
Miss G as the beneficiary, would be entitled to demand that it be paid to her. This 
would result in an unjust enrichment
- Mrs G has never been entitled to benefit from the money as per the account terms of 
the account
- So Mrs G has suffered no financial loss, and £350 is adequate compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes sufferedAs Nationwide didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I then sent both 
parties my provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisionally decision:  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im planning to uphold this complaint in part. What Im minded to decide 
will disappoint Mrs G  so Ill explain why.
The UK Government website says:
Assets in a bare trust are held in the name of a trustee. However, the beneficiary has the 
right to all of the capital and income of the trust at any time if theyre 18 or over (in England 
and Wales), or 16 or over (in Scotland). This means the assets set aside by the settlor will 
always go directly to the intended beneficiary.
Bare trusts are often used to pass assets to young people - the trustees look after them until 
the beneficiary is old enough.
This means a bare trusts beneficiary is absolutely entitled to the trusts funds after the age 
of 18. There is no dispute here that the account from which Miss G withdrew the funds was a 
bare trust  and that Mrs G was acting as a bare trustee.
This means - given her age - at the point Miss G withdrew the funds she was entitled to 
them. It follows that had Miss G demanded the funds, she would ultimately have been 
entitled to them and Nationwide would have been bound to give them to her.
Ive carefully reviewed Nationwides terms of account and noted what the Smart Key 
Product Information document says. Ive already referenced some of what it says above. It 
also goes onto say:
Once you, or where the account is held on behalf of a child, that child, reaches the age of 
18 years and six months, your money will be transferred into an instant access savings 
account and the terms and conditions and the interest rate applicable to that account, at that 
time, will apply. We will personally notify you before making this transfer. Where the account 
is held on behalf of a child prior to the transfer, this will continue following the transfer to the 
new account until the adult transfers the new account into the childs sole name.
I note this says Mrs G would need to transfer the funds into Miss Gs sole name. And I agree 
that Nationwide failed to take these steps, and indeed didnt act on Mrs Gs instruction given 
the concerns she had about her daughter being in receipt of the funds at that time.
I do sympathise with Mrs G for whats happened here  and Nationwide do accept it made 
an error. That error was in not following its own process  including how it authenticated the 
payment. But Im satisfied that doesnt take away from this being a bare trust in which the 
beneficiary had come of age and had absolute entitlement to the funds.
So I think out Investigator was wrong to say Nationwide should refund the money to Mrs G 
as she hadnt authorised its withdrawal. Ultimately there is no dispute Miss G took these 
funds  and benefitted from them - even if it was for purposes Mrs G didnt want her to utilise 
them for.
This undoubtedly will appear an inequitable position to Mrs G. But if things were put back to how they ought to be, Miss G would once again be entitled to funds shes already benefited 
from. So, Im persuaded she would be doubly rewarded.
So, after carefully weighing everything up, Im satisfied Nationwide does not have to return 
the funds to the account.
I do however agree that Nationwide has made errors here both in terms of its internal 
processes, and in making, what ultimately was false assurances to Mrs G. I do not 
underestimate the impact this had on Mrs G, who had been saving these funds for her 
daughter for around 15 years  principally for Miss G to use them for a positive purpose.
Its because of this, that Im persuaded Nationwides actions would have caused Mrs G 
considerable distress, upset and worry. Mrs G has been clear to both Nationwide and this 
service that Miss Gs disposition at the time meant the funds would be used for activities that 
would cause her detriment  and she was trying, as a parent would, to safeguard her against 
that.
Because of this, I think an award of £500 would be fair compensation for the trouble and 
upset Nationwides errors have caused her.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Nationwide agreed with what I said in my provisional decision. Mrs G did not agree with what 
I said. In summary she made the following points: 
- If the matter went to court, Mrs G would get the opportunity to explain Miss G was 
being manipulated and coerced by a controlling adult who had benefited from the 
funds 
- The account passbook was stored in a security safe to which Miss G had no access. 
If Mrs G knew Nationwide would give the funds to Miss G without it, she would have 
moved the funds to an account in her own name
- As Miss G hasnt benefitted from the funds due to being coercively controlled by 
someone else, Nationwide should return the money. That way Miss G can take 
Mrs G to court to gain access and revert to the status quo
- Nationwide failed to make proper security checks and safeguard the account 
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has 
passed, I will now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold this complaint in part. I know Mrs G feels strongly 
about her complaint. And Id like to assure her that I dont underestimate the strength of 
sentiment that sits behind her complaint. 
Mrs G argues that Nationwide should put things right by giving her the money after which the 
matter can be settled in court. This service is an alternative to the courts, and if she doesnt 
agree with my decision, she can still consider other avenues to resolve this complaint  
which includes taking it to court. To surmise, the key reasons Im still persuaded Nationwide doesnt need to return the funds 
is because Miss G had come of age, and so was entitled to the funds. They were only held 
in trust by Mrs G until that point. So, Miss G ultimately, despite what Nationwide said to 
Mrs G, was entitled to withdraw those funds. 
Once again, Ill refer to what the UK Government website says about a bare trust: 
Assets in a bare trust are held in the name of a trustee. However, the beneficiary has the 
right to all of the capital and income of the trust at any time if theyre 18 or over (in England 
and Wales), or 16 or over (in Scotland). This means the assets set aside by the settlor will 
always go directly to the intended beneficiary.
Bare trusts are often used to pass assets to young people - the trustees look after them until 
the beneficiary is old enough.
So by returning these funds to the bare trustee account, Miss G would ultimately be doubly 
rewarded by having the benefit of them again. I note Mrs G says Miss G was being 
coercively controlled by someone with nefarious intention. But I havent seen that Nationwide 
were put on alert about this. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but for the reasons in my provisional decision, and what Ive 
said above, I wont be upholding this part of her complaint. 
I do however still think Nationwide made an error in terms of following its internal process, 
and making false assurances to Mrs G. And given the impact this caused, which I explained 
in my provisional decision, Nationwide should pay Mrs G £500 for the considerable distress 
and inconvenience it caused.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, and now direct Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mrs G £500 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman