DRN-4142316
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain AXA Insurance UK Plc applied a proportional settlement to a claim 
against their home insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim on their AXA home insurance policy following storm damage. 
AXA accepted the claim but considered Mr and Mrs C were underinsured. This was because 
they had stated the rebuild cost was £200,000, whereas based on AXAs measurements of 
the property of 182m2, it considered the rebuild cost was about £295,000  182m2 at £1,619 
per m2. AXA therefore agreed to settle the claim on a proportional basis  68%.
 
Mr and Mrs C disputed this, saying the property was about 120m2, meaning they werent 
underinsured. They spent considerable effort challenging AXAs measurements and have 
pointed out AXA had initially measured the wrong property, and then gone on to give a 
variety of different measurements. Dissatisfied with how the claim was being handled and 
with the service they were receiving, they asked our service for an independent review.
In January 2023 the Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld and the 
claim paid in full. This was because, in summary, he was more persuaded by 
Mr and Mrs Cs measurements than AXAs. He also considered Mr and Mrs C had been 
provided with poor service and thought AXA should pay them £100 compensation in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience they were caused. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted the Investigators recommendation. AXA didnt respond by the 
deadline, or to follow-up correspondence. By March 2023 Mr and Mrs C, wanting to move 
on, decided to accept the proportional settlement. AXA said it would pay this amount, but I 
understand the money hadnt been paid yet. AXA still hasnt responded to the Investigators 
recommendation, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any comments from AXA challenging the Investigators recommendation  
or the reasons for it  I see no reason to depart from it. But for completeness, Im also more 
persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs measurements than AXAs, meaning Im not satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for AXA to offer to settle the claim on a proportional basis. It follows I find 
AXA should settle the claim in full. 
The Investigator recommended AXA pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience its service failings had on them. I dont consider this 
sufficient. AXAs communications around the measurements caused Mr and Mrs C a great 
deal of frustration as it presented a variety of measurements and rebuild costs, without any 
apparent reference to the contradictions or their arguments. 
Further, AXA  through its inaction  has delayed this complaint by several months which 
had left Mr and Mrs C in a position of uncertainty and increasing frustration, as demonstrated 
by their decision to reluctantly accept the proportional settlement to bring matters to a close. 
It has now been over a year since the storm damage occurred. I find £500 compensation 
fairly and reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs C were caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc, within 28 days of our service 
informing AXA of Mr and Mrs Cs acceptance of my decision, to:
- Settle Mr and Mrs Cs claim in full; and
- Pay Mr and Mrs C £500 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience theyve been caused.
If AXA doesnt make the above payments within 28 days of our service informing it of Mr and 
Mrs Cs acceptance of my decision, it should pay simple interest* at 8% per year on the 
amounts from the date of my final decision until they are paid.
 
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman