DRN-3692852
The complaint
Mr M complains as a trustee of his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) that a director of 
Rockpool Investments LLP misled him into believing that a property was adequate security 
for a loan note he invested in. He says this was partly because the structure of the 
investment allowed him to be cut out of ongoing decisions. And rather than force a sale of 
the property at the first opportunity, Mr M alleges that Rockpool allowed the developer to 
take on further shares and debt, which compromised the security for other lenders. He says 
that Rockpool breached the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s Principles 6 & 7.
What happened
The promotional material
Rockpool released a 15-page confidential blueprint for the investment in a data centre on 
1 October 2013. The offer comprised £4.4 million of Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) 
qualifying shares, and £4.75m senior secured loan notes (paying interest of 10%pa) which 
were being used to buy out an existing loan from a third party and raise further cash. It 
asserted that the value of the property, the powered shell of which had been built in 2012, 
provided 120% asset-backing for share and loan investment.
The investment was to fund the installation of mechanical and electrical infrastructure, such 
as generators, cooling equipment and switchboards. Corporate tenants would then enter into 
contracts of 5 years+ to have their own IT equipment located in the data centre. The loan 
notes were to be repaid by the end of 2016 at the latest, but the developer intended to 
refinance them with a £5m commercial mortgage in the fourth quarter of 2014. Until then 
they would be secured by a debenture and first charge over all assets of the developing 
company. It had no other borrowings than £150,000 to repay to each of its directors over the 
first two years (and any of the existing debt that could not be refinanced by loan notes). 
Rockpool was also to monitor performance and report to investors.
Of particular interest to Mr M was that a valuation was given for the data centre, taken from 
an independent surveyors report dated 18 September 2013. That report is 84 pages long as 
it contains evidence of local authority searches and so on. The surveyors report gave 
caveats which were not repeated in the blueprint, such as there not being comparable 
transactions for data centres still under construction or sold with vacant possession; and the 
demand for occupancy not being tested given that the data centre (located 30 miles out of 
London) was outside the established area for such facilities.
The surveyor had said that the then present valuation of £7.2m followed the standards of the 
Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). It was based on a projected rental income 
capitalisedby an appropriate factor that recognises the risk that the building is currently 
vacant (vacancy risk), occupiers are not committed (occupier risk) and that there will be a 
delay in fitting out the building to an occupiers special specification (fit out risk). 
Their professional opinion was that the property provided adequate security for the loan on 
this basis. It gave other valuations on special assumptions (which were also repeated in the 
blueprint) that this value would rise to £11.1m on completion of the Phase 1 fit-out and £14m 
once Phase 1 has been occupied by tenants. Even if tenants couldnt be found and there 
was a forced sale at a 15% discount to the £11.1m valuation, this suggested the debts could 
still be repaid. Rockpool said from this that the loan notes of £4.75m represented 66% a 
loan-to-value (LTV) of the current property value, reducing to 43% on completion of Phase 1. 
A shorter confidential briefing from Rockpool on the loan notes alone was dated the following 
day, 2 October 2013. This confirmed the main figures set out above. At the bottom it said, 
This document is only suitable for sophisticated investors. Rockpool would receive an 
arrangement fee of 5% of the loan notes (and other fees from share sales). 
Both documents concluded with an important notice giving Rockpools understanding that it 
had complied with the regulators rules on financial promotions and that investors should 
seek their own independent advice before investing, as there were significant risks of loss to 
potentially all capital. It said that the opportunity was being made available to members of 
the Rockpool network  in effect an investment club which obtained advance priority notice 
of investment opportunities  and other investors using Rockpools portfolio services.
Mr Ms interactions with his IFA and SIPP provider
Mr M had been dealing with the IFA since 2008 and says he had been offered a number of 
investment opportunities, many of which he declined as he thought they were too risky. He 
had lost money with the IFA in an investment called Blue Sky, and he and his wife also held 
£300,000 in an Octopus EIS. At the time of advice he was age 69, their non-pension assets 
were valued at over £10m and their SIPPs about £900,000. 
The IFA produced an initial financial plan recommending the loan note on 20 January 2014, 
emphasizing the key figures and dates Ive given above. Mr M says he was told it was a no 
brainer. His office also asked Mr Ms SIPP provider to check that the loan note was 
acceptable. Up to the end of March the SIPP provider was asking Rockpool a number of 
questions in order to carry out its own due diligence into the investment. 
On 3 April the SIPP provider sent Rockpool an amended investment management 
agreement (IMA) between it as professional trustee, Mr and Mrs M as member trustees and 
Rockpool as investment provider/manager. It also appears to have sent a risk warning letter 
which Ive not seen, but Mr M says it warned that 'secured loan notes were a high risk and 
should be avoided. He says he wasnt prepared to proceed because there was no 
satisfactory assurance to support the value of the security being offered on the loan plus no 
details of how the repayment of the loan would be processed / enforced. 
Mr M says that the IFA told him he would be able to obtain written assurances providing he 
and his wife signed the risk warning letter as it was written - and only the signature page of 
the IMA, which he witnessed. Mr M says the IFA told him this was part of Rockpools 
confidentiality protocol until such point as Mr M showed further interest in the investment.
The IMA is dated 4 April 2014 (except page 1 which is dated 7 April, apparently as a result of 
a non-material change), however dates werent required on signatures. It categorised the 
family SIPP trust as Rockpools retail client and Rockpool would make investments on the 
written instruction of the SIPP provider as professional trustee. Theres some evidence the 
IFAs office wrote to Mr M on 15 April 2014 asking him to sign this, adding: Please return the 
above forms to meand I will submit to [SIPP provider] for them to make the investment 
arrangements with Rockpool. So it appears Mr M signed the IMA after this date, although 
possibly not straight away  as he was still unsure about the investment and asked his IFA 
to ask Rockpool the following questions. 
Further information provided by Rockpool
Rockpool replied to Mr Ms questions via the IFA on 6 May 2014. In summary it said:What happens if the loan isnt paid back? The developer has to pay it back after three 
years, if they dont the security could be enforced by selling the property
Who has first charge? The charge is jointly held by Rockpool's investors (who had lent 
£3.4m so far) and the existing third party (£1.3m of whose loan hadnt yet been paid off). 
This total debt as a fraction of the pre-fit out valuation (£7.2m) gave the 66% LTV
The value of the property  was this a fire sale value? Rockpool answered See above. 
[Surveyor] value the building at £7.2m pre fit-out, £11.1 m once fitted out (which will be done 
by July) and £14m full.
What events trigger a forced sale of the property? Failure to pay interest or loans on time
What power do investors have if these events happen? Rockpool would seek a buyer for 
the developers business/asset
Mr M says he was sufficiently reassured by these answers to instruct the IFA to come back 
to him with full details of the IMA. He considers Rockpool should have told him about the 
existence of this IMA as this gave the professional trustee the power to invest. The IFA failed 
to provide it so, in his view, he didnt actually authorise the IFA to invest £350,000. 
However, Mr M has already complained to this service about the actions of the IFA. As part 
of that complaint he told us that on 11 May 2014 he asked the IFA Please send me a hard 
copy of the paperwork I sent you. Please confirm level of investment with me. He further 
says the IFA responded the next day We agreed and told Rockpool £350k. [Colleague] is 
sending you back copies of the documentation. By Mr Ms own admission therefore, the IFA 
was confirming details of a discussion with him where he had agreed to make the 
investment. I place more weight on this contemporaneous correspondence. 
Mr M says he was still chasing for the IMA on 4 June as he didnt believe he had instructed 
the investment to go ahead. But Im satisfied his request of that date shows awareness his 
instruction had been given, as he asks Has the cash been invested?. The SIPP provider 
has evidently told Mr M that it has no record of him disputing at the time that he wanted to 
make this investment.
I accept that Mr M may consider he invested on the basis of insufficient information (whether 
that was from the IFA or Rockpool), but I dont think a claim that he never agreed to invest is 
supported by the evidence. In fact to claim this would bring into question whether he relied 
on Rockpools assurances at all. So I am proceeding with this complaint on the basis that it 
is about the level of information Rockpool gave him.
The SIPP provider sent off the application to buy £350,000 of loan notes on 15 May, using 
the sale proceeds of a UK commercial property which had been owned and controlled by 
Mr M for many years. And the SIPP received interest payments commensurate with having 
made such an investment. So Im satisfied the investment was made on Mr Ms behalf with 
Rockpool as nominee.
Problems with the investment
The developer didnt repay the loan notes by the outer date of end 2016, principally due to a 
lack of interest from tenants in the data centre.
Rockpool says that it provided an update through its secure portal on 23 May 2017 which 
consulted investors on a proposed equity issue and an extension to the term of the loan. 
Rockpool would consent to the changes of the terms unless a majority by value subscribed 
objected. It says there were some objections received, but the majority of investors and 
lenders didnt object to the proposal. Mr M reports that the IFA has told him he objected to it 
without telling Mr M as he did not want him to worry. The final interest payment Mr M was 
due was paid into his SIPP on 6 April 2017  total interest of £99,630.16 was paid.In July 2017 Mr M began disputing the surveyors valuations with his IFA, who was arranging 
a meeting with Rockpool. They were unable to get the surveyor to attend this meeting. He 
says the developer had also entered into further debt. Rockpool told him at this meeting that 
it had given the developer six months to the end of December 2017 and would force a sale 
of the property if things did not improve.
In October 2017 Mr M complained to the IFA about its advice. One of my colleagues in May 
2020 awarded binding compensation of £150,000 and was only able to recommend redress 
above this amount, which the IFA did not pay. There was no complaint mentioned about 
investments being made without Mr Ms consent and, as I have indicated above, such a 
complaint does not appear to be borne out by the facts of this case.
Mr Ms complaint against Rockpool
Rockpool released a further update in April 2020 that a sale of the property hadnt been 
achieved and there would be no distribution to loan note holders. Mr M complained that the 
information hes now seen in the surveyors report proves that the £7.2m valuation would 
never have been feasible. He had also identified the alleged fraud in the investment and said 
that the developers articles of association only required it to seek authority of the 
shareholders for corporate actions.
Rockpool responded that he had no direct communication with the Rockpool executive who 
answered his questions in 2014  it was routed by his IFA. In any event, the valuations were 
supported by a professional surveyor adhering to RICS standards. These were matters of 
opinion and could never be guaranteed. Rockpool had no need to verify those valuations 
further, and did not confirm Mr Ms view of them as a fire sale valuation. It said that 
investors were informed in updates of the loan extension proposal and alleged fraud by one 
of the directors .
One of our investigators looked into the complaint against Rockpool and didnt think it should 
be upheld. In summary, she said:
- The IFA was responsible for explaining the IMA to Mr M. Rockpool wasnt to know 
that the IFA wasnt relaying information to him. 
- The IMA entitled it to accept an instruction to invest from the professional trustees.
- The regulator required firms to ensure a financial promotion was fair, clear and not 
misleading. The confidential blueprint warned that This investment is not readily 
realisable. Capital invested will be at risk and you could lose all of your investment in 
the company. You should not rely on income from the company.
- Rockpools answers to Mr Ms questions were not misleading and reflected the 
information known at the time  there was no reason for Rockpool to consider the 
valuation by the independent surveyor was unrealistic.
- The valuation not being achieved was in the nature of making a high risk investment.
- Rockpool did attempt to enforce the security over the investment, but that was not 
guaranteed to be successful.
Mr M continued to disagree that the detail within the independent surveyors report 
supported the valuation given, and in fact made the property worthless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rockpools obligations to Mr M
Im satisfied by virtue of the IMA that Mr M, as one of the trustees of his SIPP, was a customer of Rockpool and that it was carrying out regulated activities including arranging 
investments for him. So, the promotional material Rockpool provided about the data centre 
could therefore be considered to be ancillary to those regulated activities. However, that 
doesnt mean that I can disregard the context in which that information was given. 
The version of the financial promotion Mr M saw was designed, by its very nature, to be 
circulated to sophisticated investors who were members of Rockpools member network. Ive 
seen no evidence that Rockpool itself issued this to Mr M  it seems to be the IFA who did 
so. But it is reasonable to expect the literature, including the warnings provided, to have 
been written from Rockpools point of view with that target audience in mind.
COBS 4.2.2G says that the fair, clear and not misleading rule applies in a way that is 
proportionate taking into account the means of communication and the information it is 
intended to convey. As an example, a communication addressed to a professional client 
may not need to include the same information, or be presented in the same way, as a 
communication addressed to a retail client. I think the same observation can be made where 
a communication is expected to go to sophisticated investors. So, in my view it was sufficient 
for the key features and risk factors to be set out in the promotional documents on the basis 
that sophisticated investors were reasonably in a position to appreciate them, take their own 
advice or investigate further if necessary. 
There is no evidence Mr M had applied to join the Rockpool Network, but rather that the IFA 
had passed the promotion on to him. I think that the nature of the IMA meant that the SIPP 
provider, as professional trustee, was receiving Rockpools portfolio services. But does it 
matter that Mr M was not himself a sophisticated investor, as he was meant to be based on 
the promotional documents?
From what Ive read on this complaint, Mr M had run his own company before retiring and 
had some limited experience of investing in riskier investments such as EIS. He would have 
been regarded as a high net worth but not a sophisticated investor. Im mindful that 
Rockpool knew he was taking advice, because contact was through his IFA at that time. And 
in my view there would have been nothing untoward about even a sophisticated investor 
taking independent advice. This encouraged in the promotional literature. 
A professional trustee of a SIPP, with its own obligations to undertake due diligence, was 
also ultimately giving the instruction to invest. So Im satisfied on balance that Rockpool was 
able to accept an investment instruction from the professional trustee on Mr Ms behalf, with 
the knowledge that he was being advised and had the support and assistance of his IFA. It 
was the IFAs decision to provide material directed at sophisticated investors to Mr M - and 
responsibility for that rests with the IFA, whom this service has already considered a 
complaint against. 
Im also mindful that a certain specified situation under the regulators handbook, where 
Rockpool would have to obtain further detail of Mr Ms knowledge and experience, didnt 
apply in this case. In May 2014, COBS 10 required a firm to assess the appropriateness of 
investments in non-readily realisable securities for retail clients, where it ought reasonably to 
be aware that they were made in response to a direct offer financial promotion. In my view 
Mr Ms application was not in response to a direct offer from Rockpool, as the promotional 
material had been given to him by his IFA in the context of advice from that IFA.
Because of this wider regulatory context, I think it would be wrong to read a requirement 
along the lines of COBS 10 into Rockpools obligations towards Mr M. As COBS 2.4.4R set 
out, one regulated firm was entitled to rely on any recommendations provided by another 
regulated firm to the end client. In all of these circumstances I dont think Rockpool acted 
wrongly in accepting Mr Ms investment.Rockpools information about the data centre investment
Guidance at COBS 4.2.4G expects financial promotions to make risks to capital clear, give a 
balanced impression of both short and long term prospects for the investment, set out the 
charging structure and avoid misleading use of terms such as guaranteed. Im satisfied that 
the fairly lengthy blueprint document in particular was sufficiently balanced for the target 
audience (sophisticated investors), relied on independent third party opinion where 
necessary and contained adequate risk warnings for that audience. 
The valuation figures came directly from the independent surveyors report. Ive reviewed 
that report and I dont agree with Mr M that the surveyor was saying the property was 
worthless, either in its then state or as a vacant sale after fitting out. Saying there is not an 
established market for something is not the same thing as it is worthless. The surveyor was 
pointing out the risks in giving a valuation in these circumstances, which was their role to do 
 but that doesnt mean they considered it likely those risks would come to fruition.
The £7.2m valuation reflected a partially built property with no equivalent sale prices to refer 
to. RICS standards allowed the surveyor to refer to the projected future income from tenants 
(but account for the uncertainty of that income), and meant they concluded the property in its 
then state was adequate security. Only the two higher valuations employed special 
assumptions. The surveyor declared that he had followed RICS standards in all valuations 
and I dont see that Rockpool had a reason to doubt this. So Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Rockpool contrived to give this information knowing that the development would be 
unsuccessful. 
In my view, this wasnt changed by the further clarification Mr M sought from Rockpool 
through his IFA. I accept that Rockpool knew that a potential client would be the end 
recipient of its answers - but it also knew that it wasnt advising the client on the loan notes 
whereas the IFA was. So, Mr Ms decision to attempt to get further information from 
Rockpool didnt change the balance of responsibilities between Rockpool and the IFA.
I also cant see that Rockpool gave out any information in its answers that materially 
expanded on the promotional material (which it was clear from questions that Mr M and/or 
his adviser had already read). It was under no obligation to give Mr M more information than 
any other prospective investor; indeed it would not have been treating its customers fairly to 
do so. I dont think the fact that Rockpool referred to the same figures in response to Mr Ms 
question about whether this was a fire sale valuation also made no difference here: it didnt 
have any other valuations it could give him.
I understand why Mr M was looking for an absolute worst case scenario figure, as the 
freehold had originally been purchased for around £800,000 and already had a market value 
of £7.2m. This seems to be the reason Mr M initially didnt want to invest. That shows in my 
view that he was recognising to some extent the risk in the investment, because there was 
no guarantee the £7.2m valuation could be achieved. It was his IFAs role to consider if that 
risk was suitable for him to take. 
From Rockpools point of view offering an investment to sophisticated investors, it was up to 
those investors (or their advisers) to carry out their due diligence based on the information 
provided. That would likely involve comparing other investments of this type, the typical 
outcomes achieved and at what risk. As Mr M has obtained a copy of the surveyors report, 
this would likely have been obtainable to at the time. It was also reasonable for Rockpool to 
expect the IFA, as a regulated firm making a recommendation, to be familiar with the 
mechanics of the investment he was recommending - including how the security could be 
enforced - and to be able to assist his client in understanding this.
Allegations about Rockpool, the IFA and SIPP provider having a mutual vested interestWhilst Im considering a complaint about Rockpool here, I also havent found evidence to 
substantiate allegations that Rockpool conspired with the IFA and/or the SIPP provider in 
some way to keep information from Mr M. 
Mr M has referred to Rockpools confidentiality protocol as the reason why his IFA didnt 
show him the full IMA before he invested. If the IFA was a member of Rockpools member 
network, this does have confidentiality rules about the investments discussed., However, I 
cant see why this would have extended to a management agreement which did not disclose 
any confidential information about the investment. Nor does it mean that Rockpool knew or 
must have suspected that the IFA had withheld such information from Mr M. I say this as 
from looking at the IMA terms, nothing stands out as particularly unusual or something a 
sophisticated client was unlikely to agree to:
The IMA didnt override the client agreement Mr M already had with the professional 
trustee, which would have prevented it unilaterally placing investments in his SIPP 
without a valid instruction to do so.
The other key parts essentially confirm that wherever practicable any request to vary 
the terms of the loan note would be put to investors for consultation. Again that was a 
feature of the investment Mr M took out and part of the risk: he could not unilaterally 
act in a way that affected other investors interests.
It gave Rockpool the right to accept instructions from Mr Ms adviser. I understand 
the SIPP providers terms were similar. But such terms are common in the industry. 
I therefore fail to see why Rockpool would have suspected  that the adviser would not show 
the content of the IMA to Mr M, when these are terms that investors typically accept. So that 
being the case, it had no reason to suspect that Mr Ms signature on the IMA was obtained 
by any means other than following his full sight of the document.
Rockpool enforcing security against the property
Mr M says that the developer issued more shares and entered into further debt. The 
confidential blueprint said that investors taking up the EIS shares (not Mr M) had the option 
of subscribing for further A shares at £1 per share in the event that the developer had not 
undertaken certain actions by agreed dates. And if those options were not taken up the 
developer had the right to offer them to other investors. As the development was delayed, 
Im not surprised this happened.
I havent been able to glean from the information available what further debts were incurred. 
Certainly no further charges were entered against the developer company between 2015 
and administrators appointment in 2018. Moreover,  the loan notes were secured against 
the property, so as there wasnt even a partial return of capital to note holders I cant see 
how this would have been affected.
Mr M seems to be correct that the articles of association of the developer company allow an 
investor representative to be appointed by the shareholders . This was not however 
concealed from investors: reference to what the articles say is made in the confidential 
blueprint. And its a matter of fact that shareholders have separate rights to lenders as they 
have a different relationship to the company. 
Rockport says that it did consult investors on these matters through updates which were 
circulated on its secure portal and notified by email. Mr M has provided us with some of 
these updates so its clear that he did have access to them whether that is directly, through 
his IFA or the professional trustee  noting that as with Rockpool, the IFA may have been 
able to ask the professional trustee to send him information on Mr Ms behalf. Rockpools 
consultation is consistent with the terms of the IMA which read:The Manager may consent to any variation of the terms of any investment and exercise voting 
rights in relation to any investment, provided that save in circumstances where there is no material 
effect on the value of the security or where it is impractical for Rockpool to do so, Rockpool will 
consult relevant investors before giving such consent or exercising such voting rights and in such 
cases will act in accordance with the wishes of all responding Rockpool clients including the 
investor based on a simple majority by the amount of their respective holdings in the relevant 
security.
SIPP providers or IFAs will typically make a judgement on whether investment updates are 
of material significance to be passed on to the investor. It seems that the IFA did receive the 
update about extending the loan note if, as Mr M says, he objected on Mr Ms behalf but 
spared him the detail of what was happening. The IFAs decision to do that would have been 
a matter for the other complaint. But in any event, its difficult to see how the outcome would 
have differed if Mr M had personally objected. 
Rockpool says that the majority of investors and lenders did not object to the proposal and I 
have no reason to doubt this. In particular I can see why the shareholder investors were 
trying to give the developer a further chance to return a profit. The split nature of the 
investment between some investors holding shares and others holding loan notes was made 
clear in the confidential blueprint. In order to give suitable advice, the IFA would need to 
explain that to Mr M as one of the risks. 
Rockpool cannot fairly or reasonably be held responsible for allegations of impropriety 
against one of the developers directors. It says it gave notice of these allegations in its 
investor updates which I dont think was unreasonable. 
Ultimately, in my view Mr M also hasnt demonstrated how the outcome in terms of not 
ultimately being able to find a buyer for the property is likely to have been affected by any of 
the events Ive covered above.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not make any award. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 October 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman