DRN-2851800
The complaint
Mr K complained about his car insurer Covea Insurance plc. He said it had declined his 
claim for accident damage as it had concerns about it. 
What happened
Mr K made a claim to Covea following an accident. Mr K said the accident had occurred 
during a shopping trip on 15 September 2020. Covea had some concerns, it appointed a 
fraud investigator and on 13 October 2020 Mr K was interviewed. The investigator noted 
some concerns and felt further investigations would be needed. 
Around 25 October 2020 Covea wrote to Mr K. It said that due to its ongoing concerns, it 
wouldnt be dealing with any aspect of the claim at that time. When Mr K complained Covea 
issued a final response letter. The letter dated 11 December 2020 said its position hadnt 
changed but that it couldnt comment on the specific reasons for the decline of the claim. 
Mr K remained unhappy and complained to us.
During our process Covea clarified that Mr Ks claim hasnt been declined; its still open and 
its investigations, which it hopes to conclude soon, are ongoing. Our investigator noted that 
matters had been going on for a while but didnt think that was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. He didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr K said he didnt think it was fair for things to be left open-ended like this. He said it would 
be fair for a timeframe to be set in which the claim would have to be concluded. His 
complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im glad Covea has corrected its position set out in its final response letter and Im sure Mr K 
was relieved to learn that his claim hadnt actually been declined. But I note that the fact that 
the claim is unresolved and ongoing is still a concern for Mr K. However, whilst I can see this 
situation is frustrating for him, Im not persuaded I can reasonably ask Covea to do anything 
more or differently at this time. As I understand it Coveas claim investigations are continuing 
and until those are concluded it cant reasonably be expected to give an answer on the 
claim. And I cant set timescales for which it has to act by because that could unfairly restrict 
its enquiries, or otherwise prevent it from undertaking reasonable investigations to assure 
itself of the validity of the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman