DRN-2335406
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that National Westminster Bank Plcs service 
was poor when G transferred its banking to it. In particular, it says that the bank failed to 
start the switch on the day requested and caused delays in opening a client account.  
Mr K, who is a director of G, brings the complaint on G's behalf. 
What happened
G completed NatWests online application for two bank accounts on 29 April 2019. G wanted 
a current account and a client deposit account. The bank misunderstood this, as it said the 
correct forms hadnt been completed, and opened two current accounts. 
The mistake didnt come to light until the end of May, by which time G had informed its 
clients of the new bank details for making payments. G completed new forms for the client 
account, which NatWest received on 5 June 2019. However, there were further problems 
and delays. 
During this period, G also completed the request to switch its current banking. It asked for 
the switch to occur on 27 June. However, NatWest initiated it on 14 June instead. 
Mr K complained. On 7 June, NatWest replied to the complaint about the client account. The 
bank apologised for its error and poor service and paid G £150 in compensation for the 
inconvenience. On 14 June, the same day it happened, the bank replied to the complaint 
about the switch. It invited G to explain any losses resulting from the error. 
Mr K continued to try and get the client account opened. NatWest issued a further complaint 
response on 10 July, confirming the client account had been opened on 8 July. NatWests 
response again upheld Gs complaint and corrected a small amount of interest and fees. 
Mr K didnt think the banks response had adequately addressed Gs complaint. So he 
referred it to our service. He said the client account problem had caused the business major 
cashflow problems, which were then compounded by the premature switch. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and agreed the bank had made 
some errors. He recommended the bank pay an additional £150 for the switching error, on 
top of the £150 already paid in relation to the client account. NatWest agreed to this, but G 
didnt. 
As evidence of the loss caused to G by the banks errors, Mr K has supplied an invoice for 
£4,800 plus VAT from another limited company he works for, for his time in sorting out the 
errors. He has also told us that he and his brother were forced to inject their own money into 
G to pay staff and suppliers, otherwise the business would have become insolvent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but I agree with our investigator. So Im not 
going to ask NatWest to do anything more. Ill explain why below. 
First, NatWest has accepted that it was at fault in the case of both the current account being 
opened instead of a client account and the premature current account switch. So Im not 
going to discuss these events further here. Whats left for me is to decide on whether 
NatWest has paid enough compensation for its errors, and if not, what the appropriate level 
would be.
The next point I want to make is that the directors are a separate legal entity from G. This is 
Gs complaint and only G is eligible to make it. So I can only make an award in relation to the 
impact on G, not the undoubted stress and frustration that Mr K has suffered.
I know one of the things Mr K has told us is that he and his brother had to inject their own 
cash into Gs bank accounts, because of the cashflow problems NatWest had caused. Whilst 
this was no doubt very inconvenient for Mr K and his brother, I dont think this is evidence of 
inconvenience suffered by G. So I cant award compensation for it.
In response to our investigators request for evidence of Gs loss, Mr K has provided an 
invoice from another firm dated 14 October 2019, billing G for £5,760 (including VAT) for 
time costs of the principal of this firm in assisting with your complaint against NatWest. I 
understand this has been calculated based on 30 hours work at Mr Ks standard hourly rate. 
Although the invoice refers to time spent in assisting with your complaint, I think that Mr K 
is actually referring here to his entire time taken in sorting out the problems with the 
accounts. This included filling in more forms, repeated phone calls and time on hold, chasing 
up missing payments and generally ensuring cashflows were maintained. 
Ive thought very carefully about this invoice. But while Im sure NatWests errors created 
some extra work, I dont think I could reasonably say it would have taken 30 hours of 
additional work. I also note that the invoice was created shortly after our investigator asked 
for evidence of Gs losses. 
I dont doubt that Mr K had to work some extra hours and believes the bank should pay for 
them. But for me to fairly award this claim, I would need to be convinced that this invoice 
would have existed independently of any involvement by this service. And Im not satisfied 
that is the case. Im not persuaded that it is evidence of a valid loss to G.
NatWest accepts it made some errors, and I think its more likely than not that they had an 
impact on the cashflows of G, given its size. I dont doubt that Mr K had to work some extra 
hours, and I know he believes the bank should pay for them. But to uphold this aspect of the 
complaint, Id need to be persuaded that G would have made an additional profit were it not 
for the time Mr K spent on dealing with the banks errors. Based on its profit levels in its past 
accounts, this seems unlikely. 
This leaves me with the question of the inconvenience to G. Mr Ks argument is that the 
main burden of dealing with this complaint fell to him in his capacity as principal of another 
firm. This suggests that most of the inconvenience wasnt borne by G. Nevertheless, I 
consider there would still have been some inconvenience in the form of an additional 
administrative burden to, for example, inform clients of the new account details once the 
client account was open. NatWest had paid £156.39 in compensation before our involvement in this complaint, £150 
for inconvenience relating to the client account and £6.39 for fees paid and interest lost. It 
has since paid a further £150 on the recommendation of our investigator, to cover 
inconvenience caused by the early switch. There is no exact way of putting a price on this 
inconvenience in my view. But on balance, I think £306 is fair compensation for the 
difficulties the banks errors caused. So Im not going to ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My decision is that an additional £150 (£306 in total) is fair 
compensation to settle it. I note that National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid this to 
G so Im not directing it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman