DRN-4248830
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society declined his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In 2014 Mr S purchased a shower from a merchant. In 2018 the shower developed a fault. 
Mr S used his Nationwide credit card to pay for repairs.
In 2022 the shower failed again. Mr S asked the merchant to replace it. The merchant 
offered Mr S a 10% reduction on the cost of a new shower which Mr S says he accepted 
under protest. Mr S used his Nationwide credit card to pay £637.20 for the replacement 
shower.
Mr S contacted Nationwide and said he wanted to make a claim under section 75. He sought 
a refund of 50% of the cost of the new shower plus compensation.
Nationwide investigated the claim and contacted the merchant. The merchant responded 
and disputed the claim. It said that although it wasnt common for a shower to have the same 
fault twice in four years, it could happen, and that in Mr Ss case the fault had been caused 
by limescale build up.
Nationwide declined the claim. It said there wasnt enough evidence to show that there had 
been a breach of contract.
Mr S was unhappy with the outcome and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said there wasnt enough evidence to 
show that there had been a breach of contract and concluded that Nationwide had reached 
the correct outcome.
Mr S didnt agree. He provided links to some customer reviews of the merchant and said the 
goods hadnt lasted for a reasonable period of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Mr Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that Nationwides response to the claim under section 
75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr S hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. The quality 
of goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Mr S purchase the shower in 2014. It was repaired in 2018 and replaced in 2022. In order to 
show that theres been a breach of contract, Mr S would need to provide evidence to show 
that the shower was faulty at the point of supply, or that the repairs hadnt been carried out 
with reasonable care and skill.
I appreciate that Mr S has told this service that the shower stopped working, but this doesnt 
establish whether there was a fault with the shower at the point of supply, or whether the 
repairs fell below standard.
Mr Ss main point is that the shower should have lasted longer than it did. I appreciate that it 
mustve been frustrating for Mr S to experience an issue with the shower only four years 
after it had been repaired. Ive thought carefully about this, and Ive considered whether the 
shower was sufficiently durable, because durability is one aspect of satisfactory quality. 
Having done so, Im not in a position to say that the shower wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
There isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the shower failed prematurely. The 
comments by the merchant about limescale build up suggest that the issue may have been 
caused be general wear and tear. 
On balance, Im unable to say that the shower wasnt of satisfactory quality or that a breach 
of contract has occurred. I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
declined the claim under section 75.
Mr S has raised some customer service issues. Hes unhappy about the time it took for 
Nationwide to provide him with copies of his credit card statements. Ive looked into this, and 
I can see that Mr S requested the statements on 24 November 2022. Nationwide sent the 
statements on 8 December 2022. Mr S didnt receive the statements and on 19 December 
2022 he raised a complaint. Mr S feels that Nationwide shouldve provided the statements 
electronically.
Ive thought about this. However, I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for delays in the 
postal service which are beyond its control. And because we arent a regulator, we cant ask 
Nationwide to change its processes or to provide information in a certain way. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr Ss frustration, I dont think the delay impacted on his ability to raise the 
section 75 claim. 
For these reasons, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman