DRN-4485201
The complaint
Mr F complains that Fairscore Ltd trading as Updraft (Updraft) irresponsibly gave him a 
loan he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr F applied for a loan with Updraft. His application was approved, and he was 
given a loan of £6,000. Mr F was required to pay 47 monthly instalments of £181.39 and a 
final payment of £304.79.
Mr F complained to Updraft in February 2023. He said the loan was unaffordable and 
shouldnt have been approved. Mr F also said he was gambling heavily.
Updraft didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. They said they didnt lend to Mr F irresponsibly and 
had reviewed his bank accounts to assess his income and expenditure details at the time 
which showed the loan was affordable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He thought Updraft had 
completed proportionate checks but didnt make a fair lending decision from those checks. 
He said Updraft should have seen that Mr F was gambling a lot in the time leading up to the 
loan and was borrowing elsewhere as well. And he said that Mr F was paying his monthly 
expenses from his overdraft which wasnt sustainable.
Updraft didnt agree. They said that, had Mr F used the loan for its intended purpose which 
was debt consolidation, this would have improved his situation. They also said it wasnt fair 
to have expected them to have seen that Mr F was gambling extensively as that wasnt 
apparent from the bank statements theyd reviewed. Updraft said they felt the loan was 
affordable.
Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 November 2023, in which I said the following and 
which forms part of my final decision:
Updraft were required to follow the rules and guidance within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook. Of particular relevance to this complaint are the rules and guidance 
contained within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as CONC). Ive had these in 
mind, including other relevant parts of the handbook, when considering whether Updraft 
acted fairly and reasonably.
Before granting the loan, Updraft were required to complete proportionate affordability 
checks. What is considered proportionate will vary depending on the specific circumstances 
of each case, as there isnt a set list of checks that had to be completed. When deciding 
what is proportionate, Updraft needed to take into account things such as (but not limited to): 
the amount borrowed, the cost of credit, the size of the regular repayments, the total 
repayable, the term and the consumers circumstances.
Ive seen a copy of the information Mr F provided to Updraft when he applied for the loan, 
and a copy of the checks they carried out. Mr F declared an annual income of £50,000 on 
the application form and Updraft calculated that his monthly income would be just over 
£3,000, which they verified from Mr Fs bank statements. The credit check Updraft carried 
out showed that Mr F didnt have any current or previous history of difficulty in repaying 
credit. Mr F declared that his normal monthly expenditure was around £350 excluding 
payments to existing creditors. Rather than accept that figure, Updraft used ONS (Office of 
National Statistics) data of just over £630, having reviewed Mr Fs bank statements, and 
attributed Mr Fs monthly home/rent costs to be £312.
Updrafts checks also showed that Mr F had a number of existing unsecured credit 
commitments totalling around £25,500. Further, Mr F said the purpose of the loan was for 
debt consolidation. Given that Mr F told Updraft that the purpose of the loan was for debt 
consolidation, I think they were reasonably entitled to assume that is what he would use the 
loan for. This means Updraft were entitled to believe that their loan was unlikely to increase 
his overall indebtedness.
Updraft used a figure of just over £1,100 in respect of Mr Fs monthly credit commitments. 
Once Mr Fs monthly expenditure was added to this, Updraft calculated that Mr F would have 
around £974 left for other expenses including the proposed £181.39 he would pay each 
month for the loan. I think its arguable this would have been enough to show the lending 
was likely to be affordable to Mr F.
I note though that Updraft saw Mr Fs bank account statements which showed he had been 
overdrawn during certain periods month to month leading up to the loan. I think it would have 
been proportionate therefore for Updraft to have thought about this some more before 
lending.
However, even if they had considered Mr Fs situation in more detail, I dont think this would 
have led to them deciding the loan wasnt affordable. Mr F has said he was gambling heavily 
prior to this. Ive looked at the bank statements that Updraft saw but I dont think this would 
have been apparent to them. I say this because the transactions that Mr F says were for 
gambling arent in my view identifiable as that.
Im not saying these werent gambling transactions and I dont wish to understate the impact 
this has had on Mr F. But the transactions in question are described on the statements as 
spend or other. That could be because these payments were made to overseas gambling 
merchants as Mr F says, which means they wouldnt have used identifiable merchant 
category codes to identify the transactions as being gambling. Even if that wasnt the case, I 
dont see how Updraft could have identified these transactions as gambling.
Ive thought about whether the amount and frequency of these transactions should have 
caused Updraft concern, irrespective of the nature of the spend. However, in my view that is 
complicated by the fact that Mr F transferred money to and from another one of his accounts 
with even more regularity and frequency. Unfortunately, Mr F no longer has access to this 
account and cant provide a copy of the statements for this. 
I cant as a result though be reasonably satisfied that Updraft would have got a clear picture 
of the true nature of Mr Fs financial circumstances, had they considered Mr Fs 
circumstances in more depth, to the extent that they should have realised that granting the 
loan was irresponsible.
Overall, bearing in mind the checks Updraft did, what this showed them, the slightly unclear 
position of Mr Fs circumstances and the intended purpose of the loan, I dont currently find 
that Updraft made an unfair or unreasonable lending decision.I asked Mr F and Updraft to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider. 
Updraft replied saying they accepted my provisional decision. Mr F didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent been sent any further comments or evidence to consider on the merits of this 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, for the reasons given 
in that decision which I have included in my final decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman