DRN-4379228
The complaint
Ms C complains about the service shes received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding 
payments made from her account that she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In May 2022 Ms C attended an HSBC branch to report several unrecognised transactions on 
her account. Ms C says the payments were as follows:
Number Date Amount Merchant
1 12 May 2022 £38.95 D
2 12 May 2022 £34.99 H
3 12 May 2022 £84 D2
4 12 May 2022 £33.89 K
HSBCs notes record that Ms C was put through to their fraud team, but the line cut out. 
There is a suggestion that there was a further call between HSBC and Ms C on 8 July 2022. 
And here statements from that day indicate that HSBC made payments of £84 and £38.95 to 
Ms Cs account. But also that the same amounts were then removed. There was also a 
credit (from HSBC) of £33.89. Ultimately on 9 June 2023 there was a further credit from 
HSBC of £157.94 to Ms Cs account with regard to the disputed transactions. 
Ms C complained to HSBC. She felt a complaint should have been raised about the disputed 
transactions back in May 2022. She was also unhappy as she says a branch staff member 
acted inappropriately by winking at her. 
HSBC believe Ms Cs financial loss has been compensated for. And they offered her £100 
for any distress and inconvenience caused. Ms C rejected this and the complaint was 
considered by our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. Ms C disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first deal with any potential loss to Ms C. The payment to H which Ms C has disputed 
doesnt appear on her statement. She has provided a picture of her phone with that payment 
showing as pending. But having reviewed her statements, I cant see that it ever debited 
her account and therefore I dont think HSBC need to do more in relation to that payment. 
HSBC seem to have accepted the remaining disputed transactions as being unauthorised as 
they have refunded them. Ultimately Ms Cs account was initially debited with £156.84 (the 
sum of payments 1,3 and 4 from the table above) when the payments were made. 
HSBCs actions on 8 July 2022 had the overall impact of refunding £33.89 (payment 4). The 
other refunds were immediately re-debited (something HSBC accepts took place in error)  
meaning the loss to Ms C at that point was £122.95 (£156.84 less £33.89). 
And then HSBCs final refund in June 2023 of £157.94 had the effect of putting Ms C in a 
better (financial position) by £34.99. I say this as the outstanding loss was £122.95 and the 
credit was greater than that amount. 
So, I dont think HSBC needs to do anything further in relation to any potential financial loss 
to Ms C. Im satisfied this has already been refunded. I have gone onto consider whether 
interest ought to be added. But as the additional credit is greater than the interest Id 
consider awarding, I dont think that is appropriate in the circumstances here. 
Ive next gone on to consider the service provided to Ms C. I appreciate it would have been 
frustrating for her claim not to have been dealt with promptly. And Ms C had to chase HSBC 
to get this resolved. When HSBC provided their initial refunds (in June 2022) they made an 
error when re-debiting two of them. Whilst this error ideally shouldnt have happened, Ms C 
didnt make HSBC aware of it until 2023, at which time they acted swiftly. So I dont think 
HSBC are responsible for the time taken to put things right. 
Ms C also says that a branch staff member acted inappropriately and winked at her. In cases 
like this where I wasnt present, I cant know for sure what happened, any decision I reach 
must be made on what I think, on balance, most likely happened. 
HSBC say they have no record of this being raised with them at the time. And their ability to 
investigate this would have been impacted by the time Ms C took to raise it with them 
(although I appreciate some of the delay was as Ms C says she was hospitalised). But 
overall taking everything into consideration I havent seen any evidence that persuades me 
that there wouldve been a reason for a branch staff member to wink at Ms C. Especially 
when weighed against the risk to the member of staff of potentially losing their job.   
Please be assured that Im not saying Ms C hasnt been truthful. Simply that given the 
passage of time it is also very probable that she could be mistaken in her recollection. So, 
Im not persuaded that this is something HSBC should pay additional compensation for. 
Ms C has also raised her concerns about other aspects of the service she received, these 
include the branch not registering a complaint for her when she wanted them to, and the 
time taken to obtain a replacement debit card. She also believes HSBC are responsible for 
her getting into debt and that theyve impacted her credit file. As the disputed transactions 
didnt take Ms C into an overdraft, I dont think anything HSBC did in relation to this 
negatively impacted her credit file or caused her to go into debt. Ive taken all of the above 
into consideration, as well as the fact that Ms C believes around £2,000 compensation to be 
an appropriate amount. Ive considered Ms Cs individual circumstances and the impact 
HSBCs errors had upon her. And having done so, I agree with our Investigator that £100 
compensation is a fair amount to put things right. 
If Ms C would now like to accept this from HSBC, she should contact them to arrange this 
(unless it has already been paid). My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman