DRN-3084857
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain they werent able to port their fixed interest rate mortgage product 
with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) due to the level of deposit they would have 
had to pay. This meant they had to move to a new lender and incurred additional costs. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr J and Mrs J had a capital and interest repayment mortgage with NatWest with a 
two-year fixed interest rate product which expired at the end of December 2017. Under a 
variation agreement they switched to a new five-year fixed interest rate, which was due to 
end in around February 2023. They paid a product fee of around £995 which was added to 
their mortgage.
In July 2020 Mr J asked NatWest about porting the mortgage to a new property he and Mrs J 
wanted to buy. NatWest told Mr J theyd need to pay a 20% deposit towards the new 
property - to come within NatWests new loan to value (LTV) lending criteria - and that an 
early repayment charge (ERC) was payable if they paid back their mortgage within the fixed 
rate period.
Mr J and Mrs J werent able to raise a 20% deposit so moved to another lender. They felt 
NatWest should repay the fee theyd paid for the five-year fixed interest rate product theyd 
taken out. They said they understood that had been the price for ensuring theyd be able to 
port. And they didnt think it was fair they had to pay the ERC.
NatWest didnt uphold their complaint, so they brought it to this service. Our investigator said 
the product fee was the cost of taking out the fixed interest rate product and didnt give a 
guarantee of porting that product. And they said NatWest had made clear an ERC would be 
payable. Since Mr J and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators view, their complaints been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont make any findings in this decision about what NatWest may have discussed with Mr J 
and Mrs J before they switched to the five-year fixed interest rate product, as thats not part 
of their complaint. I note they say their understanding was that by paying the product fee 
theyd ensured theyd be able to port that product when they moved. So, I can understand 
they were disappointed when they werent able to do that in 2020.
I will, however, consider the documents NatWest issued to Mr J and Mrs J before they 
decided to go ahead with the product switch, as theyre relevant to their understanding at 
that point and to what the terms and conditions of the product were. 
Mr J and Mrs J say they originally found a new property they wanted to buy in April 2019. 
When they looked at porting their mortgage product at that time, NatWest only required them 
to provide a 5% deposit. Unfortunately, that deal fell through. 
When they found a buyer for their property and another house to buy in 2020, they thought 
with a slight increase in the deposit to reflect the higher price of the new property theyd 
seen, theyd be able to go ahead. They checked on-line and found NatWest were requiring a 
deposit of 20% - they were only prepared to lend up to 80% of the value of the property they 
were buying. Mr J discussed this with NatWest in July 2020, and they confirmed that was 
right. 
Generally, a product fee is paid for the product itself, not to secure any sort of guarantee that 
the interest rate product can be ported to another property. And in Mr J and Mrs Js case the 
mortgage illustration that formed part of the variation agreement said that it would only be 
possible to port the product if NatWests lending criteria at the time of the move were met. 
The illustration set that out in terms that were clear, fair and not misleading, as Id expect 
them to. It said:
Your new application must meet our lending criteria current at the time you move. 
We will carry out credit checks on you, and will require a valuation of the new 
property, and will decline to port if you do not meet our criteria in force at that time. 
This may mean that we decline to lend at all on the new property, or may allow you to 
port less than the amount you have applied for.
NatWest told Mr J in July 2020 theyd need to pay a 20% deposit towards the new property. 
This was because NatWest had taken a commercial decision, which theyd advertised, not to 
offer products for loans over 80% LTV having reassessed the risks they were prepared to 
take in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Its reasonable for NatWest to review and change their lending criteria as commercial 
circumstances change. Given the uncertainties the Covid-19 pandemic brought to the 
property market, its not surprising NatWest and other lenders reviewed their lending criteria 
at the time. Since they were applying this across their customers, it was fair for them to apply 
this to Mr J and Mrs J as well even though, as Mr J and Mrs J have argued, theyd been 
loyal customers with a good financial record. 
The mortgage illustration also set out clearly that if Mr J and Mrs J repaid the mortgage 
during the five-year fixed rate period, theyd be liable to pay an ERC. Mr J and Mrs J are 
unhappy theyve had to pay the ERC and consider it to be a penalty.
ERCs are allowed for in the mortgage rules set by the regulator and are standard across the 
mortgage industry. They are there to cover the costs to the lender of a borrower repaying 
their mortgage before a fixed interest rate product has come to an end.
When a lender provides a mortgage, it first has to have raised the money to lend, usually
through the money markets or from funds its savers have deposited with the lender. A lender
also has to hold certain levels of capital depending on the level and risk of debt they are
exposed to. All these things generally come at a cost. 
A lender recovers those costs, along with some profit, by charging interest on the mortgages 
it provides. Where a lender gives a fixed interest rate, the lender budgets to recover its costs 
over the fixed rate period. Where a mortgage is redeemed before the fixed interest rate 
period ends, the lender wont have recovered its budgeted costs in full. The ERC is there to 
cover the balance of those costs.Mr J and Mrs J were able to get out of the mortgage with NatWest in return for covering 
those costs  by paying the ERC. They knew theyd have to pay it before they went ahead 
with their move. So it was their choice and, in all the circumstances, I think it was fair they 
paid it. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mr J and Mrs J, I 
dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman