DRN-2312142
The complaint
Miss C, Mr W and Mr W are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) turned down their 
claim for water damage under their home insurance policy.
For ease, I will refer only to Mr W in my decision.
What happened
Mr W contacted AXA to make a claim for an escape of water that had damaged joists in his 
home. By the time Mr W made the claim, the repair had already been carried out. AXA 
declined the claim because it said that it wasnt satisfied that the damage was the result of 
an insured event, as it hadnt found evidence of a water leak.
Mr W complained to the service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
that AXA had acted reasonably in turning down the claim, as there wasnt evidence that the 
damage was the result of a water leak.
As Mr W did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 30 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The starting point for a claim to be considered is that an insured event has taken place, in 
this case a water leak. It is normally for the insured to show that this is the case. Once this 
has been done, the insurer should meet the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy, so long as no exclusions apply.
In this instance, AXA turned down the claim because it didnt think there was enough 
evidence to show that an insured event, the water leak, had taken place. So, Ive thought 
about this and the reasons for AXA reaching this decision.
By the time that Mr W made the claim, the damage had already been repaired. Mr W 
explained that this was because he had bought the property shortly before the claim and 
only became aware of the damage after he moved in. It was only when he went to make the 
claim that he realised his solicitor hadnt transferred the insurance correctly, so he was 
unable to make a claim at that time. Because of the urgency of the repair, he went ahead 
with the work and then made a claim after the insurance had been transferred.
As part of Mr Ws claim, he provided AXA with an invoice from the company that carried out 
the work and some photos of the damage. The invoice described the work carried out, which 
included removing the sanitary ware and then assessing the condition of the joists, including 
replacing any damaged joists or doubling them up. It also showed that additional work was 
carried out to re-do the pipe work for the hot and cold feed in the bathroom where needed. 
The invoice didnt include any assessment of the cause of the damage or the reason for 
carrying out the work. The photos, taken both from above and below, showed extensive 
damage to floorboards.
AXA contacted the company that carried out the work to ask it to confirm the cause of the 
damage and whether it was due to a water leak or rot. The company declined to confirm a 
cause but said that both a water leak or rot were possible causes. 
Ive also read the homebuyers report that was carried out a couple of months before Mr W 
bought the property. This made a number of comments about the possibility of damp or rot in 
the property due to its construction, including that there were a number of high moisture 
levels at various places in the property. The report included a section on bathroom fittings, 
but makes no comment on the condition of the bathroom beyond that. There was a comment 
within the report about the condition of the flooring in the property as a whole. This described 
it as relatively even and firm to tread with no signs of springing or distortion. The report also 
commented that the majority of pipework was concealed from view, but the pipework that 
was visible had no obvious signs of defect.
Ive thought about this carefully. It would have been helpful if the company that carried out 
the work was willing to confirm what it thought was the most likely cause of the damage. My 
understanding is that its the standard practice of that company not to confirm this type of 
information to insurers, which Ive noted, but it does mean that there is a key piece of 
information missing. This means that I have to decide what I think is the most likely cause 
based on the other information available.
Looking at the homebuyers report, this showed that there were no issues identified with the 
flooring at the point that the survey was carried out. However, shortly after moving into the 
property, Mr W noticed that the bathroom floor was depressed in one place, which is what 
caused him to contact a company to get it investigated. I dont think that there is enough 
information to show whether the damage was more likely to be caused by a water leak or 
rot, but I do think that it is more likely than not that the damage only became apparent 
around this time.
So, Ive looked at what was found when work was carried out to deal with the damage. This 
resulted in the flooring being looked at from underneath by accessing it via a cellar. This 
found that a joist appeared to be rotten and that due to that rotten joist the weight of the bath 
was resting on a water pipe, which was then resting on a gas pipe.
Im aware that I havent seen clear evidence that a water leak was actually found and dealt 
with. In part this is because the repair company has been unwilling to confirm one way or the 
other. However, looking at the invoice, that also doesnt make it clear whether a leak was 
stopped. I can see though that the company carried out additional work by redoing the 
pipework for the hot and cold feed in the bathroom, but the invoice doesnt explain why this 
was necessary. Mr W said that the company had to replace damaged piping in order to 
reconnect the bath. Although I dont think that a leak was the only reason why this would 
happen, Mr W said that was why it was done and I think this is credible.
Ive also looked at the location of the damage. Mr W said that the damage is mainly 
concentrated around the bath plumbing. Looking at a photo that Mr W provided, I can see 
that this is the case.
So, thinking about all of the above and given the location of the damage and that some 
pipework was replaced, which Mr W says was replaced because it was damaged, I think that 
it is more likely than not that there was a water leak and that this resulted in the bathroom 
floor rotting.
I also note that AXA didnt rule out that a water leak might be the cause, but said that even if 
there was a leak that it appeared that the damage had been ongoing for some time, so the claim would not be covered due to an exclusion for gradual deterioration. So, Ive thought 
about this as well. 
This service would say that it is unfair for an insurer to rely on this type of exclusion to 
decline a claim if:
The damage was caused by something covered by the policy; and
The policyholder wasnt aware, or couldnt reasonable have been aware, of the damage 
occurring.
I dont think that there was a way for Mr W to have been aware of this damage before he 
found the depressed floor. This is because the homebuyers report didnt show there was an 
issue, he then only found the damage shortly after he moved in a few months later. The 
damage was also primarily under the bath, so was unlikely to have been visible until the 
damage appeared on the bathroom floor. So I cant see that it would be fair to expect that Mr 
W, or the previous owner, should have been aware of this sooner.
I also accept that rot is an exclusion under the policy, but I think, in this case, the gradual 
damage and the rot are, in effect, interchangeable terms because the rot was the gradual 
damage that occurred as a result of the insured event, the water leak. So, for the same 
reasons as above, I also dont think that it would be fair for the rot exclusion to apply.
AXA also said that Mr W prejudiced its position by carrying out the work before it had the 
chance to inspect the damage. Although this is correct, Ive considered this in the wider 
context of what happened. At the time Mr W found the damage, the insurance policy hadnt 
been transferred into his name from the previous flat owner, which it seems was due to his 
solicitor not arranging this. So, I dont think that was Mr Ws fault. This meant that he wasnt 
in a position to make a claim when he found the damage, but I dont think it would have been 
reasonable to leave the damage until he could. In part, because an insurer would expect a 
policyholder to take action to mitigate the loss, which he couldnt do by making a claim at 
that time. But also, given that the floor was showing signs of rot, in what I understand was Mr 
Ws only bathroom, I can see why he thought it was urgent that he dealt with it.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im currently of the view that it is more likely than not that 
the damage was due to a water leak and that even though it appears that the damage may 
have been there for some time, I dont think he would have been aware of it until he found 
the depressed floor, so I dont think that the gradual deterioration or rot exclusions can 
reasonably be applied by AXA. Im therefore minded to uphold this complaint and to say that 
AXA should reimburse Mr Ws costs for having the rot damage repaired, subject to any 
required excess being deducted.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 October 2020.
Mr W said he had nothing to add.
AXA disagreed with my decision. It said that any evidence presented had been disregarded 
to show that there was no cover under the policy and that my decision was based on giving 
Mr W the benefit of the doubt. It said that it hadnt been given the opportunity to inspect the 
damage and on that basis its position had been prejudiced. It said that the Mr Ws contractor 
hadnt referenced a leak or that it had repaired any pipework. AXA thought that because Mr 
Ws contractor wouldnt commit to a cause for the damage that this more likely indicated the 
cause was due to an ongoing issue rather than a leak. It also said that the photos showed 
clear evidence of rot. On the balance of probabilities, AXA thought there was no evidence of 
a leak. It also thought that the damage would have been evident to the previous owner, who made no effort to mitigate her losses. AXA also said the rot was the result of gradual 
deterioration, which wasnt covered by the policy. AXA also referred to a second claim for a 
water leak that Mr W had submitted, which didnt progress. AXA said the loss adjuster found 
evidence of gradual deterioration in that case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my original decision to uphold this complaint. As 
part of that, I have carefully considered the comments made by AXA. To be clear, I looked at 
all the evidence provided by both parties about what happened. I considered each element 
of the complaint individually to think about what I thought was most likely to have happened 
and why, as well as looking at the circumstances as a whole. I made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities based on what I thought was most likely to have happened.
Ive thought about AXAs more recent comments. Im aware that Mr Ws contractor wouldnt 
confirm the likely cause of the leak. I dont agree with AXA that this makes it more likely that 
the cause of the leak was something other than a water leak. This is because it is my 
understanding that the contractor, as standard, doesnt confirm details to insurers. So, this 
doesnt cause me to think that the contractors reason for not doing so was to avoid saying it 
wasnt the result of a leak or to somehow advantage Mr W. Also, although AXA has said 
there was no evidence of a repair to a pipe, the invoice for the balance of the works said 
Re-did the pipe work for hot & cold feed in bathroom where needed. So, I think there is 
evidence that there was an issue with the pipework for the water supply, which meant that it 
needed to be replaced. A lot of the damage was also focussed around where the water 
pipes were located.
AXA has also argued that the damage would have been obvious to the previous owner. I 
dont think that is a given. The damage wasnt identified when the homebuyers survey was 
carried out, so I think it is reasonable to conclude that the damage became apparent after 
the survey took place. AXA hasnt provided any evidence that the damage would have been 
apparent before Mr W found it shortly after moving in or that the previous owner was aware 
of it and failed to take action. 
I also accept that Mr W prejudiced AXAs position by carrying out the works before AXA was 
able to inspect it. But, as AXA is aware, there were unusual circumstances with this case, in 
that there was an issue with the transfer of the insurance policy. So, he wasnt in a position 
to make a claim at the time the damage was found. But I think it was reasonable for Mr W to 
take action to deal with the issue when he did, given that the problem could have got worse 
if he had left it until he could claim on his policy. It also caused problems with him being able 
to use his bathroom.
Im aware that AXA has referred to another claim that Mr W made for a water leak. However, 
I dont think its fair to provide this evidence at this stage and the circumstances of the other 
claim isnt part of this claim.
Having thought about AXAs comments, I remain of the view that the most likely cause of the 
damage was a water leak.
AXA has also argued that gradual deterioration isnt covered by the policy. I agree that it is 
excluded and was aware of this when I issued my provisional decision. However, sometimes 
when damage occurs gradually it happens in such a way that the policyholder doesnt know 
it is occurring, sometimes for quite some while. When this happens this service often finds it unfair for an insurer to rely on any exclusion for gradual deterioration in order to defeat its 
liability for any loss.
Given the circumstances of this case, I dont think that the gradual deterioration exclusion 
can reasonably be applied. The damage wasnt identified in the homebuyers report, the 
majority of the damage was hidden under a bath and only seems to have become apparent 
when an exposed part of the floor became depressed and Mr W found the damage shortly 
after he moved into the property. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to think that Mr W 
would have been aware of the damage earlier than he was or could have taken action any 
sooner.
Putting things right
AXA must deal with the claim and reimburse Miss C, Mr W and Mr Ws costs for having the 
repairs carried out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Deal with the claim and reimburse Miss C, Mr W and Mr Ws costs for having the repairs 
carried out, subject to any required excess being deducted.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date that Miss C, Mr W and Mr W made 
their claim.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C, Mr W and Mr Ws how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss C, Mr W and Mr Ws a certificate showing this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C, Mr W and 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman