DRN-3535886
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about poor service and advice from Key Mortgage Advice Limited. 
They say theyre out of pocket as a result and ask for compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took mortgage advice from Key Mortgage in mid-2021. Key Mortgage 
recommended a mortgage and applied to the lender on their behalf. Mrs F says the adviser 
emailed her a quote which included a home buyers report. She says this wasnt discussed 
and she thought it was required by the lender. Shes since discovered it was optional and 
says she wouldnt have paid for it if shed known. Mrs F also says the survey fee they were 
charged was for properties in a higher price bracket.
I sent a provisional decision setting out why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I said 
Key Mortgage wasnt responsible for Mr and Mrs Fs misunderstanding about whether the 
home buyers report was required by the lender.
Mrs F said they relied on Key Mortgage for advice. She said they hadnt bought a house in 
10 years, and regulations and processes must change especially during the pandemic. 
Mrs F said they didnt ask more questions about the home buyers report because from the 
way it was presented they thought it was mandatory. 
Mrs F didnt agree that they had time to review the mortgage offer in enough detail to realise 
the home buyers report wasnt required, given postal delays at that time, and their work and 
family responsibilities and her health. 
Mrs F said the whole mortgage product is a recommendation and if they wanted the house 
they had to buy the product, so she didnt view the term recommended as optional. Mrs F 
said, in summary, it was Key Mortgages responsibility to ensure there was no 
misunderstanding about whether the home buyers report was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Did Key Mortgage make it clear the home buyers report was optional?
Key Mortgage says it recommends customers have a home buyers report when properties 
are more than 10 years old. The property Mr and Mrs F bought was about 50 years old. Key 
Mortgage says a more thorough inspection ensures defects are highlighted, and this was 
especially important during the Covid-19 pandemic when many lenders didnt carry out a 
physical valuation (as was the case here). Mrs F says desk top valuations are now common. 
I dont think that changes the point made by Key Mortgage, which is that there are benefits 
to a physical inspection.
Mr and Mrs F say they thought the home buyers report was a necessary part of the process, 
without which they wouldnt be offered a mortgage. Mrs F doesnt say they were told it was 
required. They just werent told that it wasnt. 
At the heart of this complaint is whether Key Mortgage made it clear to Mr and Mrs F that 
while it recommended a home buyers report this was not required. Ive looked carefully at 
what information Key Mortgage gave to Mr and Mrs F.
Key Mortgage sent a recommendation to Mr and Mrs F. This set out fees, including £200 
valuation fee and £480 home buyers report  recommended for properties over 10 yrs old.
Key Mortgage sent a mortgage illustration to Mr and Mrs F dated 12 July 2021. This set out 
the £200 valuation fee payable to the lender. It didnt mention the home buyers report.
Key Mortgage called Mrs F to discuss the recommendation before making the application to 
the lender. Ive listened to this call. Mrs F didnt have the recommendation letter to hand and 
Key Mortgage said it would go through it. They discussed the fees, including for the lenders 
valuation and for the home buyers report. Key Mortgages adviser referred to the standard 
valuation fee to pay to the lender for the basic survey for the mortgage and said were 
recommending the home buyers report for any property over 10 years old.
On balance, I think the information Key Mortgage gave to Mr and Mrs F was sufficiently clear 
that the home buyers report was recommended. I think the natural meaning of this is that it 
thought it was a good idea, not that it was required by the lender.
Mrs F says the whole mortgage product is a recommendation and if they wanted the house 
they had to buy the product, so she didnt view the term recommended as optional. To an 
extent I agree  to buy the property Mr and Mrs F did need a mortgage. But the mortgage 
recommendation was just that  a recommendation. If Mr and Mrs F werent happy with what 
was recommended, they didnt have to accept it. They could have asked Key Mortgage to 
look for a different mortgage. 
A mortgage offer was issued on 21 July 2021 and Mr and Mrs F would likely have received it 
by post within a few days. The mortgage offer set out the £200 valuation fee payable to the 
lender. It said the valuation had been completed by a surveyor. The mortgage offer didnt 
mention the home buyers report.
Mrs F says they didnt realise the mortgage offer meant theyd get the mortgage  they 
thought it was conditional like the mortgage in principle and thered be further checks on the 
property. If Key Mortgage had known Mr and Mrs F thought this, then it ought to have 
explained that the lender relied on the valuation carried out on its behalf and didnt require a 
further surveyors report. But based on the available evidence I dont think Key Mortgage did 
know this.
Mrs F said there wasnt time after receiving the mortgage offer to cancel the home buyers 
survey, given postage time and demands of work and family life. The mortgage offer would 
have arrived by post a few days after it was issued on 21 July 2021. I appreciate that there 
were postal delays at the time, and Mrs F cant remember exactly when the mortgage offer 
arrived. But Mrs F said they wanted to move things along quickly, to try and complete during 
the stamp duty holiday. So Id expect them to remember if there was a significant delay with 
the mortgage offer arriving. Id also expect them to want to read the mortgage offer when it 
arrived, given this set out the main terms of the mortgage they were taking out. On balance, I think Mr and Mrs F had enough time to read the mortgage offer and cancel the surveyors 
visit to the property.
Mrs F said it wasnt for her to try to work out as the matter progressed whether the home 
buyers report was required. But, as Ive said, she wasnt told it was required and I dont think 
Key Mortgage was aware that she thought it was. Neither the mortgage illustration nor the 
mortgage offer said the lender required a home buyers report. 
Did Key Mortgage give Mr and Mrs F clear information about the cost of the home buyers 
report?
Mrs F says they were told by Key Mortgage the home buyers report would cost £480, but 
were charged £528.
Key Mortgage says the price originally given was for a particular firm of surveyors. However, 
this firm wasnt accepting new instructions due to work volumes. It put Mr and Mrs F in touch 
with a local firm of surveyors. Key Mortgage says the surveyor dealt with Mr and Mrs F 
directly, including regarding its fees. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to say that 
Key Mortgage is responsible for the fee agreed by Mr and Mrs F with the surveyor. If Mr and 
Mrs F wanted more information about what was included in the home buyers report they 
could have asked Key Mortgage or the surveyor.
Mrs F asked if two valuations were necessary, or if they could have saved money by the 
lender relying on the valuation in the home buyers report from their surveyor. Its likely the 
lender would want to instruct its own valuer. However, Mr and Mrs F could have asked for 
the lender to arrange a valuation and survey. Its likely this would have been cheaper for Mr 
and Mrs F than paying separately for the lenders valuation and their own home buyers 
report.
We asked Key Mortgage why it didnt discuss this option with Mr and Mrs F. It said it 
recommends customers arrange their own home buyers report as it gives them more control. 
For instance, whether to follow up any recommendations for specialist reports which a lender 
might otherwise require (adding to cost and delays). It also means the customer can discuss 
their requirements and any issues with the property with the surveyor, which isnt the case 
when the lender arranges the survey. Its unclear what the timing would have been for the 
lender to arrange a survey, which (unlike the valuation) would require a physical inspection 
of the property.
Given what Mrs F has said about timing and her concerns that problems disclosed by the 
survey would cause the lender to decline to lend, I think its unlikely shed have chosen a 
survey organised by the lender, if Key Mortgage had made her aware of this option.
Did the homebuyers report delay completion?
Mrs F says they wanted to complete before the end of the stamp duty holiday brought in by 
the UK Government (30 September 2021). She says the estate agent and their solicitor were 
chasing for the home buyer report which made her think it had stalled the process. She says 
they wouldnt have had the home buyers report if theyd known it was optional as they 
wanted to remove any unnecessary steps that could cause a delay.
Mrs F hasnt said why their solicitor was chasing for the home buyers report  most likely this 
was because they wanted to see if there was anything in the report they werent aware of 
and needed to follow up, such as planning consents and guarantees for work on the 
property. The surveyor inspected the property on 2 August 2021, almost two months before 
Mr and Mrs Fs purchase completed. It was a few days before Mrs F found the report in her spam folder, but this still left more than seven weeks before the stamp duty holiday ended. 
Mrs F said each additional step had a knock-on effect on timing. But, in the circumstances, I 
think its unlikely that the reason Mr and Mrs Fs purchase didnt complete before the end of 
the stamp duty holiday was due to the home buyer report.
Mrs F says Key Mortgage didnt tell them about the stamp duty holiday. She says luckily they 
were made aware of it by other parties. As Mr and Mrs F were aware of the stamp duty 
holiday, it seems unlikely it would have made any difference to the outcome if Key Mortgage 
had also told them about it.
Does Key Mortgage need to take further steps or pay compensation? 
Mr and Mrs F didnt realise the home buyers report was optional until after it was carried out. 
But that doesnt necessarily mean that Key Mortgage made an error. I think this was an 
unfortunate misunderstanding. Key Mortgage didnt tell Mr and Mrs F the home buyers 
report was required, and I dont think it was aware that they thought it was. I cant fairly say 
that Key Mortgage was at fault for failing to correct a misunderstand that it wasnt aware of. 
I dont think Key Mortgage could reasonably have known that Mr and Mrs F thought its 
recommendation to have a survey was a requirement by the lender to do so, especially after 
theyd received a mortgage offer which set out the lenders valuation.
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs F feel the money spent on the home buyers report was wasted and 
could have been better spent. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Key 
Mortgage to compensate them for the cost of the survey, or any delays with completion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman