DRN-3104498
The complaint
Mr M complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to terminate 
his income protection claim.
  
What happened
Mr M is a member of his employers group income protection scheme.
In 2015, Mr M stopped work after having a heart attack. A claim was submitted to 
Aviva, which was accepted.
In 2018 and 2019 Aviva carried out a review of the claim. It thought the medical evidence 
no longer supported that Mr M was incapacitated. It decided to terminate the claim in May 
2019, though it agreed to pay Mr M full benefit until the end of August 2019.
Mr M appealed against Avivas decision, and provided further evidence. However, Aviva 
maintained its decision to terminate the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that whilst Mr 
M had some ongoing symptoms, the medical evidence didnt show that this prevented 
Mr M from working in his occupation.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2021. Heres what I said:
The policys definition of incapacity requires Mr M to be unable to carry out the material 
and substantial duties of his own occupation due to illness or injury.
The first point I need to consider are the duties involved with Mr Ms occupation. Aviva 
says that Mr M has a sedentary office-based role which doesnt require any physical 
activity.
However, Mr M disputes this. He says he inputs data into machines and does so 
standing up the entire time. Hes also explained that his role involves a lot of walking to 
the various machines, depending which ones he needs to work on.
If Aviva disagrees with Mr Ms description of his occupation, it should clarify this with Mr 
Ms employer and provide any further comments to me about the matter in response to 
this provisional decision.
In terminating the claim, the onus falls on Aviva to show that Mr M was no longer 
incapacitated, and that he could carry out the material and substantial duties of his 
role.
Ive considered all of the medical evidence provided, but I wont refer to all of that 
here. Instead, Ive included the evidence I find to be most relevant.
Mr M has been under the care of Dr P (consultant cardiologist) from 2015. I understand 
that Mr M had treatment for his cardiac problems in 2015 and 2016, and there was a 
dramatic improvement after that. In 2018, Dr P said that Mr M had been well from a 
cardiac viewpoint ever since his treatment. However, he also said that Mr M continued to 
complain of ongoing breathlessness, for which hed been under investigation.
In May 2019, Dr P noted that Mr M had had various investigations into his ongoing 
breathlessness, and that it appeared he didnt have any significant problems with his 
lung function. Dr P said that based on the results he had at the time, from a cardiac 
perspective and lung perspective, there was no reason why Mr M couldnt work. Though 
he added that he thought Mr M had deconditioned physically which he thought may 
hamper his ability to perform the tasks and responsibilities of his role.
Dr P then provided further comments the following month. He said thered been 
significant non-cardiac investigations from a respiratory and ENT point of view to 
establish why Mr M was so breathless. Dr P suggested that opinions be sought from 
ENT, respiratory and Mr Ms GP.
I see that Aviva did seek an opinion from Mr Ms ENT specialist, but he could only provide 
a report based on the clinical aspects of Mr Ms status. He thought any work-related 
questions should be asked to an independent specialist.
Mr M continued to have further investigations into his breathlessness. In July 2020, Dr P 
said that, whilst Mr Ms heart function had recovered to almost normal, there was a 
question mark over his coronary blood supply. He also said he thought Mr M had low 
functional capacity due to his profound shortness of breath and couldnt see how Mr M 
would be able to do his job. He planned to do a coronary angiogram before he 
conclusively said that Mr Ms coronary arteries were normal. In the same month, Dr P 
wrote directly to Mr M and said that for him, Mr Ms breathlessness was enough to indicate 
that he couldnt perform his (work) duties, regardless of his cardiac status.
I note that Aviva obtained the opinion of its chief medical officer (CMO) at this period. The 
CMO said that once Mr M had had his angiogram, if he were found to have severe 
coronary disease as a cause for his shortness of breath, he accepted that this may have 
a bearing on Mr Ms ability to work.
I think its worth pointing out here that the policy doesnt require there to be an 
established cause for Mr Ms symptoms.
Nonetheless, after the angiogram was carried out, Mr Ms right coronary artery was found 
to be completed occluded. Dr P said Mr Ms heart function was the same as it was in 
2016. However, he said that Mr M had elevated pressure within the heart which he 
thought may well be contributing to his symptoms, and may have been for some time. Dr 
P thought this provided some explanation for Mr Ms difficulty to do even a low level of 
exertion. He also said he had no doubt that Mr Ms shortness of breath was multifactorial, 
but the raised pressure was contributing. In light of that, he said Mr Ms cardiac status 
may well prohibit him from working. Dr P thought Mr Ms occluded vessel may also be 
contributory, but thought it was difficult to be sure about that.
Its not known when Mr Ms cardiac status changed. Although his heart function had 
remained the same since 2016, Dr P had found in 2020 that he had elevated pressure in 
the heart that was thought to be contributing to Mr Ms shortness of breath. Dr P had tried 
to carry out several previous investigations, but hadnt been able to do so because of Mr 
Ms inability to lie flat due to his breathlessness. This was why Dr P eventually decided to 
carry out the angiogram. If those investigations had been carried out earlier, Mr Ms raised pressure may well have been identified sooner. Crucially Dr P thought the elevated 
pressure may have been contributing to Mr Ms symptoms for some time.
I appreciate that Dr P thought that Mr Ms shortness of breath was multifactorial. 
However, its not in dispute that Mr M experiences this shortness of breath. Hes had 
many investigations to try and establish a reason for it, and one such reason has now 
been found. Although Dr P stated in 2018 that from a cardiac and lung perspective, he 
could see no reason why Mr M couldnt work, he didnt know about Mr Ms raised 
pressure in the heart at that time. Furthermore, he wasnt asked about Mr Ms ability to 
work based on his shortness of breath. I think Dr P later made it clear that he thought Mr 
Ms breathlessness did prevent him from working.
Mr Ms GP was also of the view that his breathlessness prevented him from working. HIs 
GP even went so far as to say that he didnt think it was likely that Mr M would ever be 
able to return to work again.
Furthermore, Mr M was seen by consultant occupational health physicians throughout 
2018, 2019 and 2020. All of those physicians found that Mr M was unfit for work because 
of his ongoing breathlessness.
Overall, I think the medical evidence supports that Mr Ms breathlessness prevented him 
from working. If it were the case that his role was an office-based sedentary one as Aviva 
has said, then I might question why breathlessness would prevent him from working in a 
role where no physical activity was required. However, based on Mr Ms explanation of 
what his role involves, I can understand why breathlessness on minimal exertion would 
impact his ability to do his role. Consequently, and unless Aviva provides new evidence to 
support that Mr Ms role was completely sedentary and didnt involve standing or any 
walking to and from the various machines he worked on, I think it should reinstate the 
claim.
Mr M has explained how he and his family have been impacted by Avivas decision to 
terminate his claim. Its caused him a great deal of worry, and his wife has needed to 
work additional hours to make up for his lack of income. I think Aviva should pay Mr M 
additional compensation of £350 to recognise this.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I reached a final decision.
Aviva responded to say it disagrees with my provisional decision and made the following 
points:
It says the information previously given to it by Mr Ms employer is that he was 
responsible for performing machine operations in a manufacturing environment. The 
employer was asked if Mr Ms role involved driving, carrying heavy items, crawling or 
kneeling, computer operation, and any other physical exertion. The employer said 
that Mr Ms role was 100% computer operation. Aviva also said that in response to 
the same questions, Mr M said that his role involved computer operation and walking.
Aviva says that, because of this, there is no evidence to suggest that Mr Ms role 
involves extensive physical work or heavy manual labour, and so his claim has 
always been assessed as sedentary. Aviva says that whilst Mr M may have been 
required to stand and walk, theres no evidence to suggest this was a significant part 
of this role. It also said that his employer is required to consider reasonable 
adjustments, and it can see no reason why Mr M cant be provided with a chair so he 
can input the data into the machines. Finally, Aviva said that whilst it accepts Mr M experiences ongoing breathlessness, it 
doesnt think this prevents him from doing his role.  
Mr M responded to say that his employer has since ended his employment, and he thinks 
this was the result of Avivas decision to stop paying his claim. He also said that he thinks 
the £350 compensation seems low for the pain that the experience has caused his family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Avivas comments in respect of Mr Ms job role. Its unfortunate though 
that Aviva didnt contact Mr Ms employer directly to establish whether he was required to 
stand at the machines all day (or if he could use a chair as Aviva has suggested), and 
whether he was required to walk significant distances between machines. 
Aviva had contacted Mr Ms employer when the claim was first made, and had established 
that he didnt drive vehicles, carry heavy items, or crawl or kneel as part of his role. But Mr M 
isnt disputing this. 
I accept that Mr Ms role doesnt involve extensive physical work or heavy manual labour, but 
based on what Mr M has said about his role (and Aviva hasnt provided any evidence to 
contradict this), I think it has to be taken into account that his role isnt sedentary as Aviva 
says. 
Dr P, Mr Ms GP, and the occupational health physicians all thought that Mr Ms 
breathlessness would prevent him from being able to carry out his role. Whilst Aviva doesnt 
agree, Im not persuaded that Aviva has shown that Mr M could do his role, and for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision. Consequently, I remain of the view that Aviva 
shouldnt have terminated the claim when it did.
Mr M explains that his employer chose to end his employment, and he thinks this was due to 
Avivas decision to turn down the claim. 
Mr M has provided this service with a letter from his former employer. This explains that 
Mr Ms employment ended because of his long-term ill-health, and the letter makes direct 
reference to Avivas decision to stop paying benefit. On balance, I think its reasonable to 
conclude from this letter that Mr Ms employment wouldnt have ended if Aviva hadnt 
terminated his claim. Because of this, I require Aviva to pay the benefit directly to Mr M as if 
the policy was still in force. 
We made Aviva aware of my intention to require it to pay Mr M benefit directly. Aviva says 
that it cant do so because the contract of insurance is between Aviva and Mr Ms former 
employer. It has also referred to the policy terms which say that a claim will terminate when 
the employee leaves the service of the employer. Finally, Aviva says the policy ended in 
October 2018.
Although the policy ended in October 2018, I note that Aviva continued to make payment to 
Mr M until August 2019. The policy terms dont allow Aviva to stop paying a valid claim 
because the policy has ended. 
I accept the policy terms say that a claim will terminate when an employee leaves the 
service of the employer. However, since Im satisfied that Avivas incorrect termination of the 
claim led to Mr Ms employment ending, I think itd be fair and reasonable for Aviva to continue paying benefit. The usual approach of this service in such circumstances is that 
benefit should be paid directly to Mr M, rather than his former employer. 
Mr M says he thinks £350 compensation is too low, but he hasnt explained his reasoning for 
that. Based on the information Mr M previously gave to this service regarding the impact to 
him as a result of Avivas claims decision, I remain satisfied that £350 compensation is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to reinstate the claim from the date it was terminated, in line with the remaining 
policy terms. Interest should be added to the backdated payments at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date each payment was due to the date of settlement*. 
As Mr M is no longer employed, Aviva should pay him directly.
I also require Aviva to pay Mr M £350 compensation.
* If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman