DRN-3344671
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He has complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) didnt pay him 
enough to settle his business interruption insurance claim.  
 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters.  
What happened
Mr M held a business protection insurance policy with Lloyds to cover his guest house. He 
claimed on his policy for loss of income after a neighbours wall collapsed on 15 February 
2020. Mr M said this prevented customers from accessing his premises.  
 
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to look into the claim. The loss adjuster said that the Local 
Authority had closed the road to vehicles and pedestrians as a result of the collapsed wall. 
 
The loss adjuster also said: 
 
Closure of [name of road] has, undoubtedly, hindered access to the Insureds 
premises [name of road] is a single track one way road. 
 
Due to its restricted width it is not possible for vehicles to turn around and with the 
road now being blocked there is, effectively, no vehicular access to Insureds 
premises at all. 
 
The only way to, now, access the Insureds premises is on foot for a distance of 
approximately one quarter mile half of which is up a one in four hill. 
This will clearly have an affect [sic] on bookings. 
 
However, we expect bookings to be affected by the current Corona Virus 
pandemic. 
 
Lloyds accepted that access to Mr Ms premises was hindered but didnt think it was 
prevented. It said Mr M didnt have to close his premises as there was access from the other 
end of the road.  
 
Lloyds said it could understand why Mr M would want to have told its guests about the 
problems with access and, if those guests cancelled as a result, those cancellations would 
be considered. However, Lloyds said the policy was designed to put Mr M back into the 
position he would have been in if not for the collapsed wall, and his business would have 
been closed anyway from 23 March due to Government Regulations in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It also thought that there would have been a downturn in business in the 
weeks leading up to 23 March due to the pandemic. On the basis of this reasoning, Lloyds 
offered Mr M £600 to settle his claim.   
  
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He said there 
was no vehicular access to the property, and he couldnt get access to any deliveries. He 
said hed told potential customers about the blocked access and removed the property from 
online booking systems. Mr M added that bookings are usually made close to the date of the 
stay and provided evidence from an online booking system which showed that for the same 
period in the previous year many stays were booked within a month of the date of the stay.  
 
Mr M thought his losses for the period between 15 February and 23 March were around 
£2,800. He confirmed that he wasnt claiming for losses beyond this date under this claim.  
 
In September 2020, Lloyds told us that it thought Mr Ms claim/complaint was impacted by 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test case so it couldnt 
provide any further information until that case had concluded.  
 
In September 2021, Lloyds said it was maintaining its decision in relation to Mr Ms claim. It 
also provided a social media post indicating that parking for the property was not at the 
premises. 
 
Lloyds said it had now paid Mr M £648 for his claim, which included 8% interest due to the 
delay in making payment. Lloyds also let us know that it had now paid a separate claim, up 
to the policy limit, for losses arising from Covid-19 and relating to the period after 23 March 
2020.  
 
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and recommended it be upheld. While he 
recognised that Lloyds could take a downturn in the business due to Covid-19 into account 
when reaching a settlement, he didnt think it was fair and reasonable, or in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, for Lloyds to only pay for cancelled bookings. He 
recommended Lloyds pay Mr M for losses based on his previous years takings, at a rate of 
100% for the period 15-29 February and at 50% for the period 1-23 March, plus interest at 
8%.  
 
Mr M accepted the investigators recommendation, but Lloyds didnt. Lloyds said it had 
already paid the policy limit for Mr Ms claim for losses caused by Covid-19. And while it 
used the date of 23 March as the start of the claim it could have taken account of losses 
from 4 March, due to the prevalence of Covid-19 in the area from that date.  
 
Lloyds said that, as parking had never been available at Mr Ms premises, access had 
always been hindered to some extent and it thought it had interpreted the cover fairly as it 
had paid Mr M for cancelled bookings caused by the collapsed wall. Lloyds said the 
previous years income couldnt be used to accurately determine the losses as that didnt 
take account of fluctuations in other conditions, such as the weather.  
 
As Lloyds didnt agree with our investigator, it asked for ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business interruption section of Mr Ms policy includes cover for interruption as a result 
of: 
DAMAGE to property in the vicinity of the PREMISES which prevents or hinders 
the use of or access to the PREMISES 
 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that property in the vicinity of Mr Ms premises was 
damaged. The loss adjusters report says that access was undoubtably hindered, so 
Im satisfied that there was damage to property in the vicinity of Mr Ms premises which 
hindered the use of or access to his premises.   
I dont think its relevant that parking wasnt previously available at the premises as I 
think guests would often want to drop off luggage or guests at the premises before 
parking their vehicle.  
 
Given that Mr Ms existing bookings cancelled when told about the access problems, I 
think it reasonable that he took the decision to close his premises rather than take 
bookings which would then likely cancel. So I think the losses covered by the policy are 
not just the cancelled bookings but also those bookings which would have occurred if 
not for the hindrance. 
 
Lloyds accepted Mr Ms claim, but I dont think the settlement it offered was fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.   
 
Under Basis of Settlement the policy says that Lloyds will indemnity the insured as 
follows: 
  
In respect of the reduction in GROSS INCOME the amount by which the GROSS 
INCOME during the INDEMNITY PERIOD falls short of the STANDARD GROSS 
INCOME due to the DAMAGE 
 
The words in bold capitals have specific meanings in the policy. They are: 
 
Gross income: 
 
the money paid or payable to the INSURED in the course of the BUSINESS less 
the net cost of consumable goods 
 
Standard gross income: 
 
the GROSS INCOME during that period in the twelve months immediately before 
the date of the DAMAGE which corresponds with the INDEMNITY PERIOD to 
which such adjustments will be made as necessary to take account of the trend of 
the BUSINESS and of the variations in or other circumstances affecting the 
BUSINESS either before or after the DAMAGE or which would have affected the 
BUSINESS had the DAMAGE not occurred so that the figures thus adjusted will 
represent as nearly as may be practicable the results which but for the DAMAGE 
would have been obtained during the relative period after the DAMAGE 
 
Indemnity period: 
 
the period beginning when the DAMAGE occurs and ending when the results of 
the BUSINESS cease to be affected by the DAMAGE but not later than 24 
months after such DAMAGE occurs 
  
I think this means Lloyds needed to consider the gross income of the business during 
the period in which access to the premises was hindered by the damage from the wall 
compared with the gross income of the business in the corresponding period within the 
last year prior to the hindrance. Given the seasonality of a guest house business, the 
same period in the previous year would be a reasonable starting point for the 
comparison. Lloyds could, however, take account of any trends in the business which 
might have affected it, if the damage to the wall hadnt occurred. 
 
Lloyds thinks that Covid-19 would have had a significant impact on Mr Ms bookings. 
Its impossible for me to know exactly how much Mr Ms business would have been impacted by Covid-19 between 15 February and 23 March, so Ive reached a decision 
based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
 
Before I set out my reasoning on these losses, I note that Lloyds said it could have 
considered Mr Ms losses from 4 March as being caused by Covid-19 rather than by 
the collapsed wall, due to the prevalence of Covid-19 in the area at the time. Lloyds 
said that, for this reason, its settlement to the maximum of its liability in Mr Ms separate 
claim for losses caused by Covid-19 should apply to the period starting 4 March. 
However, as Lloyds chose to consider this separate claim from 23 March - as M would 
have been closed anyway after that date due to Government Regulations - I think its 
fair and reasonable for me to consider losses caused by the damaged wall up to that 
date. 
 
I can see from a tourism website that accommodation occupancy in February 2020 was 
consistent with what it had been in February 2019. This indicates to me that there most 
likely wasnt a downturn in Mr Ms business during this period due to Covid-19. Im also 
persuaded by the information Mr M has sent that shows many bookings were made at 
short notice, so the accommodation not being booked isnt enough to demonstrate that 
it wouldnt have been booked if it had remained open. Therefore, I think its fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to pay Mr Ms loss of gross income at a rate of 100% for the 
period 15-29 February on the basis that the full prior year gross income for the same 
period provides a reasonable estimate for what Mr Ms gross income would have been 
in 2020 but for the collapsed wall. 
 
The website shows that there was a reduction in occupancy from 75% in March 2019 to 
37% in March 2020. The website doesnt break down the occupancy into weeks and I 
have to bear in mind that most accommodation would have closed towards the end of 
the month following the Government announcement on 24 March. I also think a lack of 
bookings due to Covid-19 would have become more likely as the month continued. For 
these reasons I do think there would have been a downturn in business in 2020 
compared with 2019, but Im not persuaded that there wouldnt have been any 
bookings between 1-23 March if Mr Ms premises had been open. Therefore, I think the 
fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lloyds to pay Mr Ms claim at a rate of 50% 
for the period 1-23 March, ie by applying a deduction of 50% to the gross income of the 
same period in 2019.  
 
In summary, I think the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint is for Lloyds to 
pay Mr Ms claim for a loss of gross income: 
from 15-29 February on the basis that his gross income would have been the same     
as it was in this period in 2019; and  
from 1-23 March with a 50% deduction applied to the gross income of this period in 
2019 to account for the downturn in business due to Covid-19.  
Lloyds may deduct from this total amount the £600 it has paid Mr M previously to settle 
the claim.  
 
As Mr M has been without money he should have had, Lloyds should pay interest at a 
rate of 8% simple per year on the additional settlement from the date it offered the 
original settlement amount of £600 to the date it makes payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to:Pay Mr Ms claim for a loss of gross income from 15-29 February 2020 on the basis          
that his gross income for that period would have been the same as in the same 
period in 2019.  
Pay Mr Ms claim for the period 1-23 March 2020 by applying a 50% deduction to the 
gross income in the same period in 2019 to account for the downturn in business due 
to Covid-19. 
Deduct from this total amount the £600 it has paid Mr M previously to settle the 
claim. 
Add interest to the additional settlement amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from 
the date Lloyds offered the original settlement amount of £600 to the date Lloyds 
makes payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman