DRN-4305411
The complaint
Mr C complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and their refusal to 
provide driving other cars (DOC) cover as part of the motor insurance policy he took out 
online.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr C took out a motor insurance policy online, which was underwritten 
by AIC. But when Mr C received his policy documents, he discovered the policy didnt 
include DOC cover, as he thought it would. So, he raised a complaint about this.
Mr C complained to an insurance intermediary, who Ill refer to as H, who administered the 
claim on AICs behalf. Mr C explained that, before purchasing the policy, hed spoken to H 
who had confirmed to him verbally that DOC cover would be included. So, he didnt think 
AIC were fair to now remove this cover or refuse to reinstate it after he made them aware of 
the issue.
H responded to Mr Cs complaint on behalf of AIC and didnt uphold it. As H responded on 
behalf of AIC, I will refer to any comments H made in response to the complaint as AIC.
AIC explained when a quote is generated, several risk factors are taken into account which 
can sometimes lead to an amendment in the level of cover provided. And in this case, they 
were satisfied that the DOC cover was removed correctly, in line with their internal 
processes and underwriting criteria. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Mr C remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained DOC isnt a 
standard benefit as part of a motor insurance policy. And they were satisfied DOC cover fell 
outside of AICs underwriting criteria, based on the information Mr C supplied for the quote 
he ended up purchasing. So, our investigator didnt think AIC needed to do anything more on 
this occasion.
Mr C didnt agree. And he explained at length why he was unhappy with the actions of H, 
and the advice he was given on the phone call he held with them before he purchased his 
insurance policy online. Our service explained Mr Cs concerns with H, and the service H 
provided, would need to be look at separately to AICs underwriting decision. Mr C accepted 
this but requested his complaint about AIC be escalated as he maintained his belief AICs 
decision to remove DOC cover from the quote he purchased was unreasonable, believing it 
to be discriminatory and anti-competitive. As Mr C remained unhappy, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to set out clearly 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Im aware there was some confusion about what 
elements of service AIC were responsible for that should be considered under this complaint 
reference. And I recognise the majority of Mr Cs concerns centre around the information 
given to him by H, and the service provided by H after the policy was set up.
But this decision focuses solely on the actions taken by AIC, in their role as the underwriter 
of the policy. So, it focuses on their decision, as the underwriter, not to provide DOC cover 
based on the information supplied to them in the policy quote Mr C eventually purchased. 
Any complaint Mr C has regarding the advice given to him by H, or the service they provided 
in their role as intermediary and administrator of the policy, will be considered by this service 
as a separate complaint entirely. And that complaint will not be negatively affected by the 
decision Ive reached here.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I dont doubt Mr C 
assumed, based on the conversation he had with H, that the policy he purchased would 
include DOC cover. So, when he discovered this wasnt the case, I can understand why hed 
consider the actions of AIC, as the underwriter of the policy, and feel as though they were 
unfair, considering the majority of the information included within the quote he submitted 
remained the same.
But for me to say AIC should do something differently, such as reinstate or add DOC cover 
to the policy Mr C took out, I first need to be satisfied AIC did something wrong. So, Id need 
to be satisfied their decision to not include DOC cover failed to fall in line with their internal 
underwriting criteria. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
AIC have provided me with their internal underwriting criteria. And having considered these 
criteria against the information Mr C supplied as part of the quote he ultimately purchased; 
Im satisfied Mr C didnt meet the relevant risk criteria for DOC to be offered. So, I dont think 
I can say AIC acted unfairly, or outside of the underwriting criteria they have in place.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr C Ive 
considered the comments hes made about AICs criteria, and why he feels they are 
discriminatory and anti-competitive. But it isnt the role of our service to comment upon, or 
recommend a change to, a business underwriting criteria. This is because underwriting 
criteria are deemed to be commercially sensitive and a part of a business internal business 
processes. And any investigation into these would fall under the remit of the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
So, all Ive been able to consider is AICs application of this criteria against the information 
Mr C supplied to ensure Mr C was treated fairly and the same as any other customer who 
provided the same information. And I think he has been on this occasion. So, while I 
appreciate Mr Cs unhappiness about the situation, I wont be asking AIC to do something 
differently.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman