DRN-3847773
The complaint
Mr W complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED reported incorrect information on his 
credit file about his loan.
What happened
Mr W says he repaid his OAKBROOK loan early in February 2021. He says he realised in 
2022 that OAKBROOK was still reporting his loan on his credit file as active with a nil 
balance. Mr W says that must have impacted on his ability to re-finance and take advantage 
of lower interest rates. He says the mistake caused distress and inconvenience and would 
like appropriate compensation.
OAKBROOK accepts it made a mistake and says it ought to have updated the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs). It says it didnt report any adverse information and has offered 
£100 compensation after initially offering £25.
Mr W had brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the initial compensation 
offer of £25 was appropriate. The investigator thought OAKBROOK was not reporting any 
adverse information to the CRAs but that the account balance was zero.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and in summary says he has evidence from a lender that a 
CRA has the account recorded as outstanding. He says he had to arrange for his credit file 
to be amended and says OAKBROOK should not treat customers like this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that OAKBROOKs compensation offer of 
£100 is fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no real doubt here that OAKBROOK made a mistake. It ought to have reported Mr 
Ws account to the CRAs as closed and settled rather than just as settled. I have no doubt 
Mr W was caused distress and concern in finding out his credit file was not accurate. And I 
accept he was also caused inconvenience in telling OAKBROOK about the mistake and in 
speaking to the CRAs.
The only real issue for me to consider is the compensation offer. I appreciate Mr W says he 
was unable to take advantage of potential lower interest rate offers for credit. But I cant fairly 
conclude on balance that was the case. Im satisfied that OAKBROOK didnt report adverse 
information on Mr Ws credit file such as late payments or missed payments but simply 
reported the account as open with a zero balance. I dont think that information would have 
had any real impact on a credit file and think that lenders are far more likely to look at other 
information when assessing credit applications such as the level of actual borrowing or 
payment history.
I have not seen any actual evidence of a credit application being directly affected by what 
OAKBROOK reported to the CRAs. And have made clear that I dont think the reported 
information would have had any impact on a credit application or the offered interest rate.
Overall, I cant fairly conclude Mr W suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place 
and cant conclude the impact had a significant impact on him. I accept Mr W was caused 
distress and inconvenience but am satisfied OAKBROOKs compensation offer of £100 is 
fair and reasonable and in line with the type of awards we would have made for this type of 
mistake and impact.
We are not OAKBROOKs regulator and its not our role to punish it for any mistake made 
and I can only consider Mr Ws complaint. I make that clear as I can see Mr W says it should 
not treat other customers in this way. I also make clear that whilst I have read Mr Ws e-mail 
to us about what a lender told him, I am satisfied that OAKBROOK reported the account as 
open but with a nil balance to the CRAs.
My final decision
My final decision is that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £100. Mr Ws acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman