DRN-4377230
The complaint
Mr K has complained that The Insurance Partnership Financial Services Limited (TIPFS) and 
AFH Independent Financial Advisers Limited (AFH) didnt provide him with the level of 
service that had been agreed  specifically there was a failure to provide pension reviews. 
TIPFS was acquired by the AFH Financial Group in 2020 by way of share purchase and 
liability for the period prior to acquisition falls to AFH. 
What happened
Mr K was advised by TIPFS in February 2017 in connection with transferring his Group 
Personal Pension to a personal pension with the same provider and increasing his pension 
contributions. TIPFS charged Mr K £750 and Mr K agreed to an ongoing fee of 0.5% pa. 
What that covered isnt agreed. But the suitability report said Mr K had selected a 
comprehensive service where [his] circumstances and financial objectives are reviewed at 
regular intervals. Mr K had no reviews between 2017 and January 2020. He did get two 
portfolio valuations in 2018 and 2020 and there were some email exchanges with TIPFS 
adviser about various topics. 
 
On 17 January 2020 TIPFS wrote to Mr K saying theyd become part of the AFH Financial 
Group. TIPFS would cease trading but Mr Ks existing adviser would remain working for 
AFH. The letter confirmed that Mr K s existing plans and ongoing charges would remain 
unchanged but novated to AFH. The letter said Mr K was currently on the Financial Planning 
Service and his plan had an ongoing adviser charge of 0.5% pa and his next review was 
now due. AFHs Client Agreement was enclosed.  
No review took place. Between January 2020 and August 2022 AFH sent Mr K two valuation 
reports, in January 2021 and June 2022. Mr K instructed two execution only lump sum 
pension contributions  £35,000 in August 2021 and £28,000 in May 2022. 
In May 2022 Mr K completed a review questionnaire which showed thered been several 
changes in his circumstances. Mr Ks first full review with AFH was completed in August 
2022. Following this review Mr K complained to AFH. He said AFH was receiving a 0.5% pa 
ongoing charge from his pension but he didnt think AFH had provided a service in return. He 
said hed previously requested a review but the adviser hadnt contacted him. And the 
adviser hadnt been available to assist with making a pension contribution so Mr K had to 
complete that himself on an execution only basis. 
In its response letter dated 10 November 2022 AFH said TIPFS letter of 17 January 2020 
confirmed that AFH would continue to provide the Financial Planning Service proposition 
offered by TIPFS and for the same 0.5% pa ongoing adviser fee. AFH referred to what the 
Client Agreement enclosed with that letter had said about what that service included. AFH 
accepted that, in some respects, the service Mr K had received since AFH had taken over 
had, in some respects, fallen short. Notably there was nothing to show that annual reviews 
had been undertaken by the adviser. AFH said other services had been available to Mr K  
including telephone and email access to an adviser and valuation reports were provided. Mr 
K had received responses from AFH and guidance in respect of queries hed raised. 
But AFH acknowledged that annual assessments of Mr Ks financial planning needs and his 
risk profile werent completed and he hadnt had a full financial review until 22 August 2022. 
AFH therefore upheld his complaint and offered to refund half of the adviser fees hed been 
charged since AFH had taken over TIPFS  in total £4,075.41 since January 2020. AFH 
therefore offered to refund £2,036. 
In April 2023 AFH wrote to Mr K having investigated the service hed received before 
January 2020. AFH didnt uphold that complaint. AFH referred to Mr K having signed TIPFS 
Client Agreement and Service Proposition document which set out the various service levels 
offered. AFH said its records showed Mr K had opted for the Financial Planning Service and 
it was agreed the ongoing charge for that would be 0.5% pa. That charge was referenced in 
the suitability report dated 10 March 2017 although it didnt specifically refer to the Financial 
Planning Service. Mr K signed a Financial Planning Fee Agreement confirming an ongoing 
adviser charge of 0.5% pa. 
AFH said the Client Agreement and Investment Service Proposition confirmed that the 
service consisted of access to the admin support team; telephone/email access to an 
adviser; and an annual valuation report. AFH said those services had been provided to Mr K. 
AFH offered Mr K £100 because they hadnt sent him a valuation in 2019. 
Mr K didnt accept either of AFHs offers.  He referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked first at the service Mr K had received before January 2020 from 
TIPFS. AFH had said Mr K had opted for the Financial Planning Service which meant he 
wasnt entitled to annual reviews. The levels of service offered by TIPFS were set out in the 
Client Fee Agreement and Investment Service Proposition signed by Mr K on 17 February 
2017. But the document doesnt specifically say which level of service Mr K had agreed to. 
The suitability report makes no reference to the Financial Planning Service that AFH said 
had been agreed. The report refers to the service level selected as comprehensive and 
says Mr K would receive ongoing reviews, so hed have expected to get them. Without 
ongoing reviews, the fee he was paying probably wouldnt have seemed good value. 
When AFH took over TIPFS, Mr K signed a new Client Agreement which included ongoing 
reviews. AFH didnt complete any ongoing reviews with Mr K between January 2020 and 
August 2022 and had therefore offered to refund half of the fees Mr K had paid over that 
period and on the basis he still had access to an adviser, had received valuations and two 
execution only transactions were completed.
Having reviewed the valuation reports, email exchanges and the documentation around the 
execution only transactions, the investigator didnt think AFH were proactive enough in how 
theyd dealt with Mr K. The interactions between Mr K and AFH meant it wouldve been very 
easy to offer him a review. Thered been two execution only transactions, in August 2021 
and May 2022. The investigator said hed expect, when a customer who is paying for 
ongoing advice wanted to top up their pension through their financial adviser, that the 
adviser would use that as an opportunity to offer advice, rather than just facilitating the 
contributions on an execution only basis. 
Mr K wouldve expected to receive reviews between March 2017 and August 2022. The 
investigator accepted that other services were available to Mr K  hed received valuation 
reports and he had access to an adviser.
But the investigator didnt think what AFH had offered was fair. Mr Ks dealings with the 
adviser before January 2020 were very limited. The valuations he was sent were generic 
and wouldnt have taken any time to produce. Mr K wouldve been receiving statements from Scottish Widows so the valuations from AFH wouldve been of limited value. After January 
2020 the interaction between Mr K and AFH increased but AFH missed many opportunities 
to offer Mr K the level of service he was paying for. The questionnaire Mr K completed in 
May 2022 showed there were numerous areas he wanted help with if he was to be able to 
achieve his objective of retiring early. AFH shouldve identified those areas of concern and 
addressed them sooner so that Mr K could be confident he was going to achieve his goals.
The investigator set out what AFH needed to do to put things right for Mr K. He said it would 
be fair for AFH to refund three quarters of the ongoing fees Mr K had paid from the date his 
new pension was set up to the date of his first review with AFH. 
AFH hasnt responded to the investigators view, despite several reminders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont have much to add to what the investigator has said and which Ive 
recapped above. I agree with the investigator and for the reasons he set out that AFHs 
offers werent fair and reasonable. 
Ive looked first at what was agreed between Mr K and TIPFS. AFH says Mr K opted for 
TIPFS Financial Planning Service. Ive seen that Mr K signed TIPFS Client Fee Agreement 
and Investment Service Proposition. It sets out four service levels, one of which was 
Financial Planning, and whats included in each. The Financial Planning Service only covers 
the three areas AFH has cited. But whats not clear from the document is what service 
proposition Mr K had discussed with the adviser and agreed was the most suitable to cover 
his needs. 
Ive looked at what other evidence there is to show what was agreed as to what the 0.5% pa 
charge for ongoing service would cover. Like the investigator, Ive placed weight on what the 
suitability report recorded. Its an important document and contemporaneous written 
evidence. In my view, its likely to accurately record what was agreed at the time. 
The section headed Service Proposition and Reviews refers to the importance of regular 
reviews and to Mr K having selected a comprehensive service where your circumstances 
and financial arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals. The next part doesnt seem to 
have been completed fully. It shouldve set out the frequency of the reviews and the charges. 
But theres no dispute that Mr K agreed to an ongoing charge of 0.5% pa. I dont think a 
comprehensive service is consistent with Mr K only having agreed to the Financial Planning 
Service which, of TIPFS three main service propositions, was the most basic. I agree that 
Mr K is unlikely to have regarded a 0.5% pa charge as good value if regular reviews werent 
included. I think Mr Ks agreement with TIPFS included on going and at least annual 
reviews.  
I also note what TIPFS said in the letter dated 17 January 2020  that Mr Ks arrangements 
would continue as previously. Thats consistent with the enclosed Client Agreement which 
said, under On-going Legacy Services, that Mr Ks charges would remain unchanged to 
those previously agreed and hed continue to receive a service which was commensurate to 
the existing TIPFS proposition. Its clear from the AFH Client Agreement which was enclosed 
that, going forwards, Mr K would be entitled to annual reviews. If, as AFH says, Mr Ks 
existing service agreement hadnt included those, that wouldve been a departure from what 
AFH said was happening to clients previously with TIPFS. If AFH was offering something 
more, Id have thought AFH wouldve been keen to point out that Mr Ks position would be improved. AFH also referred to Mr K being on the Financial Planning Service and said his 
next review was now due. That seems to suggest Mr K had been receiving on going 
reviews.
After AFH took over, Mr Ks ongoing advice fee remained 0.5% pa and theres no dispute 
that reviews were included. But, although TIPFS noted, in the letter of 17 January 2020, that 
a review was due, that didnt happen until May 2022. Once AFH knew that a review was 
due, AFH shouldve followed that up and offered Mr K one. I also agree with the investigator 
that opportunities to offer a review did arise but werent taken up by AFH. 
AFH acknowledges there were service failings and thats reflected in the fact that it made 
offers to Mr K. But, like the investigator, I dont think what was offered was fair and 
reasonable. I think the facility to have his pension reviewed regularly wouldve been 
important to Mr K. Although some of the other services were available to Mr K and he may 
have accessed them, AFH failed to deliver on what I think was a fundamental part of its 
agreement with Mr K. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr K as close as possible to 
the position hed now be in if hed been charged an ongoing advice fee commensurate with 
the level of service he actually received. I agree with the redress proposed by the 
investigator. Ive adopted it and set it out again. 
I think its fair and reasonable that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited refund Mr K 
three quarters of the ongoing fees he paid from the date his new pension was set up until the 
date of his first review with AFH Independent Financial Services Limited. What Ive set out 
below is aimed at restoring Mr Ks pension fund to what it wouldve been if the lower level of 
charges had been deducted. 
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited must: 
Calculate each ongoing fee deduction taken from Mr Ks pension from the inception 
of his pension to the date of his first ongoing review. Each individual deducted fee 
should have the notional investment growth of Mr Ks pension applied from the date 
each ongoing individual fee was deducted from the pension until the date of Mr Ks 
first ongoing review. Each individual amount should then be totalled and reduced by 
25%. This amount can then be added to the value of Mr Ks pension as at the date of 
Mr Ks first ongoing review. This amount is the fair value.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If theres a loss it should be paid into Mr Ks pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. It shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If compensation cant be paid into Mr Ks pension plan, it should be paid direct to 
him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr K wont be 
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Hes told us that hes a higher 
taxpayer so the reduction would equal 40%. But if hed have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 30%.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFH Independent Financial 
Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, AFH Independent Financial Services Limited should tell 
Mr K how much has been taken off and give him a tax deduction certificate in respect 
of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Redress should be paid to Mr K within 28 days of notification to AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited that Mr K has accepted my final decision. If redress (or 
any part of it) isnt paid within that period then interest at 8% simple pa should be 
added from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.  
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the date of Mr Ks first
ongoing review.
Fair value
This is what the pension would have been worth had only 25% of the ongoing fees been
taken from Mr Ks pension as detailed above. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. AFH Independent Financial Services Limited must redress Mr K as 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman