DRN-4023628
The complaint
Miss M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim following the 
theft of her car, under her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss M says she drove her car, with her brother as a passenger, to his friends house to 
deliver an air conditioning unit due to the hot weather. She says she went to see a friend and 
agreed with her brother that he would wait in the car for her until she returned. Miss M says 
she had no bag to hold her keys in so gave them to her brother for safe keeping.  
Miss M says her brother returned to her car, with his friend, to wait for her. As it was hot, she 
says her brother turned on the air conditioning. When doing this she says he had to turn on 
the engine to prevent battery failure. A few seconds later three men in balaclavas with large 
knives surrounded the car. They physically assaulted her brother and his friend, took the 
key, and drove the car away. 
Miss M says her brother called the police immediately. He then called her to tell her what 
happened. Miss M says he advised her to get a lift home from her friend, which she did. She 
says her brother was dropped off at the same address after he gave his statement to the 
police. Miss M says she contacted Admiral the next day to make a claim. However, after 
three months it declined the claim saying she hadnt protected her vehicle from loss or 
damage. Miss M said shed done nothing wrong. Her car was secure with her brother inside 
and neither he nor his friend couldve prevented the theft. 
In its decline letter Admiral refers to its policy exclusions. It says Miss M has a duty to protect 
her vehicle from loss or damage. Also, that a loss wont be covered if her vehicle is used by 
a person, or for any purpose, not shown on her motor insurance certificate. Admiral says 
Miss Ms brother is not a named driver. He was in possession of her keys and started the 
engine. It says had he not been in possession of the keys and not in the vehicle this incident 
wouldnt have happened.     
Miss M thought this was unfair and referred her complaint to our service in December 2022. 
Admiral hadnt issued its final response by this time. But as Miss M made her complaint at 
the beginning of October, Admiral had already had the eight weeks its allowed to provide a 
response. Our investigator explained she would consider what had happened up to 23 
November 2022, which is when Admiral provided Miss M with referral rights to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. She says her brother isnt insured on her 
policy and was sat in the car with the engine running when it was stolen. She thought 
Admiral had acted fairly when relying on its policy exclusions to decline the claim. 
Miss M disagreed. She says her brother didnt drive the car and its not uncommon for a 
passenger to be left in a vehicle. She thought our investigators outcome was unfair and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its for the policy holder to show they suffered an insured loss (fire, theft etc.). If they can do 
so then, generally speaking, an insurer should pay the claim. This is unless it can reasonably 
rely on a policy exclusion not to. 
Admiral refers to two policy terms in its decline letter to support its decision. Under General 
Conditions it highlights section three, Care of your vehicle that says:
You and any other insured person must: protect your vehicle from loss or damage. 
Under General Exceptions it highlights:
We will not pay for any loss, damage or liability directly or indirectly caused or contributed to 
by: 
1. Your vehicle being: 
a. used by a person or for any purpose not shown on your current Certificate of Motor 
Insurance  
In its decline letter Admiral says Miss M has breached her policy conditions, with reference 
to these terms, which means its unable to provide cover for this incident and will now cancel 
cover for her car. 
I asked Admiral for a copy of the police report it received following the incident, which it has 
provided. This was redacted to remove information that can identify a third party or that the 
police say Admiral wasnt entitled to. The information contained in the police report is fairly 
limited. But it does state Miss Ms brother was sitting in the drivers seat when the robbery 
happened. It says this occurred around ten seconds after he had started the engine. It 
describes the robber pulling out a knife and assaulting Miss Ms brother. It says the robber 
made Miss Ms brother leave his phone and the car key in the vehicle.
The police report states Miss M wasnt at the scene when the robbery took place. It says she 
had dropped her brother at this location and had popped out. The car was stolen after this. 
Shortly after our investigator issued her findings, Admiral sent its final response to Miss Ms 
complaint. It says this was delayed whilst it awaited the police report from the theft incident. 
We asked Admiral if it objected to our service considering the full complaint up to the final 
response. It didnt. My decision will therefore consider the full period of the complaint up to 
date of Admirals final response in February 2023.  
In its final response Admiral says it maintains its decline decision from October 2022. It also 
says:
Furthermore, I do not believe you have been honest with us about the use of the vehicle 
that evening. I would like to draw your attention to General Condition 9 of your policy. We 
have been given many different versions of events surrounding the movement of you and 
your brother before the incident and how your brother came to be in the car with the engine running. Because every version of events differs, we have to believe you have not been 
honest and your brother was simply using the vehicle that evening. As such, I am unable to 
uphold your complaint. 
General Condition nine from the policy terms says:
9. Fraud and misrepresentation 
You must always answer our questions honestly and provide true and accurate information. 
If you, any other insured person or anyone acting on your behalf: 
provides us with false, exaggerated or misrepresented information; 
submits false, altered, forged or stolen documents. 
We will take one or more of the following actions:
refuse to pay your claim or only pay part of your claim;
cancel your policy, under certain circumstances this may be with immediate effect.
Admiral says it has highlighted a number of discrepancies with the statements provided by 
Miss M, her brother, and his friend. In the statement below, Ive used B to signify Miss Ms 
brother, F for his friend, and N for her friend who is also Fs sister:
Discrepancies/concerns
F and B both agree they went to the car to get the air con - they then carried it straight up [to 
Fs house] where they stayed for 15 mins (during this time Miss M says she had left with N) 
so how did her brother get the keys  Miss M claims she gave them to him but he went 
straight up with F and F says he didn't see Miss M. 
F claims they both went in the police van to follow Bs tracking and when they found it
the police took it - he assumed for forensics - however Miss M adv her brother called from 
his mobile at 11pm. How could this be if the thieves/police had the phone. B mentioned 
nothing about going in the van - he just says they went into Fs house.
B says the keys were in his pocket as it had keyless ignition however Miss M adv the key 
has to go in the ignition for it to work. F said the attacker next to B showed them a knife 
tucked in his belt but didn't pull it out - this is different to Bs account - he advised he pulled 
out a big knife. B makes no mention at all of the phone being stolen.
Ive listened to the call recordings provided by Admiral when Miss M and subsequently her 
brother described the events leading up to the theft of the car. Ive also considered the 
statements obtained by Admirals investigator and the redacted report provided by the 
police. I acknowledge what Admiral says about some discrepancies with the accounts 
provided. I understand it has some concerns about this and whether Miss M and her brother 
gave honest accounts of what happened. 
Having considered this, and based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that there are 
significant discrepancies in the accounts provided indicating a breach of general condition 
nine from Miss Ms policy terms. In the call recordings Ive listened to Miss M refers to 
receiving a call from her brother. She doesnt specify it was from his phone. Similarly, Miss 
M in the statement she gave to Admirals investigator, says she went into the house to meet 
her friend. This isnt contradicted by the statement her brother gave about her whereabouts.   That said the decline decision Admiral sent in October 2022 set out the reason Miss Ms loss 
wasnt being covered. It says her vehicle was being used by someone who isnt named on 
her certificate of motor insurance. It says this is directly at odds with the policy terms and 
that it was her brother that was in possession of the keys and had started the vehicle when 
the theft happened. 
Miss Ms policy terms state that no loss is covered where her vehicle is being used by a 
person not shown on her certificate of motor insurance. 
Im inclined to agree with Admiral on this point. Miss M allowed someone who isnt insured 
on her policy to use her car. She provided her brother with the car keys, and he proceeded 
to sit in the drivers seat, with his friend, with the engine turned on. I dont think Admirals 
view is unreasonable that in these circumstances the terms of its policy havent been 
followed. Had Miss Ms brother not been sat in the car, in possession of the keys the loss 
wouldnt have occurred.      
Im sorry that Miss M has suffered a loss. This must have been a very upsetting incident for 
both her and her brother. But I dont think Admiral treated her unfairly when relying on its 
policy terms to decline her claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman