DRN-3962377
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice Sovereign Private Clients Limited (Sovereign) gave to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr C to bring this complaint. But for ease of 
reading I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Cs.
What happened
We made several requests for information to Sovereign. But he didnt reply to those. So the 
events set out below are summarised from the evidence Mr C provided.
Mr C was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In September 2016 he 
met with Sovereign to discuss his pension provision. Sovereign gathered information about 
Mr Cs DB scheme entitlements. It conducted a fact find with him and assessed his attitude 
to risk. It also commissioned a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). Amongst other things 
Sovereign noted that Mr C was aged 54, in good health, married with three dependent 
children. He was self-employed earning around £2,800 a month net and had regular 
outgoings of around £2,500. So he had a disposable income each month of £300. He 
intended to keep working until at least age 67. He had £2,000 in savings. He lived in rented 
accommodation. He had an outstanding car loan of around £12,000. Mr Cs DB scheme had 
a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £406,000. It would pay him a full 
pension at age 65 of £23,738 a year. 
Sovereign initially assessed Mr Cs attitude to risk as seven out of ten, with one being low 
and ten being high risk. But after discussing that with Mr C it reduced that risk rating to four 
out of ten, which it referred to as lowest medium. 
At some point after the meeting Sovereign sent Mr C a Financial Planning Report setting out 
its advice (the copy I've seen isn't dated). Such documents are usually known in the industry 
as suitability reports, so thats the term I will adopt in this decision. The suitability report 
noted that Mr C wanted to transfer his DB pension funds to allow him to take tax free cash 
(TFC) of £25,000 at age 55. He could then use that money to pay off his car loan of 
£12,000 and spend the rest on a family holiday. 
The suitability report noted that the growth rates required, the critical yields, to match the 
benefits from the DB scheme at age 65 were 8.4% if Mr C took a full pension and 7.64% if 
he took TFC of £116,843 and a reduced pension of £17,526 a year The report said:
in the current economic climate, it will not be possible to achieve greater pension benefits at 
retirement by transferring however you will have greater flexibility with your funds and you 
will be able to leave lump sum death benefits to your wife following your death as such 
transferring your pension is still suitable for you
The report recommended that Mr C should:
Transfer his DB scheme funds to a named personal pension.
Draw £25,000 from his TFC entitlement.
Sovereign said that the named personal pension provider would charge Mr C 1% of the fund 
value each year. Sovereign would charge Mr C £13,235 for its initial advice and 0.8% of his 
fund value for its ongoing advice service.
Mr C accepted Sovereigns recommendation and the named provider set up his personal 
pension in October 2016.
Mr C complained to Sovereign in March 2022. In short he said Sovereigns advice to transfer 
out of his DB scheme wasnt suitable for him. Sovereign didnt reply.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She recommended 
that we should uphold the complaint and that Sovereign should pay Mr C compensation. She 
said that was because its advice wasnt suitable or in Mr Cs best interests.
Sovereign didnt reply so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr C has made a number of detailed points. But in this decision I 
dont intend to address each and every issue. Instead I will focus on the matters at the heart 
of Mr Cs complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Sovereign's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Sovereign 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Cs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Sovereign arranged for a TVAS (as required by the regulator). We haven't been given a 
copy of that report, but Sovereign referred to some of the key findings from it in its suitability 
report. In particular it referred to how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each 
year in order to match the benefits from his DB scheme (the critical yield).
Sovereign gave its advice during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount rates' 
on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers. But I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would 
have been considered reasonably achievable at the time Sovereign gave its advice. 
Mr C was 54 and soon to turn 55 at the time. The schemes normal retirement age was 65 
although Mr C said he wanted to keep working until at least 67. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Cs DB scheme benefits at age 65 was 8.4% if he took a full pension and 7.64% if 
he took TFC and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 3.8% per year 
for 10 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's investment growth projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 7.64%, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
Also Mr Cs personal pension fund would be further depleted by both the named pension 
providers and Sovereigns ongoing charges. And without factoring in Sovereigns initial 
advice charge, those ongoing charges would reduce any growth in the pension fund by 1.8% 
a year. So, even if Mr Cs personal pension managed to grow at 5% a year, which is what he 
might be able to achieve given a moderate attitude to risk, that growth rate would be reduced 
significantly by the effects of charges, and that's without factoring in inflation which would 
further reduce the relative spending power of Mr Cs fund. In contrast Mr C wouldnt have to 
pay any fees to remain invested in his DB scheme. And his pension entitlement would 
increase each year in line with the relevant indexation, to protect it from the effects of 
inflation. So, as Mr C was likely to be worse off in retirement by transferring, doing so wasnt in his 
best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Sovereign itself acknowledged that it was unlikely that Mr C 
could match the benefits from his DB scheme by transferring the funds to a personal 
pension. In those circumstances its all the more important that the other reasons for 
transferring were sufficiently compelling. Ive considered this below. 
TFC and Flexibility 
Sovereign said that by taking £25,000 TFC immediately Mr C could pay off his car loan, 
which would allow him to be debt free and to release some more income each month. I can 
understand why the prospect of being debt free would have sounded like an attractive 
feature to Mr C. But Sovereign hasn't established in its fact-find or suitability report why 
paying off Mr Cs only loan was so important to him that it was worth giving up the 
guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme for. 
Sovereign had carried out an assessment of Mr Cs spending, although it hasnt recorded (in 
the papers I've seen) how much Mr Cs loan repayments were each month or when he was 
due to pay the loan off. But theres no evidence he was struggling to meet the repayments. 
Instead the fact-find showed that Mr C had a disposable income of £300 each month, which 
was slightly more than 10% of his net income. And I can't see that Sovereign explored with 
Mr C why he felt he needed to give up the benefits from his DB scheme in order to pay a 
loan when he was meeting his financial obligations with some funds left over. 
So, while it seems that Mr C was considering the advantages of paying off this loan early, 
there's no evidence that he was in any way desperate to do so. In other words paying off the 
loan might have been something that would be nice to achieve, but theres nothing to 
suggest it was essential for him. It follows that while having flexible access to his TFC might 
have been desirable to Mr C, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his TFC and pay 
off the loan at that time. This is because Mr C seemed to be managing his finances 
reasonably well with a disposable income left over each month. And I've seen no evidence 
that he absolutely needed to pay off his loan at that time.
Similarly, Sovereign said Mr C could use the £13,000 balance of his £25,000 TFC 
withdrawal to take his family on the holiday of a lifetime. I can see why the option of 
accessing a large sum of money to spend on a holiday would be a mouthwatering prospect 
for most people. But that doesn't mean it was in Mr Cs best interests. Its also worth noting 
that Mr C had limited savings and no investment experience. And, at most, he had a medium 
attitude to risk. So transferring his guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme to a personal 
pension which had the potential for losses, in order to fund a one-off holiday, clearly wasnt 
in his best interests. Thats because taking that option meant  almost certainly  reducing 
his income security in retirement. 
I think its also worth repeating Sovereigns acknowledgment that Mr C wouldnt be able to 
match his DB scheme benefits by transferring. In other words Sovereign was aware that 
Mr C was almost certainly making himself worse off in retirement by doing so. It justified this 
because transferring gave him the opportunity to pay off a £12,000 loan and spend £13,000 
on a holiday. But, in order to achieve that Sovereign was charging Mr C a figure higher than 
both of those sums of around £13,235. In other words, in order to have access to TFC of 
£25,000 Mr C would have to pay sovereign an amount equivalent to around 53% of the sum 
it was advising him to take. And Sovereign's fee would be deducted from Mr Cs pension 
fund further reducing his income in retirement. That seems to be an enormous price to pay 
for the ability to access funds flexibly when Mr C had no real need for flexibility at that time.Further, if Mr C had been insistent that he wished to pay off his loan and go on a holiday, he 
could have accessed TFC from his DB scheme. It is the case that Mr C couldnt have taken 
the TFC without also taking an income. But the file shows that, at age 55 Mr C could have 
taken TFC from his DB fund of £61,232. The DB scheme would also have paid him a 
reduced yearly pension at that time of £9,184. Had Mr C taken that option that would have 
preserved some of the benefits from his DB scheme, although that would have been at a 
considerably reduced sum, but still allowed him access to other benefits. One such benefit 
would have been a risk free, annual income that he would receive from age 55 until he died. 
That pension would have increased each year in line with the schemes relevant indexation. 
So he could have comfortably afforded to repay his loan, pay for a holiday and still have an 
additional income for the rest of his life. But it doesn't appear that Sovereign explained the 
benefits of that option to him.
Sovereigns role should have been to advise Mr C on what was in his best interests, not 
simply to arrange what he thought he wanted at that moment in time without carefully 
examining what his needs, rather than simply his desires, were. And accessing funds flexibly 
meant that Mr C was giving up guaranteed benefits in retirement in exchange for a lump sum 
he had no real need for. But I can't see that Sovereign explored with him why he was 
prepared to give up such valuable benefits in the long-term for a shorter term gain.
So, while I can see that the potential for paying off a significant debt at age 55 and paying for 
a holiday of a lifetime would have been appealing for Mr C, that doesn't mean it was in his 
best interests. And this is something that Sovereign should have brought to his attention. But 
it didnt do so.
Death benefits 
Sovereign recorded that Mr C said he would like any remaining pension to pass to his wife 
and family on his death. It said that wasnt something Mr C could achieve by remaining in his 
DB scheme. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. Thats because whatever 
was left within Mr Cs personal pension at the date of his death would be passed on to his 
family. And, if that happened before his retirement or soon after, then that would likely be a 
significant sum.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provision. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr C was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his family that they may not need for many years to come.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married and his wife would receive 50% of his pension on his death. And, in the 
unfortunate event he died while his children were still in education, the DB scheme would 
pay a benefit for his children. But I dont think Sovereign made the value of these death 
benefits clear enough to Mr C when compared to those available from the personal pension. 
They were guaranteed and escalated. Further, they were not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.Given the size of the CETV I can understand that Mr C might have thought that guaranteed 
a significant lump sum for his family on his death. But, the available fund was reliant on a 
number of factors, including investment growth, and a period of poor performance could 
reduce the sum available as a death benefit. Further, the fund would reduce as Mr C drew 
down money from it. So if he took withdrawals such as TFC or other sums from his personal 
pension in the early years of his retirement then that could significantly reduce the amounts 
available to live off, let alone to leave as a legacy for his family on his death.
If Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns, I think Sovereign could have explored life insurance with him. I understand that such 
cover can be expensive. But if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave provision for his family, but 
didnt want to pay a significant premium, then Sovereigns starting point ought to have been 
to ask Mr C how much he would ideally like to leave to his family. It could then have looked 
into cover for that sum. And to my mind, the fact that life insurance wasnt explored further 
suggests to me that greater death benefits wasnt a genuine objective for Mr C. Instead, it 
was simply a consequence of transferring his pension.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C.
Summary
I dont doubt that access to a large lump sum of cash and potential for higher death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. 
But, as I've said above, Sovereign wasnt there to just transact what Mr C said he wanted . 
The advisers role was to really understand what he needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Sovereign was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr C 
about what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots 
like Mr Cs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But the 
path Sovereign recommended to Mr C involved giving up that income in retirement for the 
chance of getting hold of a large lump sum of cash, for which he had no obvious need, rather 
than long-term planning.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Sovereign gave to Mr C was suitable. By transferring to a 
personal pension Mr C was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests to transfer his DB scheme funds to a 
personal pension and Sovereign shouldnt have advised him to do that. 
It follows that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Sovereign to put Mr C, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for Sovereigns unsuitable advice. I 
consider Mr C would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if Sovereign had given 
suitable advice. So I've set out below the steps it needs to take now. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA published a policy statement on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules 
and guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the 
new guidance to come into effect.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C.
For clarity, although I understand Mr C has drawn down some funds from his pension, he 
has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should be based 
on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Sovereign may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Sovereign to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, Sovereign should pay the compensation if 
possible into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
Sovereign should pay it directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Sovereign receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further Sovereign must add interest to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Sovereign to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In those 
circumstances, any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply.
Sovereign should provide details of its calculations to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Sovereign Private 
Clients Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I would additionally require 
Sovereign Private Clients Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I would only require 
Sovereign Private Clients Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Sovereign Private Clients Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Sovereign Private 
Clients Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman