DRN-4072512
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the quality of a car he acquired using finance provided by Tesla 
Financial Services Limited.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr J took out finance for a brand new Tesla, and paid a deposit of 
£19,307. Soon afterwards, he reported a fault, as there was a noise coming from the front. 
Tesla removed some debris, but the fault persisted, and Mr J asked to reject the car. 
However, Tesla carried out a further repair, to the condenser fan. As Mr J then took back the 
car, Tesla says he accepted the repair, so has lost his right, under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, to reject the car within the first 30 days.
Mr J, on the other hand, says he never accepted the car as repaired, and that the issue 
remains. Hes also said there are other problems with the car. Accordingly, hed like to reject 
it, and receive a refund.
One of our investigators looked into what happened, and was satisfied that Mr J should be 
allowed to reject the car and receive his deposit back. He also thought he should be paid 
£200 compensation.
Tesla disagreed. It said that:
any defects that arose within the first 30 days were repaired to Mr Js satisfaction, so 
he no longer has the right to reject;
its had further reports from Mr J of a number of minor issues, but none of these are 
related to the original issue with the condenser fan; and
it thinks that the noises Mr J can hear are due to the car being electric, so theres no 
engine to mask other road and mechanical noises. So, the noises dont point to a 
defect.
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that there was a fault when the car was supplied. This was with the 
condenser fan. Whats in dispute, is whether Mr J accepted the repair, after he asserted his 
right to reject the car within 30 days.
Taking all of the circumstances into account, I dont this the complaint turns on this. I think 
that Tesla should have accepted Mr Js request to reject the car. And the fact he picked up 
the car, simply points to him needing use of a car. However, even if it were the case that he 
lost his right of rejection within 30 days, Im still satisfied that he should now be able to return 
the car, on the basis it wasnt  and is still not - of satisfactory quality.
Within only a matter of weeks, Mr J has had the issue with the condenser fan. He says the 
issue remains. Tesla has speculated that any noise may be because its an electric car. This 
seems to me to be somewhat unlikely, given Mr J is reporting the same noises as before. 
So, it is quite possible the repairs failed. But in any event, there have been a number of 
further issues. Although Tesla may consider these to be minor, they have a cumulative 
effect, particularly when the car is brand new.
Given the number of issues Mr J has experienced, and continues to experience, so soon 
after acquiring a brand new car, Im satisfied that he should be allowed to reject it. Im also 
satisfied that Tesla refusing him this option has caused him distress and inconvenience, and 
I think £200 compensation is fair to reflect this. I dont think he should be refunded any 
monthly repayments, as hes always had use of the car (save for a three day period when he 
was provided with another). I accept the issues impaired his use somewhat, but I think the 
£200 compensation is sufficient to take this into account. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Tesla should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car (if this has not been done already), at no cost to Mr J;
refund Mr Js deposit/part exchange contribution of £19,307, adding 8% simple 
interest a year, from the date of the payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr J £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused; and
remove any negative information regarding this agreement from Mr Js credit file.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Tesla Financial Services Limited to 
take the actions set out above, in the section entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman