DRN-3372902
The complaint
Mr A complains that esure Insurance Limited has undervalued his car when he
claimed on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As car was deemed a total loss when he claimed on his policy so esure offered him the 
market value to settle his claim. Mr A didnt think esure had taken into account the rarity of 
his car and complained as he wasnt happy with the market value offered. 
esure reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had used the recognised guides 
to value his car and made a fair and reasonable deduction for the pre-existing damage. 
Esure offered Mr A £4,925 as the market value and then deducted £625 for the pre-existing 
damage. Mr A disagreed, he said hed found an advert of a similar car for £7,000, as Mr A 
didnt agree with esures valuation he brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He
found that esure had offered a figure which was in the range of the valuation guides. He also 
found the pre-existing damage would cost over £2,000 to repair so thought esure had been 
fair and reasonable to deduct £625. Our investigator considered the advert provided by Mr A 
but said he found the guides more persuasive as all four guides had been able to value Mr 
A's car. Mr A disagreed, he said his car was a rare model and the guides hadnt taken that 
into account. 
As Mr A disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say that if esure deem his car a
total loss, it will pay him the market value. It defines market value as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to 
sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or 
loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and 
model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or 
loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including: 
Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
When looking at four trade guides theyve given values of £5,410, £5,082, £4,660, £4,549.
I can see esure has offered £4,925 which is within the range of the four guides used. Im 
therefore satisfied esure has acted fairly and reasonably by valuing Mr As car in this way. 
Ive also looked at whether it was fair and reasonable for esure to deduct the pre-existing 
damage from the settlement. esure has shown it would cost over £2,000 to repair the pre-
existing damage to Mr As car, as only£625 has been deducted Im satisfied esure has acted 
fairly and reasonably by deducting this amount as its less than 50% of the cost of fixing the 
pre-existing damage. 
Mr A has also provided an advert for a similar car to his which was showing it as being 
advertised for £7,000. Ive considered this and Mr As point that his car was rare due to the 
specification. While I can see a similar car was advertised for more than the guides, I can 
also see the mileage was lower than on Mr As car, so Im not persuaded it is a like for like. 
And even if it was like for like it wouldnt persuade me to say esure needs to pay any more. I 
say this because esure has valued Mr As car in line with the valuation guides, and these 
have all been able to value Mr As car. So Im not persuaded that one advert is enough to 
show Mr As car is rare or that it would be fair and reasonable to deviate from the guides. 
I understand this will be disappointing to Mr A but Im not going to tell esure to pay more than 
it has for his car. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman