DRN-4457174
Complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement 
were unaffordable. 
Background
In November 2020, Moneybarn provided Mr B with finance for a used car. The purchase 
price of the vehicle was £11,950.00. Mr B didnt pay a deposit and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the entire £11,950.00. The loan had interest and charges of 
£10,178.54 and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£22,128.54 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £375.02.
Mr B complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Bs 
complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Bs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr B provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr B which had shown Mr B had no 
significant adverse information such as defaults on credit or county court judgments (CCJ) 
taken out against him. 
Nonetheless, in Moneybarns view, when the amount Mr B already owed plus a reasonable 
amount for Mr Bs living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly 
payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr B says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr B and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Bs living costs given the amount of the monthly payment as well as the total 
cost of the loan. And I think that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Bs 
actual regular living costs. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Bs 
actual living costs would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this 
instance. 
I say this because what Mr B has told us about his finances at the time appears to show that 
when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted 
from his monthly income (i.e. those which showed on the credit check that was carried out), 
he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under 
this agreement. 
Mr B says that he had another car finance agreement and other credit comments at the time 
but this didnt show up on the credit search that Moneybarn carried out. Furthermore, having 
looked at copies of the bank statements Mr B has provided, I cant see some of the 
payments he said he was making either.
I accept its possible that Mr Bs actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. But overall and having carefully considered 
everything, while Im not persuaded that Moneybarns checks before entering into this 
conditional sale agreement with Mr B did go far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out 
reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped Moneybarn from providing these 
funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr B. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
continue exercising forbearance and due consideration in the event that it intends to collect 
the remaining payments on the agreement and Mr B is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman