DRN-1388186
 
The complaint
Miss S complained about an instalment loan she took out with Uncle Buck Finance 
LLP and said this was unaffordable for her. 
What happened
Miss S took out an Uncle Buck loan for £625 in January 2019 which she was due to repay in 
six instalments. The loan hasnt yet been paid.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss S and Uncle Buck told us about this loan. Our 
adjudicator thought it was fair, given this was Miss Ss first Uncle Buck loan application, that 
at this stage in her borrowing Uncle Buck relied on the information Miss S provided. Taking 
into account the loan amount, what Miss S had told Uncle Buck about her circumstances at 
the time and her history with the lender, he didnt think Uncle Buck lent irresponsibly to 
Miss S. So he didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Miss S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Miss S mainly says that Uncle Buck didnt do thorough checks and so it gave her a loan 
which was unaffordable for her which led to her taking out another payday loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Uncle Buck provided Miss S with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss S could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint. 
Before lending to Miss S, Uncle Buck asked her for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and her outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out credit checks. Uncle Buck says it agreed to Miss Ss application after carrying out all the proper checks. 
And it relied on information Miss S provided about her monthly income and expenditure as 
well as information obtained from a credit reference agency. It says the information it 
recorded for Miss S showed that shed be able to comfortably make the loan repayments. 
And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
This was her first loan with Uncle Buck. So I think Uncle Buck could reasonably rely on 
information Miss S provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan 
term, and taking into account the information it seems Miss S told Uncle Buck about her 
monthly income and what she was paying out, this repayment amount looked comfortably 
affordable for Miss S. And I havent seen anything in the information that Uncle Buck 
gathered about Miss S that makes me think it shouldve realised that Miss S was going to 
find it difficult to afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way. 
Im sorry that Miss S had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments shed 
signed up to was difficult for her. I accept that in reality Miss Ss actual circumstances 
possibly werent fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information 
Uncle Buck obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Uncle Buck couldve only decided Miss Ss lending 
application based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the 
lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Uncle Buck to ask 
Miss S to prove what she was declaring or check other information sources to verify what 
she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Uncle Buck to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into her circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, 
to suggest Miss S wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Miss S has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate she feels 
strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment 
but I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
Our adjudicator has already taken the opportunity to remind Uncle Buck (or any third party) 
that it should discuss payment options with Miss S and treat her fairly and sympathetically. 
If Miss S still needs further time to pay what she still owes and/or she would like help to sort 
out an agreed payment schedule or advice on how to manage her finances theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide her with 
useful contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman