DRN-3013308
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (HBOS) hasnt reimbursed her after she transferred 
money to an investment that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mrs O has been the victim of a scam. She was tricked 
into sending £3,160 to a work colleague who said it would be invested and make Mrs O a 
profit. However, Mrs O didnt receive a return on her investment and her work colleague 
has not been forthcoming with any further information. In total, Mrs O made the following 
payments:
£2,160 on 3 November 2017
£1,000 22 December 2017
Mrs O made all of the above transfers without any interaction with HBOS staff. However, 
she now feels that HBOS shouldve identified the payments she was attempting to make as 
suspicious and stopped them from leaving her account. Mrs O now wants HBOS to refund 
her total loss. 
HBOS declined to offer Mrs O a refund. It didnt agree that it could have done anything 
more than it already had to protect Mrs O and so she brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt the transactions Mrs O made werent 
unusual and out of character when compared to her usual account activity and so she 
didnt think there would have been a reason for HBOS to have questioned Mrs O about 
the payments before they allowed them to leave her account. She also thought HBOS had 
done all it could to recover Mrs Os funds once notified of the scam but the funds had 
already been removed from the receiving account prior to Mrs O informing HBOS of what 
had happened. 
Mrs O didnt agree with the investigators findings. As an agreement has not been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mrs O. I have significant sympathy 
for the situation she has found herself in. But having thought very carefully about what 
shes told us happened at the time and HBOSs actions, Im not persuaded it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to hold HBOS liable for her loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mrs Os complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mrs O, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
HBOS should reimburse her with the money she has unfortunately lost to the scammer. 
Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HBOS should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud 
(among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, 
have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before 
processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HBOS acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs O when she transferred £3,160 to a fraudster and when she reported 
the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Mrs O authorised the payments herself. She logged into her internet banking and used her 
security details in order to request the payments be made to the account she specified. And 
whilst we now know that these transfers were made as a result of fraud, the funds were 
regardless paid to the account details Mrs O had entered and therefore the transactions 
were requested and authorised by her. Because of this, HBOS had an obligation to follow 
her instructions. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained above. I 
consider that as a matter of good practice HBOS shouldve been on the lookout for unusual 
and out of character transactions.
So, Ive then thought about whether the transfers Mrs O made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with her usual account activity. Ive reviewed Mrs 
Os account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and Im not persuaded they were. Mrs O had made similar payments in the months leading up to the 
scam. For example, Mrs O had completed the following transactions:
£1,500 payment out on 11 September 2017
£2,040 payment out on 23 October 2017
£5,000 payment out on 25 October 2017
And so, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that payments in their lower thousands 
taking place in relatively quick succession were unusual for Mrs O  she had carried out 
very similar transactions in the months before.
Ive also thought about the fact the payments were sent to a new payee. However, I 
dont find that a payment to a new payee is in itself suspicious enough to mean that 
HBOS shouldve considered that Mrs O was at risk of financial harm and contacted her 
before it made the payments at her request.
It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that HBOS shouldve 
identified the payments Mrs O made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks  
especially given that the payments themselves were relatively low in value and Mrs O 
had made numerous similar payments from the account in the months prior. 
Ive also thought about whether HBOS couldve done more to help Mrs O once it was 
notified of the scam but I dont think it could. The funds were transferred to another HBOS 
account. But, unfortunately, by the point that HBOS became aware of the scam, all of Mrs 
Os funds had been removed and there was nothing left to return to her.
Finally, I want to say that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mrs O has found 
herself in. But I dont think her loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of HBOS. 
The fault here lies with the fraudster themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman