DRN-2467437
The complaint
Mrs S complaint concerns an ISA transfer carried out by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
At a meeting with her Nationwide Financial Planning Manager on 11 October 2019, Mrs S 
completed the forms required to initiate a transfer of £5,000 from her stocks and shares ISA 
to her cash ISA.
A follow-up meeting was booked for 2 November 2019 to look at re-balancing the stocks and 
shares ISA. But when it became clear the transfer wouldnt complete in time, the meeting 
was moved to 9 November 2019, by which time the transfer had successfully completed. 
Mrs S was unhappy with the transfer. Firstly, she was concerned that despite requesting a 
sum of £5,000 only £4,935.98 was actually transferred. Secondly, she was unhappy with the 
time taken for the transfer to complete. On looking at the chronology of events, it became 
apparent that the first part of the transfer  the request being sent from Nationwide to the 
cash ISA provider  appeared to have taken 10 days. Mrs S felt this was unreasonable given 
the speed with which electronic banking transactions could be usually be completed. 
Nationwide explained that the shortfall in the transfer amount was due to ongoing adviser 
and annual charges being applied to the account on the day payment was made. The timing 
of this led to the charges being taken from the cash intended for the transfer. 
In respect of the time taken for the transfer to complete, Nationwide noted that there was a 
service level agreement in place with the cash ISA provider that transfers would be 
completed within 30 days. It said Mrs S transfer had been completed within this timescale. 
But it acknowledged that Mrs S expectations couldve been better managed and offered her 
compensation of £175 to acknowledge this, along with some errors made in the handling of 
the complaint, and also to make up the transfer shortfall. 
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response. Along with not accepting what it had said 
about the transfer amount and delay, she was also particularly unhappy that Nationwides 
response to her complaint had effectively passed off as its own a chronology of events 
document that Mrs S had put together herself in making her complaint. 
Our investigator considered the matter but concluded that Nationwides response was 
generally fair. Mrs S didnt accept this, reiterating her view that the delay in the transfer was 
unreasonable and that there should be a way in which he issue of the transfer shortfall could 
be avoided. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three primary elements to Mrs S complaint. The transfer amount, the delay and 
the handling of the complaint  particularly Nationwide passing off her chronology as its own 
work. Ill address the three elements in order. 
The transfer amount
I understand it will have been frustrating for Mrs S to only receive the £4,935.98 into her 
cash ISA when shed been planning on receiving £5,000. But the explanation provided by 
Nationwide appears reasonable and I dont think that the likely ongoing impact of the issue is 
such that Nationwide needs to do anything to address it on a system-wide basis. 
Ive noted what Mrs S has said about the transfer request form indicating that any shortfall in 
the requested amount will be made up by the sale of units, and Nationwide has confirmed 
that would generally be the case. But it seems there will nevertheless still be the occasional 
coincidence where the application of the charges to the account and the cash transfer 
overlap and this will lead to the situation encountered by Mrs S.  
Although it strikes me as unlikely to happen again in future  the probability of the dates 
coinciding is low given the charges are only taken once each month  the issue could be 
avoided by ensuring the dates dont coincide, or withdrawing a higher amount to cover them, 
or simply supplementing the amount with cash from another source. 
The delay  
Mrs S is particularly concerned with the initial 10-day period between her completing the 
transfer form on 11 October 2019 and the cash ISA provider receiving it on 21 October 2019. 
Looking at the calendar, 11 October 2019 fell on a Friday and 21 October 2019 fell on a 
Monday. So, there were actually only five business days between the two dates. I dont think 
this is particularly excessive in the context of a process with a 30-day service level 
agreement, nor in the context of the industry norm for this type of transfer. 
I would imagine that on occasion this part of the process takes less time, but sometimes 
more, depending on the volume of such work the businesses involved are administering. 
The same would apply to other stages in the process. But as Mrs S transfer as a whole 
completed within the agreed time limit, I dont think I can reasonably find Nationwide to have 
acted incorrectly, in which case I dont think that, in itself, the delay requires any further 
explanation or investigation.  
The handling of the complaint
Again, I can understand why Mrs S would have been annoyed by the inclusion of her own 
chronology of events as part of Nationwides response, with the impression given that it was 
worked carried out as part of Nationwides own investigation. 
But, on balance, I dont think this was anything more than an oversight on Nationwides part. 
I suspect the source of the document was missed at some point in the process and an 
incorrect assumption then made about who had completed the document. 
In summary, I feel that the Nationwides response to Mrs S complaint was generally 
reasonable, and that its offer of £175 to compensate her  and to include making up the 
shortfall in the transfer amount  is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman