DRN-3175010
The complaint
Mr H says Just Financial Planning Ltd (JFP) didnt provide competent advice about the 
switch of his crystallised drawdown pension funds to a new provider. He says this led to an 
investment loss and hes unhappy that he paid significant fees for a flawed service.
What happened
Mr H became a client of JFP in 2019. The following year he informed it that hed found a 
commercial property he was interested in buying with funds from his Self-invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). At the time his pension was worth about £420,000.
JFP prepared paperwork for a meeting with Mr H on 14 February 2020. This included an 
instruction that could be initiated quickly to move around £300,000 of his investments into 
cash. The funds were to cover the purchase and development costs for the commercial 
property. The process to sell the bulk of his investments began immediately following the 
meeting.
JFP and Mr H met again on 20 February 2020 to discuss the suitability report it had 
produced for him. Mr Hs objectives were recorded in the following terms:
- To purchase a commercial property with his pension fund which he and his wife 
would run as a restaurant and takeaway.
- Ensure his pension fund could be passed to his wife in the event of his death.
- Ensure his remaining portfolio was invested tax efficiently and available to provide 
additional liquidity if needed.
To deliver these objectives JFP recommended Mr H should:
- Transfer his existing Transact pension into a SIPP with Talbot & Muir (T&M).
- Within his new SIPP, allocate £300,000 towards the purchase and associated costs 
of a commercial property.
- Open an account with Aviva Wrap through his T&M SIPP and place £120,000 into an 
Investment Account on the platform.
- Invest the balance of the Aviva Investment Account into a discretionary managed 
portfolio with a lowest medium risk approach.
- When the property development was completed, reinvest the rental income into the 
Aviva Investment Account.
Its of note that JFPs assessment was that Mr Hs Transact portfolio had been invested 
above his assessed appetite for risk. Its recommendation for the residual funds would rectify 
this position.
JFP set out the fees and charges related to its recommendations.
JFP issued an addendum to its first suitability report on 21 February. This was to reflect the 
outcome of the previous days meeting at which Mr H had stated his wish to increase the 
amount allocated to cover the costs of his commercial property interest. Accordingly, 
£326,000 was earmarked for the property and the balance of £94,000 would be placed in the 
Aviva Wrap.
Mr H was content with JFPs advice. He signed the T&M SIPP declaration and an application 
was completed for the full transfer of funds from his Transact SIPP on 21 February 2021. 
JFP contacted TM on 27 February 2020 for an update. And it said Mr Hs SIPP had been 
established and the funds requested from his former provider.
Between 13 February 2020 and 3 March 2020, Mr Hs SIPP cash account balance increased 
from around £6,000 to about £332,000. This reflected disinvestment from most of his 
holdings in readiness for his commercial property venture.
Unfortunately matters didnt proceed smoothly from this point. On 2 March 2020 the full 
transfer of Mr Hs pension was put on hold. JFP says he asked it to explore a partial transfer, 
after looking into this it confirmed that wasnt possible because he was already in drawdown. 
After some deliberations, Mr H agreed to progress the full transfer of his pension from 
Transact to T&M. But a problem with the liquidity of his L&G property fund put a break on 
proceeding.
It wasnt until 15 May 2020 when TM agreed in the circumstances to accept the switch of his 
illiquid property fund by re-registering his holding, that the switch of his SIPP funds from 
Transact could be executed. The funds moved across in July 2020.
Mr H had several concerns about JFPs advice and handling. For example, he says the initial 
advice was to transfer the monies required for the property fund to T&M immediately and 
leave the remainder invested as then with Transact. It was only later that JFP realised that 
because his pension was crystallised, he couldnt split his drawdown funds in this manner.
Mr H says JFPs second mistake was when it sought to transfer his whole portfolio to T&M, 
selling his remaining holdings to cash at the end of March 2020. The problem was he had an 
illiquid property fund, so the full transfer couldnt proceed until this was resolved. The 
disinvestment of the rest of his remaining holdings went ahead, but he says this meant the 
funds that were earmarked for reinvestment through the Aviva Wrap were left out of the 
market.
JFP rejected Mr Hs complaint. It thought his expectations were unreasonable, that 
essentially it shouldve been able to predict short-term market movements during a period 
when Covid-19 was taking hold.
JFP said that its advice to Mr H had been that he should complete a full switch of his 
pension from Transact to T&M. And that he had asked for this to be put on hold while a 
partial transfer was explored. 
JFP says that as well as market volatility, Mr H was also grappling with uncertainties around 
the purchase of his commercial property. These matters meant that he was unsure how to 
proceed with his pension arrangements. It also says it raised concerns about the funds 
residual to his planned property purchase being held in cash, and that it told Mr H he could 
re-purchase assets sold. But that he said he preferred to be in cash at that time.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He found that JFP had provided him with 
advice to carry out a full transfer of his pension funds in February 2020 and that the main reason this hadnt proceeded was due to his interventions. He also thought the fees JFP had 
charged had been clearly set out to Mr H.
Mr H disagreed with the Investigator, so his complaint has been passed to me to review 
afresh and issue a decision as the final part of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
In responding to the Investigators view Mr H said:
Just Financial if competent in pension transfers should be aware that the governing laws 
strictly prohibit the transfer of funds in part. Of course I did not know that in my discussions 
with Just Financial.
I was advised to get the funds moved over to Talbot Muir in readiness for the purchase. I 
asked if it was possible to move the amounts to cover the property purchase at this time.
I should have been advised cant do that! Governing rules dont permit partial transfers 
Instead Just Financial immediately gave the order to sell in part my fund and advised Talbot 
Muir to request the funds.
I refute the fact that I chose to delay the switch or resume it. It is very clear to me that if I 
had been advised correctly all the funds would have been sold and transferred (in readiness 
for the property purchase) to Talbot & Muir in February as the governing rules/laws dictated.
I hold Just Financial responsible for accepting a fee of £4000 for advice they were not 
competent to give and costly delays that occurred as a result.
Mr H told this Service the value of his portfolio was £421,000 when it should all have been 
converted to cash. The amount eventually transferred equated to £406,000. As well as this 
loss, he says that JFP charged him £4000 for flawed advice.
Where there are conflicting accounts about what happened and gaps in what we know about 
a dispute, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened. 
I tend to place more weight on information that is contemporaneous with the events 
complained about  memories can and do fade and positions can become entrenched.
JFP provided two suitability reports for Mr H dated 19 February, with an addendum of 21 
February 2020. The recommendation to switch his full Transact pension to an arrangement 
with T&M was clear. The purpose being to enable him to purchase a commercial property, 
with residual funds being invested in line with his assessed attitude to risk (he was at that 
time over-exposed in this regard).
Theres no evidence to support Mr Hs assertion that JFP had recommended a partial switch 
of his funds at any time. If it had done so I wouldve expected a suitability report, like those of 
19 and 21 February 2020  but neither party has been able to provide such.Rather, it appears it was Mr H who raised the question of conducting a partial switch of his 
pension funds. JFP says that on 2 March 2020, it had a conversation with Mr H. It recorded: 
[Mr H] is very worried about the market volatility we are seeing and is concerned that the 
remaining higher risk holdings will be disinvested during a time when markets may suddenly 
increase in value. He does not want to disinvest funds at this time of volatility. He asked 
whether he could do a partial transfer and admin team spoke to T&M and Transact. T&M 
agreed to re-request the transfer on this basis.
I agree with the Investigator that at this point JFP shouldve informed him this was unlikely to 
be possible. But it went on to research the matter. On 10 March 2020 Transact confirmed 
that because its SIPP wasnt segmented, a partial switch of Mr Hs pension wasnt allowed. 
Generally, a drawdown fund in one pension scheme cant be split on transfer, it must be 
transferred in its entirety to the receiving scheme.
JFP contacted Mr H to let him know and to discuss options. It recorded:
[Mr H] advised in telephone conversation at 11.30 on 10 March that he doesn't want to be 
out of the market at this time and as there is no expected completion date for the purchase 
at this stage he would prefer to wait it out and review the position again in the next couple of 
weeks in the hope that valuations may improve.
Understandably, market volatility and the status of his commercial property venture were 
uppermost in his mind. This complicated the decisions he needed to take. But he seems to 
have wanted to progress with the overall strategy JFP had recommended in February 2020. 
For example, he asked it to ensure the Aviva Wrap was established within his new T&M 
SIPP in the meantime so that his residual funds could be reinvested as quickly as possible 
when he did proceed.
On 16 March 2020, JFP contacted Mr H again to check if he wanted to suspend the switch 
of Transact funds waiting for market volatility to reduce. He said:
Yes I will leave as long as possible but don't like the idea of the funds being in limbo for at 
least five days! I don't see why the whole fund can't be transferred as it is with investments 
intact it is not being crystallised like before.
Following further exchanges between the parties, JFP says that on 26 March 2020 Mr H told 
it that he thought his remaining investments had increased sufficiently so that he could move 
to cash, reluctantly accepting the risk. In theory this meant the switch to his T&M SIPP could 
proceed.
Unfortunately, a further complication came to light on 27 March 2020 which stymied 
progress. One of Mr Hs remaining investments was in the L&G Property Fund. This had 
been suspended on 18 March 2020 due to what was described as extreme market 
uncertainty caused by Covid-19. JFP discussed the situation with Mr H. It recorded:
rang [Mr H] to discuss and asked whether we should attempt to cancel the other trades, 
or whether to let it go to cash which could then be reinvested if appropriate. [Mr H] instructed 
to leave to go to cash and review the position on Monday. [The adviser] explained because 
of the partial transfer rules it meant that the transfer would unlikely be able to proceed as 
intended.
On 30 March 2020, JFP contacted Transact about whether there was a workaround the 
issue of the suspended fund. But it said there wasnt. Between 31 March 2020 and 6 April 
2020 it worked on an alternative solution. Another SIPP provider would accept funds to its segmented SIPP and do a partial switch out of the cash to purchase the property. It said it 
advised Mr H of this solution. But he wasnt sure how to proceed. It recorded:
With the crisis on he is really not sure how to proceed and whether he wants to because of 
the Covid-19 crisis. He wishes to leave things as they are for the time-being. I warned him 
about the risk of being out of the market and he can accept this advising that he feels he has 
dodged a bullet since the funds needed for the purchase were moved to cash before the 
crisis and would have suffered large losses if left invested. Therefore, he takes the view that 
he is still in profit overall and can accept being in cash.
On 9 April 2020, JFP emailed Mr H saying it didnt want him to remain in cash for longer than 
necessary. And it asked him if he wanted to go ahead with its alternative solution. It said he 
replied saying he didnt want to use an alternative provider. It said it would do some more 
research on other solutions.
After trying to move things forward, JFP was contacted by Mr H on 20 April saying he hadnt 
replied to its recent communications because he wasnt sure if the property purchase would 
go ahead due to planning concerns. JPL noted the continued volatility of the market and the 
potential upside and downside of him remaining in cash. He said he would remain in cash.
On 30 April 2020, JFP recorded Mr H had contacted Transact directly to find a solution. It 
also contacted Transact and TM again from its side. In addition, JFP continued to explore 
the use of other SIPP providers to deliver what Mr H wanted.
Ultimately, on 15 May 2020 TM agreed to accept the switch of Mr Hs SIPP by re-registering 
his holding in the L&G Property Fund from Transact, without it having to be sold. The switch 
to TM went ahead, with funds moving across in July 2020.
On balance, I dont think JFP has acted unreasonably or unprofessionally in its dealings with 
Mr H. It delivered clear recommendations consistent with his circumstances and objectives, 
which he appears to have accepted. I think its more likely than not it was his interactions 
with JFP which delayed the execution of its advice, and this resulted in some of the 
complications that were subsequently experienced.
Mr H was informed about the cost of JFPs advice. It conducted considerable work on his 
behalf including completing a fact-find into his circumstances and objectives; conducting 
market research for alternative pension arrangements; and delivery of two suitability reports, 
and the execution of its recommendations. 
I can see that in some of his correspondence Mr H confirms that he was happy with 
significant elements of JFPs work, acknowledging that he wouldve lost out a lot more had 
he not followed advice to move his holdings into cash to cover for the purchase of his 
commercial property.
Ive concluded it would be unreasonable for me to require JFP to refund his fees based on 
the information available to me.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Kevin WilliamsonOmbudsman