DRN-3285866
The complaint
Mr T says that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, were unreasonable to reject 
a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr T made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
It was an implied term of Mr Ts contract with the supplier of the pergola that the goods 
would be of satisfactory quality. If they werent, as was the case here, then there was a 
breach of contract.
But the supplier had offered to rectify that breach as theyd offered to replace the goods. In 
those circumstances I think if Barclaycard had raised a chargeback through the scheme 
organiser it wouldnt have been successful as the merchant would have provided a valid 
defence by explaining they were rectifying the breach.
I dont think Barclaycard were wrong to reject a section 75 claim either as there was no 
longer a breach of contract. The supplier had fulfilled their obligation to replace or repair the 
goods.
Mr T has suggested the supplier has breached its contract with him because he says their 
collection process is unreasonable and created too much inconvenience. I dont think the 
collection procedure the supplier follows is anything to do with the original contract Mr T 
entered into. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest the collection procedure 
represented a breach of contract. And I dont think its unreasonable of the supplier not to be 
able to give a more definitive collection time or ask Mr T to disassemble and pack the goods 
ready for removal. I understand that dismantling was a labour intensive process but, as the 
supplier couldnt supply the feet separately, I dont think the request was unreasonable.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman