DRN-4279800
The complaint
Mr E complains that East End Fair Finance Limited, trading as Fair Finance, lent to him 
irresponsibly when it provided him with two loans which he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr E took out a loan agreement with Fair Finance for £130 in February 2021. He paid the 
loan of over six months and the repayments were £28.78 each month.
In July of the same year, Mr E took out a further loan for £400. This was repayable over 12 
months and Mr E paid £52.73 a month.
Mr E says that Fair Finance shouldnt have lent to him because he was struggling with other 
debt, and he had a gambling problem. He thinks Fair Finance was negligent in allowing him 
to take the loans and asks that Fair Finance pay back all interest and charges on the loan.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Es complaint should be upheld. Mr E disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr E made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Es complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
Fair Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Es income and expenditure. There is no set list of checks a 
business has to do. 
The first loan.
In Mr Es case, Fair Finance has provided evidence of the checks it completed, and the 
information Mr E gave during his application. Mr E declared a net monthly salary of around 
£820 a month plus a further £400 in working benefits. He was living with a partner and 
paying around £250 a month in rent. He stated that his other essential outgoings came to 
around £300 a month. Fair Finance carried out a credit check which showed Mr E had 
existing total debt of around £3,000. He had another loan, two credit cards, two mail order 
accounts and five current accounts. It appeared those were being managed well, although 
Mr E had recently defaulted on a mobile phone contract. Mr E told Fair Finance that he was 
in dispute with the mobile phone company as the phone was faulty. 
Prior to applying for this loan, Mr E had been declined another loan with Fair Finance about 
eight months earlier because Mr Es bank statements showed evidence that he was 
gambling to a level that gave concern. 
Our investigator said that, in relation to this loan, Fair Finance should have done further 
checks because of the relatively recent information about Mr Es gambling. 
Our investigator concluded that even if Fair Finance had found out more about Mr Es 
financial situation it likely still would have made the same decision to lend to Mr E. Our 
investigator noted that there were no prescriptive checks that Fair Finance ought to have 
done, but that on the basis of Mr Es payslips and credit file which he kindly provided, there 
was no information to suggest Mr E wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay the 
lending. 
In fact, following our investigators view, Fair Finance confirmed with evidence that it did 
check Mr Es bank statements at the time. Those bank statements showed that Fair Finance 
actively considered Mr Es gambling in February 2021, noting that his average monthly 
gambling in the three months leading up to the loan represented less than 1% of Mr Es net 
income. It also noted his payments to other credit providers which came to about £130 and 
the two missed payments to the mobile phone provider. It sought and accepted his 
explanation for the missed payments to the mobile phone provider.
While this is new information which Mr E hasnt commented on, it doesnt change the 
outcome of Mr Es complaint. I am satisfied that Fair Finance did complete necessary and 
proportionate checks on Mr Es financial circumstances before it lent to him and that it acted 
fairly on those checks. I dont think Fair Finance saw anything to think that Mr E wouldnt be 
able to afford repayments of around £30 a month for six months.
Mr E has indicated that he was gambling heavily at that time. He hasnt been able to provide 
evidence of his actual outlay at the time, though, and the bank statements he provided to 
support is application to Fair Finance didnt show a high level of gambling.
The second loan.
Mr E took a second loan shortly before the end of the first loan. This was for a holiday. Fair 
Finance carried out a new credit check, including looking at Mr Es bank statements. 
It found that Mr Es total debts elsewhere had increased to around £3,500 and that he was 
utilising about 43% of his available credit. Mr Es default was still apparent, but Mr E had 
already explained that to Fair Finance. His other accounts were being managed well.
Fair Finance also checked Mr Es bank statements. There was no evidence of problematic 
gambling. His income matched that he had declared to Fair Finance. It also had the 
reassurance that Mr E had managed his existing loan well and that it was about to be paid 
off completely. 
On the basis of this information, I think Fair Finance completed necessary and proportionate 
checks and acted fairly on the outcome of those checks. My final decision
In conclusion, I do not think Fair Finance acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to Mr E 
and so I do not think Mr E lost out as a result of anything Fair Finance did wrong. It follows 
that I do not think Fair Finance needs to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman