DRN-4041915
The complaint
Ms T complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has handled a claim 
under her motorhome insurance policy.
Markerstudy is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of its agent. As Markerstudy has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agent, in my decision, any reference to Markerstudy includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
In August 2021, Ms T was involved in an incident with another vehicle. She says the other 
driver reversed into the front of her vehicle.
Ms T says there was no damage to either vehicle, so she didnt make a claim. However, 
shortly afterwards, Markerstudy informed her that the other drivers insurer had notified it of 
the incident and was alleging that Ms T was responsible for damage to their car.
Markerstudy asked Ms T to complete a report of the incident, which she did. Ms T also 
provided photographs shed taken at the scene. Markerstudy thanked her for providing the 
images and told her it had sent her allegations to the third-party insurers. 
In May 2022, Markerstudy offered to settle the other drivers claim on a 50/50 liability split 
basis. Ms T was unhappy with this, as she didnt believe she was responsible for the 
accident. So, she complained to Markerstudy.
Markerstudy said it had received allegations from the third partys insurer, stating that Ms T 
had gone into the rear of the other drivers vehicle. Markerstudy said that without evidence to 
support either version of events, the possible outcome would be to agree a 50/50 split 
liability. It said it couldnt use Ms Ts passengers as witnesses as they werent classed as 
independent. 
Markerstudy apologised for the difficulties Ms T had contacting its claims team and sent her 
a cheque for £35 to compensate her for this. 
Ms T remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2023 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Ms Ts complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand the claim is still open and liability is yet to be agreed between Markerstudy and 
the third-party insurer. To be clear, Ive only considered events complained of that occurred 
prior to Markerstudys final response letters of June and September 2022. 
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to establish which party is responsible for an 
incident. What Ive needed to decide is whether or not Markerstudy has acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The policys terms and conditions say Markerstudy shall be entitled to take over and 
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim or prosecute any claim in the name of any 
person covered by this insurance.
Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, so I dont find this unusual. 
This means Markerstudy is entitled to decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. However, 
it also has an obligation to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. So, Ive also thought about whether its acted fairly towards Ms T.
I can see that Markerstudy sent its allegation that the third party was responsible for the 
accident to their insurer in August 2021. However, in April 2022, the third partys insurer said 
it maintained its position that Ms T was at fault for the accident. It said the third party was 
stopped when Ms T went into the rear of their vehicle. It asked Markerstudy if it had any 
evidence to support Ms Ts claim that the third party had reversed into her vehicle.
In response, Markerstudy suggested to the third-party insurer that a 50/50 settlement would 
be appropriate in the absence of evidence that supports either parties version of events.
Ms T says she has provided evidence to support her version of events. Shes referred to the 
photographs shed taken at the scene, witnesses and a comment she says the other driver 
made to her at the time.
Markerstudy says it cant use the witnesses as they are not classed as independent. I 
understand the witnesses are Ms Ts son and friends that were passengers in her vehicle. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable for Markerstudy to have concluded that they werent 
independent. 
I also dont think it was unreasonable for Markerstudy to disregard what Ms T says the other 
driver said to her at the scene. She says he told her hed only had his car for a short time 
and wasnt used to its silence due to it being electric. I dont think finding out how long the 
other driver had his car would prove this is what he said or that hed admitted being 
responsible for the accident.
However, Markerstudy also appears to have disregarded the photographs Ms T sent of the 
two vehicles at the scene of the incident. Its told us that it hasnt shared these with the third-
party insurer. I can see its noted that the images are no help as these are just of the vehicle 
at the scene. Its also told us that it doesnt have any evidence of damage to the third partys 
vehicle.
Markerstudy says it doesnt require the third party to send repairs evidence as its a low 
amount. However, Ms T strongly disputes there being any damage to either vehicle and 
shes provided photographs to support this. Its possible that the damage isnt visible in the 
photographs. But, without knowing what the alleged damage is, I dont think its reasonable 
for Markerstudy to have disregarded the images as being of no help. 
Im not persuaded that Markerstudy carried out an adequate investigation of the 
circumstances of the incident, before suggesting the 50/50 liability split. I think it should have 
properly considered the photographic evidence Ms T provided. It might have shared this with 
the third-party insurer in dispute of the liability. It might also have requested evidence of the damage to the other vehicle so it could see if this was consistent with what the photographs 
show.
Markerstudy has recently told us that it is still waiting for the third-party insurers to reply to its 
offer of a 50/50 settlement. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for it to request further 
information to evidence the damage to the third partys vehicle, such as an engineers report 
or proof of repairs. I think it should then reconsider its position on liability in light of the new 
information alongside the photographic evidence Ms T has provided.
When liability for an incident is in dispute, its not unusual for claims to take many months or, 
in some cases, years to resolve. However, Ive reviewed the timeline of events up until 
Markerstudys final response letter of September 2022. And I think it could have been a bit 
more proactive in chasing the third-party insurer for a response and updating Ms T. 
While the photographic evidence Ms T provided might not make a difference to the overall 
outcome of the claim, I think Markerstudys decision to disregard it caused her to experience 
some unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So, I intend to award Ms T £250 
compensation for the impact Markerstudys actions have had on her. This is in addition to 
the £35 Markerstudy has already paid.
I set out what I intended to direct Markerstudy to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Markerstudy said it had reviewed the file again and had obtained comments from one of its 
senior engineers. The engineer had advised that a close up inspection of the images Ms T 
had provided showed some damage to both Ms Ts car and the third-party vehicle. 
Markerstudy said the images dont add any value to the consideration of liability, they simply 
support that an incident occurred. By asking for proof of repairs from the third party there 
would only be a discussion around the costs as it cant be determined who would be at fault. 
It said the case is still ongoing, and the outcome is always subject to change. It was still 
awaiting a response from the third party who previously maintained Ms T was at fault.
I let both parties know that in light of this new information, I no longer intended to direct 
Markerstudy to see further information regarding damage to the third-party vehicle and 
reconsider its position on liability. However, I still intended to award Ms T £250 for distress 
and inconvenience because I didnt think Markerstudy had communicated with her as clearly 
as it should have done. I also remained of the opinion that Markerstudy should have been 
more proactive in chasing the third-party insurer for a response and keeping Ms T up to 
date. I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further comments or information before I 
reached a final decision.
Ms T provided images of her vehicle which she said were taken before the accident to show 
that the damage Markerstudy had referred to was already there. We shared these with 
Markerstudy who said it would refer them to its engineer, but these didnt show the date the 
photographs were taken. We passed on some further screenshots Ms T provided, along with 
her explanation as to how the damage had occurred to her vehicle a year before she bought 
it. 
Markerstudy said the screenshots didnt add any value for it to defend liability. Without 
independent witness or video evidence, it had no alternative but to continue to defend the 
case as much as possible.Markerstudy also commented that it felt £250 for distress and inconvenience was excessive. 
It said Ms T wasnt claiming for damage and Markerstudys involvement was simply to 
defend the third party allegations and avoid going to court and incurring the associated 
costs. It said the team that reviewed the images Ms T had sent in September 2021 found no 
evidence of a defence using the pictures so had commented that they added no value. It 
said it had sent several chasers to the third-party insurer through the correct channels. It 
couldnt threaten to take court action itself as it wasnt claiming for any damage, so it was 
awaiting the third-party insurers response and next steps. It said it had explained to Ms T 
that as it stands there are allegations Markerstudy aims to defend, but the most likely 
outcome is 50/50.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I intended to direct Markerstudy to seek further information 
regarding damage to the third-party vehicle and reconsider its position on liability in light of 
the photographic evidence Ms T has provided.
Further to this, Markerstudy obtained its engineers comments on the photographs Ms T 
provided in September 2021. Ms T says the damage on her vehicle was already present at 
the time of the accident. However, Makerstudy has also pointed to damage to the other 
vehicle, which it says supports an incident having occurred. In light of this, I dont think its 
necessary for Markerstudy to seek further information regarding damage to the third-party 
vehicle at this stage. 
Whilst Ive accepted this additional information from Markerstudy, Im not persuaded to 
change my position regarding an award for distress and inconvenience. 
I acknowledge what Markerstudy has said about being limited in what its able to do to move 
things forward, given that the claim for damages is from the third party, rather than Ms T. But 
the timeline its provided suggests there was a four month gap between November 2021 and 
March 2022, with no chasing or updates to Ms T. So, I think it could have done more here.
The terms of the policy allow Markerstudy to decide how to handle the claim. But it also 
needs to treat Ms T fairly. Its not disputed that there was contact between the two vehicles 
and I appreciate the difficulties of determining who was at fault. 
Ms T is adamant that the third party was responsible for the accident and his claim that she 
caused damage to his vehicle was dishonest. Shed written his car no damage and my car 
no damage beneath the photographs to try to demonstrate this. 
Markerstudy has pointed to a small mark on the rear bumper of the third partys vehicle, in its 
response to my provisional decision. But it hadnt referred to this previously and its notes 
suggest this wasnt observed when Ms T provided the photographs. 
I think it was upsetting for Ms T, when Markerstudy didnt acknowledge her concerns that the 
other driver might be claiming for damage that wasnt caused by the accident. If Markerstudy 
had explained to Ms T that there was visible damage to the third-party vehicle, it might have 
helped her understand why it had offered to settle the claim on a 50/50 liability split. So, I 
dont think its communicated with Ms T as clearly as it should have done. As I said in my provisional decision, its not unusual for claims to take a long time to resolve 
when liability for an incident is in dispute. And I do appreciate that Markerstudy isnt able to 
move things forward by threatening court action, given that Ms T isnt claiming damage to 
her own vehicle. However, I think the customer service Ms T received from Markerstudy 
could have been better at times. So, I think it would be fair for it to pay her £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused her.
Putting things right
Markerstudy should:
Pay Ms T £250 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ts complaint and direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman