DRN-3816751
The complaint
Miss B has complained about information Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading 
as Argos Card (Argos), placed on her credit file.
What happened
In October 2021, a refund was applied to Miss Bs Argos credit account, which cleared her 
account balance. However, Argos mistakenly charged her interest of £0.43. Accordingly, her 
account was showing as having an outstanding balance, which required paying. However, 
Miss B hadnt expected this, and didnt notice it until the end of January 2022, when she 
contacted Argos to pay the outstanding balance. I note this also included other items on her 
account  which were buy now, pay later, and not due until March 2022.
Subsequently, in July 2022, Miss B saw shed had missed payment markers recorded on her 
credit file for two months. She complained to Argos, which initially said it hadnt made an 
error. However, it later acknowledged the mistake. To put things right, it offered Miss B £50 
compensation and removed the missed payment markers.
Miss B didnt feel this was enough, so she brought her complaint to our service. She 
explained that the missed payment markers were on her credit file for six months, she was 
declined loans, and was inconvenienced by having to sort things out, particularly given that 
Argos initially said it hadnt made an error.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Taking into account all of the 
circumstances, he recommended that Argos pay Miss B a total of £200 compensation.
Argos disagreed. It said it would increase its offer to £100, but considered £200 to be too 
much. It said that Miss B hadnt queried the balance when she received her account 
statements in December 2021 and January 2022. It noted that the terms and conditions of 
her account require her to check her monthly statement. Further, she hadnt alerted it to the 
missed payment markers until July 2022, so it hadnt had the opportunity to correct things 
before then. Nor had Miss B evidenced that shed suffered any loss as a result of the 
markers on her credit file.
The complaints now been passed to me to consider afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that £200 compensation is appropriate. I accept that Miss B should 
have checked her statements. However, ultimately, the mistake was made by Argos. And 
indeed, when she did report it, Argos initially denied responsibility. Its not possible to say for 
sure whether Miss B was declined credit based on these markers on her credit file. But, they 
certainly wouldnt have helped. Miss B has taken considerable time to sort this out, and I 
agree its been both stressful and inconvenient. I think £200 fairly reflects this. For the 
avoidance of doubt, this is a total of £200, as its unclear to me whether or not Argos has 
already paid her £50. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited, trading as Argos Card, to pay Miss B a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman