DRN-3022699
The complaint
Mr G complains that Arval UK Limited unfairly charged him for use of a car after it was 
collected.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
Arval. The term of the agreement was 48 months from the start date of 17 October 2016.
Prior to the contract ending, Mr G arranged a new lease car via his broker. There was a 
delay in the new lease car being available, so Mr G asked his broker to arrange for him to 
keep his existing contract until the new car was ready.
Arval agreed to a 6-month extension of the contract to 16 April 2021.
Mr Gs new car became available on 31 March 2021 and the old car was collected. 
Following collection, Arval invoiced Mr G for damage charges of £455.
Mr G was unhappy. He said that because hed returned the car on 31 March 2021, he 
shouldnt be charged for use up to 16 April 2021. He asked for a refund for this period of 
rental, which hes calculated at £111.95.
In response, Arval said it had agreed a formal 6-month extension until 16 April 2021 and that 
no partial refund was due.
Mr G wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr Gs broker had quoted for a 6-
month extension to the contract and that Mr G had instructed the broker to proceed. She 
also said that Arval had confirmed the 6-month extension in a letter dated 8 October 2020. 
She said the fact that Mr G returned the car before the end of the extension period didnt 
mean that he wasnt liable to make payment for the duration of the contract.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed never received a letter dated 8 October 2020 but that in any 
event, the extension that it referred to hadnt been negotiated between himself and Arval and 
he didnt consider himself bound by it. He said that Arval had unjustly enriched itself by 
charging him for the car when he was no longer in possession of it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken everything that Mr G has said into account. I wont reference every single point but 
will focus on those which I think are most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
Mr G says that following discussions with his broker, a new short-term contract was created 
with Arval (as opposed to a formal extension). He also says that, irrespective of whether it 
was a short-term contract or a formal extension, Mr G has paid for a period where he did not 
receive a service (i.e. use of the car) from Arval.
I will deal with the conversation between Mr g and the broker first. Mr G says there was a 
clear understanding that his old car would be collected on the day that his new car arrived. 
He says there was no intention  and no agreement  to enter into a fixed term contract. 
Following the conversation, the broker sent an email to Mr G, in reply to which Mr G agreed 
to a 6-month extension.
I wasnt present when the discussion between Mr G and the broker took place, so I cant be 
certain of exactly what was discussed. I have no reason to doubt Mr Gs testimony, however, 
it appears that there may have been either a lack of discussion or a misunderstanding about 
whether having the old car collected would negate the obligation to make further payments 
under the extended contract.
Ive thought about whether the broker made a misrepresentation. However, there isnt 
enough evidence for me to safely conclude that he did. And even if the broker did advise Mr 
G that the extended contract would end when he returned his old car, Im of the view that 
this statement was superseded when the broker emailed Mr G setting out the terms of the 6-
month extension, which Mr G indicated his agreement to proceed with.
Ive carefully considered the email sent by the broker to Mr G. It clearly refers to a 6-month 
extension at £216.90 per month. If Mr G thought that the email didnt accurately reflect his 
discussions with the broker, I wouldve expected him to query it at the time. Theres no 
evidence that he did so. In fact, the email chain shows that Mr G expressly instructed the 
broker to proceed.
The terms of the extension were confirmed by Arval in a letter dated 8 October 2020. I 
appreciate that Mr G has said that he didnt receive this letter. I can see that the letter was 
correctly addressed to Mr G so Im unbale to say why he didnt receive it. Even if the letter 
wasnt received by Mr G, this doesnt change my view of the outcome here, because Im 
satisfied, based on the email from the broker, that Mr G was aware of the terms of the 
extension in relation to term, mileage and payment.
I appreciate that Mr G handed the car back just over 2 weeks before the formal extension 
ended. However, theres nothing in the terms and conditions which says that a refund will be 
given in those circumstances. I cant say that Arval has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not 
issuing a refund or in refusing to offset against damage charges.
Mr G has said that he wasnt told that he would have to pay for services not rendered and 
says theres nothing in the agreement which says that he should. I understand the point that 
Mr G makes but I dont agree with it. The agreement refers to a 6-month formal extension. It 
doesnt say that a pro rata refund will be given in the event that the car is returned before the 
end of the formal extension. Therefore, theres no contractual basis for a  refund.
Taking all of the available information into account, Im unable to say that Arval has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman