DRN-3269061
The complaint
Mr S has complained that BIG Warranties Limited (BIG) has changed the terms and 
conditions of his home emergency insurance policy, reducing the scope of his cover, without 
providing him with clear notice of this.
What happened
Mr S has had a policy through BIG providing home emergency and boiler cover for 
approximately four years.
In January 2020 he received an email from BIG informing him that his cover was due to 
renew. It also informed him that BIG had recently changed underwriters to a UK based 
underwriter due to Brexit. The email went on to say:
You can see your new terms and conditions for domestic policies hereYou must read 
them to ensure that the policy continues to meet your needs and is suitable. If you have 
any questions or do not believe the policy remains suitable please contact us.
 
There was a link in the wording above where the new terms and conditions could be seen, 
but Mr S says the link didnt work for him. Hes provided a screenshot of what he saw when 
he attempted to use the link. Mr S didnt make any other enquiries about the new terms and 
conditions.
In August 2021, some eighteen months later, Mr S attempted to make a claim under the 
policy when his boiler broke down and he didnt have any hot water. BIG rejected the claim 
on the ground that he had an electric shower in the bathroom so he therefore wasnt without 
hot water. Mr S says this isnt sufficient with two young children in the house and hes had to 
bring in an independent engineer at his cost to deal with the problem.
Mr Ss complaint is that the email didnt inform him of what he describes as a drastic change 
in policy terms in not being covered if there was a shower in the house, which did not help 
him with two young children and no way of washing dishes and cooking utensils. He says he 
wouldve been covered for this under the original terms and conditions. He feels he was 
misled, and contends that:
..such a significant change as creating an exemption for anyone with a shower in the 
home (which I would imagine is most households in the UK) ought to necessitate the new 
Ts & Cs being attached as a document and also an up- front declaration that this is not 
the policy I took out.
Mr S says hes paid £258.80 in premiums since January 2020 when BIG introduced this 
change to the terms and conditions and since when his emergency boiler cover has been 
effectively useless. He wants a refund of at least this sum for the inconvenience and loss 
this has caused him.
BIG says it provided Mr S with adequate notice that his terms and conditions were
changing, and also advised him to read these to ensure that they met his needs. It says that 
the link in the email to the terms and conditions was active at the time but has now expired. 
It says he couldve contacted it and he would have been directed to BIGs website
where its terms and conditions are readily available. It says that as Mr S has been 
consistently covered for emergencies that fall under the terms and conditions of the policy, it 
wont provide a refund of the premiums hes paid. 
It says that as Mr S had access to hot water, this would not have been classed as an 
emergency claim under the previous terms and conditions either. 
As Mr S wasnt satisfied with BIGs response to his complaint he brought it to this service.
 
Our investigators view was that BIG had made it clear that the terms and conditions of Mr 
Ss policy had changed, and if the link to the new terms and conditions embedded in BIGs 
email  wasnt working for him, it wouldve been reasonable for him to have contacted BIG for 
a copy. He was also of the view that the new terms and conditions were sufficiently clear to 
show that if Mr S had any form of hot water or heating, it wouldnt be covered under the 
policy.
Mr S doesnt accept our investigators view. He says that his contention remains that the 
change to the level of cover was so critical to the validity of the policy as to render it more or 
less useless and, as such, should have been explicitly outlined in any communications from 
BIG, not hidden in small print. He asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S effectively maintains that there was a substantial change to the level of cover between 
the old and the new terms and conditions, and this shouldve been highlighted. He says the 
change rendered the cover more or less useless.
Mr S makes specific reference to no longer being covered because there was an electric 
shower in the house. Ive looked at both the original and the new terms and conditions of his 
policy. Neither of these make any reference to the presence of a shower.
His old policy terms and conditions stated that it covered emergencies, with an emergency 
being defined as:
 a sudden and unexpected event which, if not dealt with quickly would in the reasonable 
opinion of the helpline:
a) render the home unsafe or insecure; or
b) damage or cause further damage to the home; or
c) cause personal risk to you; or
d) cause a health and safety risk to others.
BIG has said that if Mr S had made his claim under the old terms and conditions, it wouldnt 
have been classed as an emergency as he continued to have access to hot water.
The new terms and conditions state (with my emphasis underlined):
What is Covered?Emergency repairs following the complete breakdown of the primary heating system
which:
a. Results in the complete loss of heating and/or;
b. Results in the complete loss of hot water.
My view is that Mr S would not have been covered under the old policy terms and conditions 
because the loss of hot water, although inconvenient, would not constitute an emergency if 
there was an electric shower available. Nor would he be covered under the new terms and 
conditions as he did not suffer a complete loss of hot water.
There therefore wasnt, in my view, such a significant change in the level of cover to justify 
highlighting it in the covering email. The new terms and conditions were available to be seen 
via the link, and if the link didnt work, as Mr S says it didnt, then he couldve checked on 
BIGs website or contacted it for advice.
I also disagree that the policy was useless to Mr S as he maintains. It covers a number of 
potential home emergency situations including plumbing and drainage issues, internal 
electricity, the gas and water supplies, security, access, pests and roofing, as well as the 
primary heating system. It therefore provides a number of protections to Mr S beyond hot 
water. So he has continued to receive benefit from it.
So whilst I can appreciate the inconvenience that Mr S wouldve suffered in having to make 
do with the hot water from his shower, I dont consider his position wouldve been any 
different had there been no change to the terms and conditions of his policy. I therefore dont 
consider that BIG has been unfair or unreasonable towards Mr S and Im not going to ask it 
to refund his premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman