DRN-1809435
The complaint
Mr S complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled two claims made on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S reported two claims to UKI. He said the other cars had run into the back of his. The 
second incident was reported three months after it occurred. UKI appointed an investigator 
to interview Mr S about the claims. UKI then declined to deal with the claims as it said they 
werent genuine. Mr S was unhappy with this and various issues about its investigation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think UKI 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably in investigating the claims. She thought UKI had 
sufficient reason to decline the claims and cancel the policy. 
Mr S replied that the claims were genuine. He raised further concerns about UKIs level of 
service. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S raised several issues about how his two claims had been investigated by UKI. These 
were about the other insurers involved, the appointment of an independent investigator and 
obtaining dashcam footage. 
Our investigator reviewed these concerns, and I agree that UKI carried out its investigation 
fairly and reasonably, and in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say 
UKI did anything wrong in this. I can see that UKI isnt the other parties insurer in the two 
incidents. And I can see that the other insurer didnt obtain dashcam footage and so UKI 
wasnt able to request this. 
I think Mr Ss main concern was that UKI declined to deal with his two claims and cancelled 
his policy. It said it thought the two claims may not be genuine. So Ive looked to see how it 
came to this conclusion. I can see that UKI told Mr S about its concerns. These included:
that there had been motor trade checks on his car before each incident;
the previous claims history at his address
the concerns of a previous insurer about an incident hed reported to it in 2016
the number of similar incidents hed been involved in in a relatively short time
the concerns of the third party insurer following its investigations into the June 2019 
incident
the similarity between the June 2019 and August 2019 incidents, and the fact that Mr S 
didnt report the August incident until 3 months later.
As the investigator has already explained, we think for an insurer to decline a claim for the 
reason of fraud, there must be evidence substantial enough to stand up in court. I can see 
that UKI has already told Mr S that its prepared to defend its decision in court. And I think 
its shown it has sufficient evidence to decline both claims and cancel the policy. This is in 
accordance with the policys General Conditions under section 9. So I cant say that UKI has 
acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining the claims and cancelling the policy. I dont 
require it to do anything further.
Mr S has subsequently raised further concerns with UKIs level of service. These have been 
treated as separate issues and a further complaint has been raised about them. So Im 
unable to consider these issues here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman