DRN-2442030
The complaint
Mr C complains that esure Insurance Limited wouldnt accept a claim on his home contents 
insurance for a lost diamond from his wifes engagement ring.
What happened
Mr C had a home insurance policy with esure. In May or June 2020, Mrs C lost the diamond 
from her engagement ring and Mr C made a claim under his policy. 
Mr C initially told esure that the ring was worth approximately £2,000. He later said he 
bought the ring for £1,400 about twenty years ago. esure explained that items worth over 
£1,500 had to be specified in Mr Cs insurance schedule. It said the engagement ring was 
worth more than £1,500 and, as it wasnt listed as a Specified Item in his policy, wasnt 
covered.
Mr C was unhappy with esures response, so brought his complaint to this service. He says, 
in summary:
Its unreasonable for esure to reject his claim by relying on legal jargon and a policy 
term in a 90-page document.
Its unreasonable for esure to ask him to produce a receipt for a ring bought twenty 
years ago.
At the very least, his insurance should pay up to £1,500 rather than nothing at all.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that esures policy was clear about what was covered, and that its reliance on the 
exclusion was reasonable. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr Cs home insurance policy covers him for accidental loss or damage to contents. esure 
highlighted page 10 of Mr Cs policy booklet (How we settle your claim) as its reason for 
rejecting his claim. This says, You will not be able to claim for any item valued at £1,500 
or more, under any section of this Policy if the item has not been listed as a Specified Item. 
The policy booklet includes a similarly explicit sentence at pages 10 and 23: We will not pay 
under any section of the Policy for any single item valued at £1,500 or more that has not 
been listed as a Specified Item. Mr Cs home insurance schedule has a space for Specified 
Items, defined as Individual items worth £1,500 or more and pedal cycles worth more than 
£500. The schedule states None disclosed.  
Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr Cs policy excludes any item with a value of more than 
£1,500 which wasnt separately declared. Mr C says he bought the ring for £1,400 in 2000. 
So Im satisfied that  with inflation  the value of the ring today would be more than £1,500. 
As such, it needed to be specified in Mr Cs policy.
Mr C told us he didnt read the 90-page policy and its unreasonable to expect anyone to do 
this. I disagree. I dont accept that not reading the policy documents is a reasonable excuse 
for not meeting its terms.
In any case, Mr C didnt have to read the full policy booklet to be aware of the limits to his 
cover. esure sent him several other documents when he renewed his insurance. Ive already 
mentioned the three-page home insurance schedule. esure also sent Mr C a two-page 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). This summarised the key features of the 
policy. Under the heading Are there any restrictions on cover?, the IPID lists Any high risk 
item(s) or household good(s) as defined in the policy booklet with a replacement cost of 
£1,500 or more must be added as a specified item. You will not be able to claim under any 
section of this policy if the item with a replacement cost of £1,500 or more has not been 
specified.
Finally, the first line of the insurance schedule says, Please check this document very 
carefully. It records the information you gave us. You have a duty to take reasonable care to 
ensure the information provided or confirmed to us before you enter into, vary or renew your 
Policy is accurate and not misleading. It tells Mr C to contact esure if any details are wrong. 
esure would have sent Mr C annual renewal documents which gave him the opportunity 
each year to check he was happy with the cover and make any necessary changes. Overall, 
Im satisfied esure clearly explained what was and wasnt covered by his policy.
esure told Mr C that it would reconsider its position if he could provide evidence he bought 
the ring for £1,400. Mr C hasnt provided this. Hes only been able to provide recent photos 
of the ring without the diamond. 
Mr C says its unreasonable to expect him to still have the receipt for a ring he bought 20 
years ago. He also says the jeweller he bought the ring from has gone out of business. I 
understand this. However, Mr C needs to show he has a valid claim under the policy  this is 
a general principle of insurance. Setting aside insurance for a moment, its also a matter of 
Common Law. 
Mr Cs policy sets this out: We may require evidence of ownership and/or proof of purchase, 
such as receipts/valuations  photographs will also help us proceed with the claim. And 
given Mr C initially told esure the ring was worth more than £1,500, I dont think its 
unreasonable for esure to ask for additional information now that he says it isnt. 
I understand how upsetting it must have been for Mr and Mrs C to have lost the diamond 
from Mrs Cs engagement ring. I understand that this would have been of great sentimental 
value. But, while I naturally sympathise with them, the issue here is whether esure has 
assessed the claim fairly. I think it has. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021. 
Simon BegleyOmbudsman