DRN-4294568
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with delays caused by Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Ltd (SF) when 
transferring the value of the pension he held with them to another provider. 
What happened
Mr G had a personal pension with SF, which reached maturity in December 2022 when Mr G 
reached his 75th birthday. The maturity value was £106,000.03. In January 2023, he decided 
to transfer this to a new provider, who Ill call BI here. 
SF received the transfer request from BI, via the ORIGO system, on 25 January 2023. This 
wasnt progressed, and Mr G contacted SF on various occasions seeking an update. SF 
sent Mr G the required transfer forms on 17 April 2023. He completed and returned them by 
email the following day, also sending hard copies in the post. 
By this time, Mr G was unhappy with the time it was taking to transfer the funds, and the lack 
of progress/updates, and complained to SF. At around the same time, the funds transfer was 
completed, with funds being transferred to BI on 25 May 2023. 
Responding to Mr Gs complaint, SF accepted thered been a delay, and added late payment 
interest of £655.17 to the amount transferred. They also told Mr G theyd consider any 
evidence he provided that showed the delay had caused any investment loss once BI 
invested the funds. And SF also offered to pay Mr G £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience (D&I) their actions had caused him.  
Mr G was unhappy with this offer. He was also unhappy that hed encountered further 
problems accessing his benefits from BI, as theyd said they werent in possession of the 
required information about his Lifetime Allowance (LTA), which SF should have provided. He 
brought his complaint to our Service. 
The LTA issue was resolved by the middle of July 2023. SF also increased their offer of D&I 
to £500, which Mr G eventually accepted, and this sum was paid at the end of July 2023.
Our Investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He agreed with SFs calculation regarding the 
length of delay theyd caused but disagreed with their redress calculation methodology. He 
set out his proposed redress methodology  our standard approach in transfer delay 
complaints  and asked SF to make the necessary enquiries with BI to allow the loss 
calculation to be done and any loss amount paid. 
He also explained that SFs late payment calculation wasnt in line with our redress 
approach, but as this had already been paid to BI, the amount would need to be offset 
against any eventual loss calculation. And he felt that £500 was fair compensation for the 
distress caused to Mr G by SFs delays and actions. 
SF were unhappy with elements of our Investigators View, particularly regarding the actions 
needed to calculate the loss, and whose responsibility those actions were. 
No agreement could be reached on this point, and so SF asked for an Ombudsman to 
review this complaint  and its been passed to me to consider further and issue a Decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SF accept theyve caused a delay in the transfer of Mr Gs funds to BI. But there appears to 
be some conflicting information regarding when SF think the transfer should have been 
made  so Ill address that point first. 
SF initially provided a suggested timeframe within which the funds transfer should have 
completed, had they acted promptly after receiving the ORIGO request on 25 January 2023. 
Allowing ten working days to send the necessary forms to Mr G, two days for him to 
respond, and a further ten days to then process the transfer, they concluded that the transfer 
should have taken place on 24 February 2023.
However, after our Investigator issued his View, SF confirmed (both to Mr G and separately 
to our Investigator) theyd be looking to calculate his potential investment loss on the 
assumption his transfer should have taken place on 1 February 2023.
The electronic ORIGO system was put in place to speed up pension transfers. Here, SF 
already knew the value of Mr Gs pension, as it had reached maturity in December 2022. All 
that essentially needed to be done was to seek Mr Gs written authority to the transfer, and 
then send the funds. Each separate step in that process would or should have taken less 
than ten working days. So, in the circumstances, I think SFs offer to calculate the loss based 
on the earlier funds transfer date of 1 February 2023 is a fair one  and this is the date Ill 
use in my redress calculations below. .  
What should SF do now, to rectify the effects of their transfer delay
Usually, when this Service concludes a business has caused a delay in transferring a 
pension sum to another provider, we expect that business to take steps to put things right. 
And the onus is on the business to take those necessary steps  after all, its the business 
thats caused the delay. But in the course of exchanges between Mr G and SF whilst his 
complaint was being considered by us, SF told Mr G hed have to approach BI to obtain the 
necessary information to allow SF to calculate if hed suffered any investment loss with 
them. They said it wasnt their process to make such enquiries.
Our Investigator acknowledged it wasnt for this Service to tell SF whether their processes 
were fair but did conclude it wasnt fair Mr G was being asked to make these enquiries in 
these circumstances - and I agree. Here, SF have admitted causing a delay in transferring 
Mr Gs pension. That delay may have caused him an investment loss once BI were able to 
invest his funds. 
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable that Mr G should be put to the trouble of obtaining the 
necessary information from BI to allow SF to calculate if he has indeed suffered an 
investment loss. 
SF has now told us theyve reached out to BI to obtain information to calculate if theres 
been an investment loss. We havent been told what precisely SF has asked BI for and so, 
for completeness, Ill set out below the redress calculation method  mirroring our usual 
approach in complaints like this  that Id like SF to follow in assessing potential loss here.  Compensation already paid by SF
SF have paid an extra £655.17 to BI as compensation for the delay in making the transfer  
calculated at 2% per annum of the sum transferred, for the period between 30 December 
2022 and 25 May 2023 (the day the funds were received by BI). However, I dont think this is 
the appropriate way to calculate loss of investment redress. 
But, mirroring our Investigators comments, its not fair SF should pay redress compensation 
twice. So, SF will need to deduct the sum theyve paid  £655.17  from the revised loss 
calculation amount (assuming there is found to be a loss) before making payment. 
Further delays caused by BI not being aware of Mr Gs LTA information.
Echoing our Investigators conclusion, I dont hold SF responsible for any delays or fund 
losses beyond 25 May 2023. Ive seen SF included the LTA information on the ORIGO case 
notes system, which should have been available for BI to see. I dont know why BI didnt see 
this information, but that isnt something I need to, or am able to consider as part of this 
complaint. What I can say is I think SF did what they shouldve done when supplying Mr Gs 
LTA information to BI, and I dont hold them responsible for any loss or inconvenience 
caused by any further delays after theyd transferred Mr Gs funds to BI on 25 May 2023.
Distress and Inconvenience
SF have now paid £500 D&I to Mr G to compensate for the effect of their mistakes. I note 
however that Mr G has suggested SF pay him up to £2,000 D&I. 
A D&I award is not meant to act as a punishment to a business where theyve made a 
mistake. And our role isnt to punish businesses either. Putting a value on distress isnt an 
exact science  similar acts can affect individuals very differently. That said, the awards this 
Service makes are fairly modest (guidance relating to these can be found on our website). 
And given this, I think £500 is a fair representation of the distress and inconvenience Mr G 
undoubtedly experienced, and so I wont be asking SF to increase this sum.
Putting things right
I need to put Mr G back into the position he would have been in  or as close to that position 
as possible  had SF transferred his pension funds to BI when I think they shouldve done. 
And as Ive set out above, I think that transfer shouldve taken place on 1 February 2023. 
Any loss Mr G has suffered should be determined by SF obtaining the notional value of the 
pension from BI on the basis Mr Gs funds of £106,000.03 had been invested in the Evelyn 
Growth Portfolio Clean Account (the fund Mr G did invest his pension in once the transfer 
had completed) after 1 February 2023, and subtracting the current value of the pension from 
this notional value. 
If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable. But if the answer is 
positive, theres a loss and redress is payable  although £655.17 must be deducted from 
this sum before any redress is paid, as explained above.
The resulting compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Gs pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr G has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement, presumed to be 
20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Ltd and require them 
to compensate him using the methodology set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman