DRN-1720136
The complaint
Mr L complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) failed to take responsibility 
for a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy. He says he was also given incorrect 
information when he called to discuss it. 
Background
Mr L has a home insurance policy, underwritten by RSA. This includes legal expenses 
insurance cover which is underwritten by another insurer (D).
Mr L made a claim under the legal expenses policy which was declined by D. So he 
contacted RSA for further assistance. RSA referred him to a firm of solicitors (A), as it said A 
dealt with claims under the policy. This was incorrect. RSA said the error occurred because 
A deal with the legal expenses claims under other RSA policies. 
It appears A dealt with the claim for two months before realising that Mr L had been referred 
to them in error. 
RSA acknowledges that it made a mistake. And its offered Mr L £50 compensation to put 
things right. It also accepts it took too long to dealt with Mr Ls complaint. And its offered a 
further £50 compensation for this. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said 
RSA should take responsibility for the legal expenses policy. But RSA refused to discuss it 
or his claim. He says he pays his premiums to RSA and he didnt given consent for it to 
subcontract part of his policy to D. 
Our investigator upheld part of the complaint. She felt £50 didnt address the amount of 
inconvenience caused to Mr L when he spent two months pursuing a claim with the wrong 
business. She asked RSA to pay £150 in total which it agreed to. But she didnt uphold the 
other aspects to the complaint. She said it was common for a legal expenses insurance 
policy to be underwritten separately and that RSA cant comment on a claim its not 
responsible for. 
As Mr L didnt accept what our investigator said, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Id like to make it clear from the outset that we cant hold RSA responsible for a section of 
the policy it doesnt underwrite or administer. As our investigator explained, its common for 
there to be more than one underwriter involved when a policy is made up of different 
insurances. So when a complaint is raised, we need to ensure its directed to the responsible 
party. I appreciate Mr L feels his policy is with RSA and thats who he pays his premiums to and 
that he didnt give consent for RSA to subcontract part of his policy to another insurer. But as 
RSA only underwrite the buildings and contents cover, these are the only claims decisions it 
would be responsible for. And I wouldnt expect it to take responsibility for any other sections 
or provide any comments on the decision made by another insurer.
Im mindful that Mr L didnt take this policy out with RSA directly. I can see its branded with 
the name of an insurance intermediary. So I dont think Mr L was misled by RSA that it was 
solely provided by it. Its for the intermediary to provide details of the policy and who 
underwriters which sections. And they wouldnt need Mr Ls consent to use different 
underwriters. If Mr L wasnt happy with the policy, he didnt have to take it out.
So whilst Ive taken into account all the comments Mr L has made in respect to his complaint 
about RSA, I wont be addressing them all. Thats because the is the only part of this 
complaint that RSA are responsible for relates to the incorrect information it gave about A.
Its not in dispute that RSA signposted Mr L to A incorrectly. And whilst its not RSAs fault 
that A took two months to realise they shouldnt be dealing with the claim, Im satisfied these 
consequences were as a result of RSAs actions. So I think it needs to put things right. 
I agree with our investigator that £50 seems low, taking into account the inconvenience this 
caused. So I think her suggestion to increase compensation to £150 is fair. This includes the 
£100 already offered by RSA in their final response to the complaint.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and direct Royal & Sun Alliance to pay £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr L as a result of providing him with incorrect information. If 
RSA has already paid the £100 initially offered, it only needs to pay the additional £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman