DRN-3340283
The complaint
Miss B complains that CarCashPoint Limited trading as Logbook Loans NI (Carcash) 
wouldnt agree to her payment proposals.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss B took a logbook loan of £1,484.96 from Carcash. The APR was 
294.47% and the total repayable was £6,297.72 to be paid over 156 weeks - £40.37 per 
week. In August 2020, Carcash agreed a two-month payment holiday. And then after that, 
Carcash agreed to accept reduced monthly payments of £100 for a further two months  
because Miss B was in financial difficulty. Miss B paid the £100 per month and continued to 
do so, but this meant the arrears built up. The arrears as at 5 March 2021 were £659.67. On 
30 April 2021, the arrears were £884.63 and Carcash asked for a payment of £500. On 25 
May 2021, the instalment arrears were £944.11 and Carcash asked for an immediate 
payment of £1,125, to include also the recovery costs. Miss B paid the required amount and 
kept the car.
Miss B complained. She said that Carcash had acted unreasonably  she was in financial 
difficulty and they didnt support her. And then, they added unreasonable costs and fees to 
her account.
In April 2021, Carcash said Miss B had signed all the contractual documents at the time of 
taking the loan. And shed stated that she had received clear information and explanations 
when signing up. On 7 August 2020 Carcash had agreed a two-month payment holiday 
because of the impact of Covid-19. After that, at the end of August 2020, Carcash agreed to 
accept lower payments of £104.94 a month for two months. But that came to an end and in 
January 2021, they asked Miss B for her last three months bank statements so they could 
complete an income and expenditure assessment  to see if they could help further. These 
werent received and Miss B was asked several times again. Carcash said that in March 
2021, Miss B then sent in bank statements for one bank account  but Carcash said that she 
must have had other accounts and asked to see those also. They couldnt complete a proper 
income and expenditure assessment without that information, and on 8 April 2021 they 
instructed recovery agents to recover the car or the full balance owed.
Miss B brought her complaint to us and our investigator said Carcash acted fairly. He said 
the arrears continued to increase after January 2021  when the agreement to accept lower 
payments of £100 finished. Miss B had sent the statements for one bank account in March 
2021, but Carcash wanted to see her other bank statements also. By April 2021, the arrears 
were £800, but Carcash still tried to work with Miss B to try to find a way forward. Once Miss 
B sent in her other bank statements, Carcashs analysis of her income and expenditure was 
that she could afford to pay off some arrears of £500 and then continue with regular 
payments. But no payment was made and Carcash started recovery procedures. By 25 May 
2021, recovery costs were also added. This meant that by then, the arrears and costs were 
£1,656.48  so they then wanted a payment of £1,125 to stop the recovery process. Overall, 
he considered that Carcash acted fairly. 
Miss B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. She said that the 
costs added were unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B had told Carcash that she was in financial difficulty because of the pandemic. In such 
circumstances, businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty 
sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses like 
Carcash should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For 
example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments, or defer them, 
and allow customers more time to repay their debt.
So  Ive looked at Miss Bs complaint in the light of the FCAs guidance here.
Ive seen that Carcash gave Miss B a two-month payment deferral in August 2020  so that 
gave her the support she needed at that time. And then they agreed reduced payments of 
£104 a month for another two-month period ending in January 2021. So again  that must 
have been helpful to Miss B. But also, this meant that arrears were building up  and this 
had to be addressed at some stage  as it wasnt in anyones interest to let them get out of 
hand. 
In January 2021  Miss B asked if she could continue to pay £100 a month. I can then see 
that Carcash said they wanted to see if they could help Miss B, given that she told them she 
couldnt afford the payments. In these cases, its only reasonable that a business gets to 
understand a full picture of a customers circumstances to see if any reduced payment plan 
is viable from the point of view of both customer and the firm. Carcash wanted to see that 
any plan was affordable by Miss B, and that in due course there was a prospect that 
payments could be increased again. Its a two-way street where Carcash wanted information 
from Miss B to see how they could help, but also to see that she could afford the payments.
So  Carcash wanted to see if they could agree to reduced payments. I can see that they 
first asked for affordability information in January 2021, and Miss B didnt send it. Then there 
were emails and contacts made on 5 March 2021, 9 March 2021, and 15 March 2021. I can 
see that each time, Carcash explained they needed the information to ensure that any 
repayment plan was affordable and sustainable  in other words, that it worked for both Miss 
B and Carcash. I think that was a reasonable way forward. For example, in their email dated 
15 March 2021, Carcash said to Miss B We appreciate your continued contact and the 
payments being made and we believe if would be in your best interests that we complete an 
Income and Expenditure Assessment with you, this is to ensure that any repayment plan that 
we agree is both sustainable and affordable, and that if does not affect your ability to
pay your priority bills. I can see at Miss N didnt agree that was the case  and that she felt 
pressurised by Carcash  but I didnt get any sense that Carcash were being unreasonable 
from what I could see.
Miss B sent in a list of outgoings on 12 March 2021; and statements from one bank. Carcash 
said that wasnt enough for them to make a full assessment  as the bank account showed 
there were other accounts  which they also needed to see to get a full picture of Miss Bs 
finances. Again, from what I could see, that was also a reasonable thing for Carcash to say  
because there were regular transfers to/from another bank account.
Miss B didnt send in another banks statement and Carcash asked for it again on 20 April 
2021 and 21 April 2021, together with their reasons. After that, Miss B sent in another banks 
statement. But Carcashs analysis was then that she could in fact afford to pay the instalments and also pay off some of the arrears. Carcash wrote on 30 April 2021 to advise 
her of that decision and said the arrears were then £882.63  and so asked Miss B to pay off 
£500 immediately and then resume her contractual payments of £40.37 a week. From what I 
could see on Miss Bs bank statements and given that Carcash had first asked for the 
information in January 2021 (three months before), I dont think that was an unreasonable 
thing for them to ask.
Miss B made one more payment of £100 on 30 April 2021 and then nothing else. And so  
then Carcash recommenced recovery processes on 25 May 2021  and it was then that 
Miss B contacted Carcash again. But by then, recovery costs had been incurred and so Miss 
B was liable to pay them. Carcash told her on that day that arrears and costs were 
£1,656.48  and so by then, they said they wanted £1,125 immediately to stop the recovery 
of the car. I think that given that Miss B hadnt been in touch with Carcash since 30 April 
2021, and hadnt paid the £500 requested, that was also a reasonable thing for Carcash to 
do under the circumstances.
Miss B then paid in sufficient to retain the car. Since then Miss B has been making payments 
and Carcash told us in February 2022 that the arrears were £151.02  so things do seem to 
have improved for Miss B. 
Miss B has said to us that she thinks the added costs are unreasonable. I looked at the 
credit agreement that Miss B signed in April 2019  and it says you must pay us any 
reasonable expenses and costs we may incur in taking other steps to enforce our rights 
against you under this loan agreementincluding those incurred by us in selling the 
vehicle And so  Carcash were entitled to charge reasonable recovery costs. We dont 
provide an audit service, nor can we say in our decision what is reasonable or not. But Ive 
looked at Miss Bs statement and I didnt see anything which suggested this to be the case. 
The loan agreement also says that a charge of £6 would be charged for each missed 
payment  and I can see these were debited to Miss Bs account also. So for me, the costs 
dont seem unreasonable and Carcash had the right to add them to Miss Bs account.
I can accept that Miss B had been through a difficult time and feels strongly about her 
complaint. And so, she will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Carcash 
to do anything here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman