DRN-1901178
The complaint
Mr H says Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt pay him enough for his stolen car 
and its contents when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He said that caused 
him anxiety and stress.  
What happened
Advantage offered Mr H £13,860 for his car. Having looked at similar cars for sale, he 
believed it was worth at least £16,000 and said he wouldnt be able to replace it for less. 
Advantage said it had relied on the valuations in the national trade guides for the car and its 
extras and had offered Mr H the top trade guide valuation. Its engineer had found three cars 
he thought were similar to Mr Hs car, all priced around the sum Advantage had offered him. 
Mr H said the engineers examples were for an inferior model. He produced examples of two 
cars that were very similar to his, advertised at £15,950, plus other cars he thought were 
comparable, at higher advertised prices. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint. He checked the trade guide 
valuations and thought Advantage had made Mr H a fair offer based on them. He said the 
cars rear entertainment centre didnt make a difference to the cars value, according to the 
guides. And he didnt think the adverts Mr H had found were persuasive. He said the 
advertised prices were open to negotiation and noted that most of the cars had lower 
mileage than Mr Hs car. 
The investigator thought Advantage should pay Mr H a sum towards the CDs and DVDs that 
were in the car when it was stolen. Mr H estimated the items were worth £220, but as he 
couldnt produce receipts, the investigator thought it would be fair for Advantage to offer him 
£150 for them. It agreed to do that, but as Mr H remained unhappy with the cars valuation, 
the complaint was passed to me for review. 
Meanwhile, Mr H told us hed bought a new car that was similar to his stolen vehicle (but 
with higher mileage) and that hed had to pay over £18,000 for it from a dealership garage.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the comments Mr H has made, it seems he thinks the national trade guides are only 
meant for use by the motor trade. But they set out valuations that reflect the likely retail 
selling prices of cars. The valuations are based on extensive research, and we think relying 
on them is generally the fairest way to establish what a cars market value is likely to be.
In this case, Advantage relied on the guides, and weve been able to confirm that it used the 
correct valuations. Mr H says the adverts Advantage considered in addition to the guides 
were for cars of a lower specification than his car. We asked Advantage about that, as the 
adverts didnt seem to be for the SE model. It said it was unable to revisit the adverts, given 
the time that had elapsed. But it said the specifications for the SE model would have pulled 
through to the valuations set out in the trade guides, which I think was a fair point.
 
We dont normally attach much weight to adverts, as the investigator has already pointed 
out. They reflect asking prices, so theyre open to negotiation. And theres often a huge 
variation in the prices shown for cars that seem to be very similar in most respects. I think 
the adverts Advantage found (showing cars that didnt have the SE specification, and were 
on sale for under £14,000) are unlikely to reflect the prices those cars were sold for. 
Mr H found many adverts for the SE model, at prices between £16,000 and £24,000. I think 
that shows the range of advertised prices that buyers are often faced with for cars that seem  
to be similar. In my opinion, asking prices are influenced by relatively small differences 
between cars. Prices vary between dealerships - and dealerships will normally charge more 
than private sellers. But all advertised prices are open to negotiation, so I dont think they 
can usually be relied on as an alternative to the trade guide valuations.  
I can see why Mr H thinks he should have been offered more for his car, especially as he 
paid over £18,000 for a replacement. But we dont know what the dealerships margin on the 
sale was, or whether there were features in the car that Mr H was prepared to pay more for.   
Taking everything into account, in my opinion, it wasnt unreasonable for Advantage to offer 
Mr H £13,860. And I think it acted reasonably in agreeing to pay him £150 towards the cost 
of the items that were stolen with the car. 
Mr H says hes found the whole experience stressful, which I think is understandable. Having 
the car stolen would have been stressful enough on its own, but it seems Mr H was in 
hospital at the time, which would have made matters worse. And he then disagreed with 
Advantage about the settlement for the car, so he was involved in a valuation dispute. 
I have no doubt that Mr H has found the situation distressing and inconvenient. But I can 
only award compensation if I think a business has caused the distress and inconvenience by 
acting unreasonably. I dont think Advantage has done that, so in my opinion it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to settle this complaint by paying Mr H £150 for the items stolen with 
the car, as it has agreed to do.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr H £150 towards the cost of items stolen with the car. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman