DRN-3229615
The complaint
Ms V complains Barclays Bank UK Plc failed to tell her what the impact of missing mortgage 
payments would be on her credit file. And shes been unable to get a bigger mortgage 
because of her credit record.
What happened
Ms V took out a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK Plc in around 2010. Due to ill health Ms V 
couldnt work for a time and couldnt pay her contractual monthly mortgage payments 
(CMP). She says she agreed a payment holiday with Barclays; and, after the payment 
holiday ended, she agreed an arrangement to pay with Barclays. 
Ms V says she met all the payments she arranged to make. But Barclays reported missed 
payments to credit reference agencies (CRAs) until shed paid off all the arrears in around 
April 2019. Ms V thinks this has affected her ability to get a bigger mortgage and move to a 
larger property to accommodate her family.
Ms Vs unhappy Barclays didnt explain she would have to make up the payments shed 
deferred during the payment holiday once it had come to an end or that theyd report them 
as missed payments. She says Barclays didnt tell her either that theyd report missed 
payments during the arrangement she came to with Barclays afterwards. Ms V says if shed 
known that she wouldnt be able to get a bigger mortgage later because of her credit file 
entries, she would have sold her property at the time she fell ill.
Ms V wrote to Barclays in February 2021 with some proposals about how they might be able 
to remove the CRA entries and offer her a bigger mortgage. She was unhappy with Barclays 
response, which she felt didnt address her letter in full, so she brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the history of Ms Vs mortgage account. He didnt think Barclays 
had done anything wrong and didnt uphold Ms Vs complaint. Since Ms V didnt agree, Ive 
reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the ill health Ms V experienced and her difficult personal 
circumstances. I can understand the problems shes faced in borrowing enough to move to a 
larger property to accommodate her family have caused her distress.
Ms Vs made some suggestions about how CRA reporting should work. I only have the 
power to look into her individual complaint. Ms V would need to raise her wider concerns 
with the regulator.
Unfortunately, Barclays havent been able to provide all the documents relating to Ms Vs 
mortgage account. But Im satisfied Ive got enough information from the parties to come to a 
decision thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Vs complaint.
Ms Vs complaint focuses on the information Barclays gave her about the impact on her 
credit file of entering into arrangements to pay. But I think its helpful to mention some 
background information for context.
I havent seen any record Ms V let Barclays know about her ill-health at the time she became 
unwell. But she did make them aware when she was unemployed and that her income was 
stretched when she had to fund care for a family member. From what Ive seen, Barclays 
engaged with Ms V to help her when she was in financial difficulties as Id expect them to 
have done, whether or not shed told them she was unwell. 
Barclays records show Ms V was in arrears with her mortgage payments for much of the 
time between August 2013 and May 2019 when she was finally able to pay them off. Ms V 
contacted Barclays about arrears showing on her credit file in May 2014. They told her then 
her credit file would show arrears and she had an arrangement in place to clear them. There 
was a period in 2014 when Ms V managed to get up to date. And Barclays offered her a new 
interest rate product at that time. But, unfortunately, she lost her job later that year and built 
up arrears during the early part of 2015. 
In early 2015 Ms V asked Barclays for a payment holiday. Barclays explained her mortgage 
contract didnt allow for that, but they provided Ms V with their information pack about 
financial difficulties, discussed her financial situation with her and referred her to 
independent organisations that could provide her with financial advice (IFAs). 
In March 2015 Barclays let Ms V know the consequences of being in arrears included 
reporting them to CRAs, and they reminded her of this in April, June and July. 
Ms V found work in April 2015. From around the end of July 2015 an arrangement was 
agreed under which Ms V paid her CMP and an additional amount towards the arrears. 
Unfortunately, according to Barclays records, in October 2015 Ms V took on additional 
outgoings to fund care for a relative making the mortgage unaffordable. She wasnt able to 
keep up with the payments under the arrangement and agreed with Barclays to make 
underpayments for a time.
In September 2016 Barclays extended the term of Ms Vs mortgage and they agreed she 
could pay off the arrears over 60 months. Barclays wrote to Ms V confirming the term 
extension. The letter set out in terms I think were clear, fair and not misleading that CRAs 
will record additional information on a customers credit file when any formal repayment 
arrangement is agreed and the account is in arrears resulting from missed payments. 
Ms V asked about re-mortgaging in May 2018 and in June Ms V asked Barclays whether 
they could make a goodwill adjustment to her credit file. They explained they couldnt do that 
as they hadnt made an error in reporting. But she could contact the CRAs to discuss the 
possibility of adding a correction notice to her files. Barclays offered her a new interest rate 
product in August that year. And by May 2019 Ms V had paid off the arrears - her credit file 
reflects that.
Ms Vs concerned about the information Barclays gave her in 2015 about the impact of the 
arrears on her credit file. Looking at what happened, I think Ms V knew in 2014 that being in 
arrears would adversely impact her credit file. Barclays reminded her about that several 
times in 2015 after shed asked about a payment holiday, and again in 2016. Ms V says 
Barclays didnt tell her the records would stay on her credit file for six years or warn her 
about the impact on getting a bigger mortgage further down the line. But I dont think Barclays obligations extended that far. I think they did enough to alert Ms V the arrears 
would impact her credit file and as to how she could access independent financial advice to 
discuss her options.
Even if Ms V had been aware, in 2015, that the entries on her credit file would remain there 
for six years, I cant reasonably say that Ms V would have been in any better position. She 
already had missed payments on her file because of earlier arrears. I cant reasonably 
conclude Ms C would have managed to sell her property quickly enough to avoid further 
adverse entries being recorded  thats too speculative. And, whilst lenders take credit 
records into account in reaching their lending decisions, their lending criteria are wider than 
that  so its not clear that, even if her credit record had fewer entries, she would have got 
the borrowing she is looking for now, or that her credit file is the only thing preventing that.
Barclays have a duty to report accurate information to credit reference agencies. Its 
reasonable for them to have told Ms V they cant remove entries on a goodwill basis. From 
the information available to me, Im satisfied the entries fairly reflect the position on Ms Vs 
mortgage account at the time Barclays reported them.
Ms V made some proposals to Barclays in her February 2021 letter and expressed 
dissatisfaction about how they reported her arrears. Barclays reasonably responded as if 
shed complained. Ms V was unhappy with their response which she felt hadnt addressed all 
the points shed raised. Generally, this service doesnt consider complaints about complaint 
handling, so I wont make any findings about that. I appreciate Ms Vs letter set out some 
proposals about the basis on which Barclays might agree to lend her more. Barclays are 
entitled to make commercial decisions about who to lend to, so I dont interfere in that. But 
Id expect Barclays to engage in discussions with Ms V as their customer, so if there are 
issues Ms V would still like to talk to them about, they should respond. 
I am sympathetic to Ms Vs situation. She might find it helpful to seek further independent 
financial advice about her options going forward. But, having considered things carefully, I 
dont think Barclays have done anything wrong here. I know it will be disappointing for Ms V, 
but I dont uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman