The Complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has removed his access to the 
online portal through which hed previously used to view the value of his pension, track its 
performance and make changes himself.  As a result, he hasnt been able to move his funds 
around to maintain performance and so believes he has lost out financially.
What happened
Mr S started his pension in October 2002 through his employer. At that time a different 
business which was later acquired by Aviva was responsible for the administration of his 
pension. In 2017 when Aviva took over the previous business it removed the online portal 
that gave its customers access to information about their pension and also allowed them to 
manage it in the way they wanted.
When Aviva investigated Mr S complaint it recognised how not having access to his pension 
was frustrating S and assured him that it was doing what it could to set up a new online 
facility which would provide all the access Mr S previously had. However, to date this hasnt 
happened. It also explained that accessing this facility was an additional service rather than 
something set out in the terms and conditions of the pension policy. It also clarified that Mr S 
could make changes to his pension over the telephone whenever he wanted. 
However, it did accept that it hadnt dealt with his complaint in a timely manner and so 
offered Mr S £250 in recognition of this.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld but only 
in part. While he understood Mr S position he felt the decision to close the online portal was 
a commercial one and therefore wasnt one which this Service could challenge. He also 
explained he wasnt able to direct Aviva to set up a new online portal as Mr S had stated he 
wanted. He also felt that as Mr S could still mange his pension over the telephone he didnt 
think Aviva was responsible for any potential loss Mr S incurred.
However, he wasnt satisfied Aviva had dealt with the complaint effectively and also hadnt 
managed Mr S expectation very well in relation to when a new online facility would be up 
and running. So for this reason he felt the compensation Aviva had offered should be 
increased to £500.
Mr S didnt agree with the assessment. He didnt agree the decision to close the previous 
online portal and to not set up a new one was a commercial decision. He was unhappy that 
Aviva had repeatedly confirmed a commitment to provide the online service but then renege 
on this which he felt was unfair and prejudicial. He also made the point that the online 
access was a standard feature of managing a pension fund and this service had been in 
place for fifteen years. He stated there had been no mention of a material change to the 
terms and conditions in relation to online access in the details provided when Aviva acquired 
DRN-1862923the previous business. He also pointed out that using the telephone to manage his fund is 
impractical and the online access was the sole means of practically and reliably tracking 
daily fund valuations.
Aviva also didnt agree with the assessment as it didnt feel the increase in the compensation 
was reasonable or appropriate. It remained of the view that providing the online access to 
the pension was entirely at its discretion and not part of the terms and conditions of the 
policy. It clarified that following the closure of the previous online portal it didnt suggest a 
replacement online service would be made available in the near future although this does 
remain its intention. But it feels its messaging of being able to provide a timescale for this 
and when one would be in place has always been consistent. It also said it isnt able to 
proactively provide customers with regular updates for ongoing IT investigations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mr S frustration at this facility being removed and agree that online access 
to his pension is an important facility. And I urge Aviva to continue to endeavour to set up a 
new online portal for Mr S and its other customers.
However, I cant direct Aviva to rectify this even though I think it should. Its not unreasonable 
the online portal linked to the previous business was deactivated and that is a commercial 
decision, even though Mr S feels it isnt, and therefore is one which this Service cant 
interfere with.
However, I do think the length of time Aviva has been working on this is unreasonable and it 
hasnt provided any valid reason why it has taken this long and still isnt resolved. But due to 
the remit of this Service in order to recognise this I can only award a modest financial sum.
I know Aviva has stated the messaging about this issue has been consistent and that it 
hasnt committed to providing this type of facility in the near future, but from the information I 
have seen I disagree.
I have seen the following pieces of communication between Aviva and Mr S that has taken 
place in relation to this matter. Most are taken from screen shots showing the online 
communication with Mr S and while some of them dont show a date I have no reason to 
think they are in relation to a different matter.
In one piece of communication Mr S received a message from Aviva regarding 
resetting his password. It stated youre one step away from accessing Aviva account 
online. 
In the notification of closure of the portal in 2017 the communication from Aviva 
states that it is working on a new online offering and it will be back in touch about this 
soon.
In another response acknowledging the problem Mr S was facing Aviva states it is 
constantly working on making more policies available online and as soon as this 
policy becomes eligible it will be in touch.
Ive also seen a couple of requests from Aviva for Mr S to log onto the Aviva platform 
as that produces data records which Avivas IT department needed to enable it to 
work on the problem.
Another response states that Aviva is continuing to investigate to identify the root of 
the problem.Then in another response Aviva states the site maintenance team have made
progress in identifying the cause of the error but needs more information.
In the final response letter dated March 2019 it states it is pleased to confirm we
have now identified the cause of the error and the IT team are working on a fix.
This message is reiterated in a letter from Aviva to Mr S in April 2019.
Given this information I can understand why Mr S felt the error would be fixed fairly soon and 
I cant see anywhere that Aviva made it clear that resolving this matter would take two or 
three years or may never in fact happen. By asking Mr S for further information about the 
problem and informing him that the IT department was continuing to look into the matter, and 
had indeed identified the issues, its not unreasonable that Mr S was under the impression 
that the matter would soon be resolved. So for this reason I agree that the initial offer of 
£250 falls short of the impact on Mr S of the problem and doesnt take account of the 
confusing communications to him and the ambiguous communication of timescales. And 
think the total compensation to be paid to Mr S should be £500.
I know Mr S feels Aviva should be responsible for any loss he has incurred by not being able 
to manage and moved his funds in the way he wanted to ensure healthy performance. But 
Mr S has been able to do all of this via the telephone if he really wanted to. I appreciate this 
isnt very convenient or practical over the long term however the fact remains that there was 
and still is another way of Mr S doing what he wants to his pension. Therefore, it isnt 
reasonable for me to hold Aviva responsible for any loss he may have incurred. I would 
expect any person to mitigate their loss in a situation like this I cant see Mr S has done this 
in this situation.
I appreciate my findings will be disappointing to both parties. I know Mr S wants Aviva to do 
more to recognise the fact he hasnt had online access to the management of his pension 
fund or a long time. And I know Aviva will remain of the view that the increase in the award is 
unreasonable. But I hope I have made it clear why I cant ask Aviva to do everything Mr S 
wants and can really only recognise this with a financial award and why this award needs to 
be increased.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr S a total of £500 in recognition of the delays 
in addressing him complaint and for not managing his expectation effectively.
My final decision
My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld in part. Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited should pay Mr S redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman