DRN-2687735
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the decision of Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to increase 
the price it quoted to him for home insurance after it found a record made by his previous 
insurer that related to his fence being damaged in a storm.
What happened
Mr N obtained a quote for home insurance from Admiral via an on-line comparison site for a 
premium of £134.20. In response to a question about whether he had made any home 
insurance claims or suffered any losses in the last 5 years, Mr N responded that he had not.
Admiral has explained that it periodically checks for differences between the details that 
have been provided by a consumer when seeking a quote on-line, compared to the details it 
has available from other databases. In this case, Admiral checked the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE), which is a shared record of insurance claims and incidents. 
It found a record on CUE relating to storm damage to Mr Ns fence which had been added 
by Mr Ns previous insurer (which I will refer to as insurer X). Taking into account this 
information, Admiral increased its quoted price to Mr N to £159.02.
Mr N was unhappy about the price increase, saying that Admiral had treated him differently 
and unfairly. His view was that Admiral had misconstrued the information it had found on 
CUE.
In response Admiral stated that, whilst the CUE record showed that insurer X had not paid 
any sum in respect of the fence damage, it had still taken this incident into account when 
quoting for cover because there had been an intent to claim. Admiral explained that based 
on the data available to it, incidents such as the one recorded on CUE lead to an increased 
risk that a claim will be made in the future. It said it would only be able to quote an insurance 
price to Mr N without taking into account this information recorded on CUE if Mr N were able 
to provide evidence from insurer X that the information had been removed from CUE 
because it was a mistake.
Mr N subsequently obtained home insurance elsewhere, and he has stated that his new 
insurance does not take into account the fence damage record on CUE. However, he 
remained unhappy with Admirals actions, and brought a complaint to this service. Mr N 
states that Admiral should be required to treat all customers fairly, apologise to him, and 
compensate him for distress caused.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She agreed that the underwriting evidence 
submitted by Admiral showed that its quote had increased due to the information recorded 
on CUE by insurer X. But her view was that Admiral had acted fairly when using the 
information on CUE to calculate its insurance quote.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators assessment. He explained that he had contacted both 
Admiral and insurer X to express his dissatisfaction with the record showing on CUE relating 
to the fence damage. Mr N has highlighted that his current insurer has not increased its 
premium due to this record. He has stated that he is not complaining about Admirals pricing 
policies, but his dissatisfaction stems from Admirals decision to take into account the record 
on CUE. Mr N has asked if Admiral has followed good industry practice in this regard, and 
he has highlighted that taking into account the record on CUE led to his premium increasing 
by around 18%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At outset I should clarify that Mr N has brought a separate complaint to this service about the 
actions of insurer X when recording the fence damage on CUE. In this complaint, I am only 
considering the actions of Admiral.
Mr Ns key dissatisfaction is why Admiral chose to take into account the information recorded 
on CUE, leading to the premium on his insurance quote being increased. I acknowledge 
what he has said about his new insurer not taking into account the information held on CUE. 
However, I am not able to tell a business how it should price its insurance products. This is 
something which is down to each business discretion based on how it assesses risk, and 
then chooses to reflect that in the prices that it offers consumers.
Different insurers will look at risk in different ways, and they are able to do so. In considering 
this complaint, I must assess whether Admiral acted fairly and in a consistent manner with 
other customers when it increased the premium quote to Mr N upon discovering the 
information which is held on CUE.
Having looked at the underwriting evidence provided by Admiral, I am satisfied that it did act 
fairly when increasing the premium quote that it was offering Mr N. Admiral assessed the 
information which was held on CUE, and in my view it was entitled to do so. I am pleased 
that Mr N was able to obtain a quote from another insurer that was set at a price that he was 
willing to accept. But that doesnt mean that Admiral acted unreasonably when it increased 
the price that it offered home insurance cover to Mr N having looked at records on CUE.
I appreciate that Mr N is likely to be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint. 
However, my conclusion is that Admiral has acted fairly when offering cover to him for home 
insurance at the price that it did, and that it was able to take into account the CUE record 
when doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021. 
John Swain
Ombudsman