DRN-2349915
The complaint
Mr D complains that UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) charge for changing the address on his 
motor insurance policy was unfair.
What happened
Mr D had a car insurance policy with UKI which he took out over the phone in March 2019. 
In November 2019, Mr D contacted UKI to let them know that hed changed address. UKI 
accepted the change in address and told Mr D that this would increase his premium by 
around £21, and that hed incur an administration fee of £26.88.
Mr D complained to UKI. He said he was happy to pay the increase in premium, but he felt 
the administration fee was excessive as hed already been charged the increased premium 
for the change in his circumstances.  
UKI didnt uphold the complaint. They said that before Mr D had taken his policy out over the 
phone, the agent had told him that there would be an administration fee for cancelling or 
changing his policy. So, hed been aware of these charges before accepting the policy. They 
also said that they hadnt made a profit from the charges and they were only used to cover 
the cost of policy administration.
Mr D didnt agree. He felt that the administration fee was unfair, and the way the fees had 
been discussed in the call when hed taken out the policy was misleading.
 
So, Mr D asked this service to look into his complaint. He told us that he felt UKI had 
breached the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) by charging him the administration fee and 
caused him detriment in the way theyd explained the fees to him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought UKI had been 
clear and transparent in how theyd explained the fees when Mr D had taken out the policy. 
She also thought that as Mr D had asked the call handler if theyd be applicable should he 
change address  and this had been confirmed to him  that he was aware of the fees. 
She also said that it wasnt for us to fine UKI, and if Mr D was unhappy with their policies he 
could complain to the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Mr D didnt agree. He felt it was unfair for this clause to be included in the insurance contract 
which favoured UKI as the seller and that as a service we werent protecting consumers. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr D has told us that he feels UKI havent acted in-line with the CRA because the fee 
amount was unfair, and hed been told about the fees in the middle of a lot of other 
information  putting him at a disadvantage compared to UKI. 
The CRA says that under the general rules there is a requirement for contract terms and 
notices to be fair. However, a term or notice can be excluded from being assessed for 
fairness if it meets certain requirements. These include looking to see if the term is 
transparent - so is it in plain, understandable language, and if in writing, is it readable for the 
average consumer. And looking to see if the term is prominent - has it been brought to the 
consumers attention in such a way that an average consumer would be aware of it.           
So, I need to look at the information UKI provided to Mr D about the fees to see whether 
their terms are unfair and put him at a disadvantage.
I recognise Mr D feels that he was provided with a lot of information when he took out the 
policy over the phone, and that he felt the fees and charges were hidden within all the 
information provided as part of the call. However, based on the flow of the conversation 
between Mr D and the call handler throughout the call, I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Ive listened to the call when Mr D took out the policy, and whilst I agree he was provided 
with a lot of information, I dont think he was provided information in a misleading manner or 
a way that put him at a disadvantage.
I say this because at the start of the call, Mr D explained that he had already applied for a 
quote and the reason he was calling was to check if what hed input online was accurate.  
So, after checking Mr D was the right person, the call handler read back the information     
Mr D had input and the discussed the circumstances of the claims Mr D had declared and 
that the car was roadworthy. 
I also heard the call handler pause at the end of each different section and ask if Mr D was 
happy with what hed said. He also explained each of the individual costs Mr D had already 
included in quote and other options  which Mr D declined. He then summarised the cost of 
the policy based on what Mr D wanted, and before the policy had been put through on the 
system, the call handler explained the other fees that could be applicable. 
Furthermore, at the point in the call where the other fees were introduced, Mr D specifically 
asked if the administration fee would be payable if he changed address and the call handler 
confirmed it would be payable  unless the change was made within the first fourteen days. 
So, based on what I heard, Im satisfied that the call handler was clear and transparent in the 
information he provided, including the fees. As the call handler also checked Mr Ds 
understanding throughout the call when the information had been provided  and Mr D 
confirmed he understood - Im also satisfied that UKI werent misleading. 
I recognise that Mr D wasnt happy with the fees, and that he felt they were excessive - 
however he still chose to proceed with the policy after being given this information. And it 
wasnt until after the fees had been discussed that the call handler asked Mr D how he 
intended to pay for the policy. So, I cant reasonably say UKI put Mr D at a disadvantage, as 
he couldve chosen not to proceed with the policy at this point. 
I also acknowledge that Mr D may have felt overwhelmed at the time of the call as he 
mentioned hed been speaking to different insurers. But Ive also looked at the policy 
document Mr D received after the call took place, and I can see that on page 4 where it says 
what changes do I need to tell you about that it says quite clearly that Any change during the period of insurance may result in an additional or return of premium and may be subject 
to an administration fee and refers to general condition 4.
Looking at the general conditions, it clearly says that condition 4 is Administration fee.    
The condition then states, If you make any temporary or permanent changes to your policy 
during the year or request duplicate documentation, you may have to pay an administration 
fee as well as any additional premium and tells you to refer to the schedule for the actual 
fee amount. 
Ive also seen confirmation from the business that their administration fee for making 
amendments is £26.88 from 1 June 2017 and that this is automatically applied unless certain 
criteria is met i.e. changes within the first 14 days of a policy being taken out. In this case, 
Mr Ds amendment request didnt meet that criteria and therefore UKI took the payment.   
So, I cant reasonably say that UKI have acted unfairly by charging Mr D the administration 
fee. 
I acknowledge that Mr D feels we should act against UKI because he feels their terms are 
biased and theyre breaking the law. But were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont review a business policies or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between a business and their 
customer, so I can only look at Mr Ds case  not the effect UKIs terms have on consumers 
as a whole.
I recognise that Mr D feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I cant say UKI have done anything wrong. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman