DRN-3190659
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was misled about the terms of a training course and the finance 
provided to fund it. The course was provided by Menage Pantano Limited, which also 
introduced Mr J to the finance provider, which Ill call C. Ill refer to Menage Pantano Limited 
as NTC. Mr J is represented by his partner, Miss M.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr J enrolled in a three-year plumbing course to be provided by NTC. 
NTC has said that the course was designed so that the onus is on the student to be 
proactive and self-motivated. Students work in their own time, rather than following a college 
timetable.
At the same time Mr J took out a loan to finance the course. Under the terms of the loan 
agreement, Mr J was to make 43 monthly repayments of £180 each. The lender, C, paid 
NTC directly.
In or about August 2020 Mr J contacted NTC to say that he was having difficulty with the 
course. He said that he had dyslexia, he was suffering with his mental health, his father had 
been diagnosed with cancer and the Covid-19 pandemic meant that his finances were not 
good. He asked to cancel the course.
NTC responded to say that the course could not be cancelled. Whilst there had been a short 
cancellation period after Mr J agreed to enrol for the course, that had long since expired. I 
understand that C has agreed to accept much reduced monthly payments.
Mr J said that he had been told when he enrolled on the course that he could cancel at any 
time. And NTCs website said that it would consider cancellation in exceptional 
circumstances. Mr J referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She thought it more likely than not 
that Mr J had indeed been told that he could cancel the agreement at any time. She 
recommended that NTC end the training course for Mr J, arrange for the loan agreement to 
be cancelled and refund any payments he had made after August 2020.
NTC did not accept the investigators initial view of the case and asked that an ombudsman 
review it. It said that Mr J had been made aware of the cancellation provisions and that his 
request to cancel the course and the associated finance agreement appeared to have been 
driven by changes in his domestic circumstances. 
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. I accepted that Mr J would have had 
difficulty understanding the course and loan documentation but noted that Miss M was with 
him when he enrolled. I said however that the usual position is that a person is bound by his 
signature on a legal document, whether or not they understand that document. I thought the 
documentation  and in particular the provisions relating to cancellation  were clear. I was 
not persuaded that Mr J had been told he could cancel the course at any time. 
Miss M responded on Mr Js behalf. She said that NTC knew about Mr Js dyslexia and that 
he relied on what he was told about cancellation, rather than on the documentation. She said 
too that Mr J had had an operation soon after he enrolled for the course and so was not in a 
position to start it immediately; it was therefore not until after the cancellation period that he 
realised the course was not suitable for him. She said too that Mr J is not seeking a refund of 
fees he has already paid, only to be able to cancel the course with no further obligations.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear that I accept what Miss M has said about Mr Js operation in 
November 2019 and the complications following it. I also accept what she has said about his 
dyslexia. I mention those matters specifically because she has offered to provide further 
evidence of them. But, since I accept what she has told me, I do not need anything more. 
I accept too that Mr J told NTC about his dyslexia when he tried to cancel the course in or 
about August 2020. NTC says however that it did not know about it at the time Mr J enrolled 
for the course. 
Miss M says that she was present when Mr J enrolled but was not able to speak on his 
behalf. She would have been able to explain the paperwork to him, however, and to review it 
during the cancellation period. She has said too that Mr J knew he would not be able to start 
the course until January 2020, because of his operation. 
I am not persuaded that Mr J was told that he could cancel the course at any time. As I 
indicated in my provisional decision, that was at odds with what the documentation provided 
and with the basis of the agreement he had with NTC  namely, that he would pay the 
course fee and NTC would provide the course and materials. He could cancel without 
reason, but he had a limited time in which to do so.
I understand that Mr J feels that he cannot continue with the course, through no fault of his 
own, and he has my sympathy. I do however remain of the view that this is because of 
changes in his own circumstances and not because he was misled about the cancellation 
terms.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Menage Pantano Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Js complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman