DRN-3113935
The complaint
Mrs W complains that a business since acquired by Santander UK Plc gave her unsuitable 
investment advice in July 2000. 
What happened
Mrs W was 20 years old and living with her relatives in July 2000. Shed received the 
proceeds of a personal injury claim totalling £75,000. She took advice from Santander on 
how she should invest her money.  
The bank recommended she should invest a total of £53,600 split between an ISA and a 
bond. Her capital was used to purchase units in a pair of funds which invested in a variety of 
asset classes with a balanced outlook on risk. A small portion was set aside for emergencies 
and future expenditure, with the remainder deposited in cash savings accounts. 
Mrs W surrendered her investments at a small loss in 2006. 
In 2019 Mrs W complained, via a claims management company, that Santanders 
investment advice was unsuitable. She felt that for someone in her circumstances, the bank 
had advised her to invest too much of her money and take too great a risk with it.  
Santanders final response to this complaint explained that it felt the matter had been raised 
too late, outside of the time limits which apply. As Mrs W was unhappy with the banks 
response, she referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator gave the opinion that Mrs Ws complaint had been referred in time, and 
Santander accepted this view. The investigator went on to explain that, mindful of Mrs Ws 
circumstances, they didnt feel the banks advice was unsuitable. Whilst they acknowledged 
she was an inexperienced investor, our investigator wasnt persuaded Santander advised 
Mrs W to take a risk she couldnt afford, so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs W hasnt accepted our investigators view, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive understood it, Mrs Ws primary concern with the advice she received, is that as a 
novice investor, she was advised to invest too much of her money, and this exposed her to 
more risk than was suitable for her someone in circumstances. Ive thought very carefully 
about this, but ultimately, I dont think Santanders advice to her was unsuitable. Ill explain 
why. 
A persons capacity to tolerate risk when investing is dependent on their own personal 
circumstances. It is not necessarily the case that new investors should only be advised to 
take a small risk, whilst experienced investors can be advised to risk more. Likewise it does 
not necessarily follow that someone living on a high income can afford to invest more than 
someone living on a smaller income. Wealth and experience are factors to consider, but 
theyre by no means the only factors.
Santanders required to ensure that any advice it gives is suitable for its customers 
circumstances. So mindful of what Ive said above, Id expect the bank to have learnt what it 
could about Mrs W and the money she had to invest, before recommending how she should 
invest it. 
In Mrs Ws case, I can see Santander has learnt about her circumstances during a meeting. 
Its retained some of the paperwork relevant to this discussion. The paperwork confirms Mrs 
W was 20 years old and in receipt of £75,000. Whilst Mrs W was living on a relatively small 
income at the time, around £470 per month, her outgoings were also quite small as she was 
living with her relatives at the time. This meant she had around £260 of surplus income each 
month. The bank identified that Mrs W wanted to invest to grow her capital over the medium 
to long term. 
Ive thought very carefully about the funds Santander recommended for Mrs W. The 
paperwork names them as the Balanced Portfolio Growth Fund and the Managed Fund 
respectively. Ive had the opportunity to review fact sheets for the pair of these investments.  
And I can see that they both invested in a mix of UK and international equities, gilts and 
other fixed-interest securities. The managed fund also mentions that it contains property and 
cash deposits. Both funds aim to take a balanced risk in the pursuit of their shared 
investment goal, capital growth. On the face of it, these funds seem suited to Mrs Ws 
objective. 
Mrs W wasnt an experienced investor and willve likely been new to the concept of taking a 
risk with her money. But the evidence in this case suggests some explanation of the risks is 
likely to have taken place. For example, the sales paperwork and supporting brochures 
make it clear that returns on Mrs Ws investments arent guaranteed. It makes a clear 
distinction between the portion of Mrs Ws money that was capital secure and capital 
variable. And Santanders recommendation letter suggests the bank discussed the risks of 
equity based investing, as well as the advantages of diversifying her holdings across a 
spread of asset classes.   
Im not persuaded that these investments represented more risk than Mrs W seemed able to 
take, mindful of her circumstances. The chosen funds offered a good degree of 
diversification. And the paperwork Ive seen persuades me sufficient disclosure of their risks 
is likely to have taken place. 
In her complaint, Mrs W has noted she was advised to invest a significant portion of the 
money awarded to her. Around 71% of it in total. I acknowledge this is a high proportion of 
the funds she had available. But Im not persuaded she lacked the capacity to risk this much 
of it. The money Mrs W had to invest was compensation for an injury shed sustained as a 
child. And whilst I understand Mrs Ws injury had a big impact on her, theres been no 
suggestion the injury harmed her employment prospects, such that the compensation was 
awarded in place of income shed lose out on. Ive also considered that, because she was 
fairly young, Mrs W wouldve had the opportunity to recoup any hypothetical losses through 
working until her retirement age. 
If thered been any suggestion that Mrs W was likely to need a portion of this money in her 
immediate future, Id expect Santander to have factored this into its recommendation. Across 
the paperwork in this case, I can see evidence of a back and forth conversation about Mrs 
Ws circumstances. And beyond the upcoming purchase of a vehicle, which money was set aside for, theres no suggestion that Mrs W needed to make use of any significant portion of 
the money in the short term. The paperwork suggests shed indicated she was willing and 
able to invest for at least five years. 
The banks notes show Mrs W was potentially becoming a student in the coming year. And 
that this would likely have an impact on her income. But theres no suggestion this was 
viewed as an impediment to investing. And we know that following the sale, Mrs W didnt 
need to make any withdrawals as a result of a change in her circumstances. So on balance, 
I think its likely that Santander understood Mrs Ws circumstances sufficiently to safely 
establish she had the capacity to invest as much as she did, for as long as the bank was 
recommending she should invest for.  
Having said that, I would expect Santander to have recommended Mrs W keep some money 
aside for emergencies, which I can see it did do. The bank advised Mrs W to keep £1,500 in 
reserve. This isnt a particularly large sum. But Ive considered that it amounted to more than 
six months worth of her stated outgoings. And this was at a time where, at least at that 
moment, she had surplus income of £260 per month which wouldve allowed her to save as 
well as supplement her lifestyle. So Im satisfied the banks not advised Mrs W to invest too 
much of her money. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Santander advised Mrs W to invest more than she could afford to 
risk. Theres no suggestion Mrs W needed, or was likely to need the money shed come into 
for her day to day living expenses. She was willing to invest it over the medium to long term 
in order to grow it for whatever purpose she could and put it to use later on in life. She was 
willing and able to take the level of risk necessary in order to meet that objective. Im 
therefore satisfied the advice Santander gave was suitable for Mrs W in light of those 
circumstances and objectives.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman