DRN-1717216
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent irresponsibly to him.
What happened
Mr C took out a total of seven loans with Mr Lender between October 2014 and December 
2018. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount No. of 
instalments
1 08.10.14 23.01.15 £200 1
2 31.01.18 12.04.18 £200 3
3 13.04.18 25.04.18 £250 6
4 25.04.18 09.06.18 £300 3
5 10.06.18 11.08.18 £490 5
6 13.08.18 10.12.18 £450 3
7 28.12.18 - £350 6
Mr C repaid the first six loans in full, but when he brought his complaint to us, a balance 
remained on the final loan.
Mr C believes that if Mr Lender had carried out adequate checks before lending, it would 
have realised that he couldnt afford the loans.
After Mr C complained to Mr Lender it offered to write off the remaining balance on loan 7 as 
a gesture of goodwill. Mr C wasnt satisfied with Mr Lenders offer, and brought his complaint 
to us. 
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, he thought 
that by loan 5, Mr C was showing signs that he was struggling to repay some of his previous 
loans and he thought there was a risk that Mr C would be unable to repay loan 5 or any 
subsequent loans sustainably. So he said Mr Lender should pay Mr C some compensation 
and make some amendments to his credit file.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators view. But it offered to do as hed said in relation 
to loans 6 and 7. Mr C didnt accept Mr Lenders offer and Mr Lender subsequently told us 
that it didnt believe that any of loans 5 to 7 should be upheld. 
Since the complaint wasnt resolved after the adjudicator issued his view, its been passed to 
me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether 
Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr Lenders told us about the checks that it carried out before agreeing to the loans. It asked 
Mr C for details of his income and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file. Ive seen a summary of those checks, and I dont think they showed anything that should have 
caused additional concerns to Mr Lender.
Im satisfied that the checks that Mr Lender did before making the first two loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr C needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared. Whats more, the gap between Mr C repaying loan 1 and 
taking out loan 2 was long enough that I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to treat him as 
a new borrower and to base its checks accordingly.
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
and his borrowing history with Mr Lender, I dont think it would have been proportionate for 
Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information that would have been needed to show 
that the lending was unsustainable when Mr C applied for loans 1 or 2.
Based on the income and expenditure figures that Mr C gave Mr Lender when he applied for 
loan 3, Id have expected Mr Lender to have some concerns about whether Mr C would be 
able to repay the loan sustainably. Mr C had deferred a capital repayment on loan 2. And 
although hed gone on to repay that loan in full, hed applied for loan 3 the next day. Based 
on the information Mr C provided about his income and expenditure, hed only have had a 
little over £70 left per month to meet any one-off or unexpected expenses after meeting his 
loan repayments and other monthly expenses. Whats more, loan 3 was due to be repaid 
over six months - a longer period than the previous loans. So Mr C was committing to 
sustain the payments for longer. 
I note, however, that Mr Cs declared expenses included a significant amount towards 
repaying existing loans, and I dont know how long Mr C would have had to keep those 
payments up for. We asked Mr C for copies of his bank statements and credit file when he 
brought his complaint to us. But he didnt provide his bank statements, or a full copy of his 
credit file, so I cant know what Mr Lender would have discovered if it had looked more 
closely at Mr Cs financial position when he applied for loan 3. And Im unable to say that it 
was wrong to give him that loan.
In the end, Mr C repaid loan 3 less than a fortnight after taking it out, but he then applied for 
loan 4 the next day. This pattern of repaying loans early and quickly taking out another loan 
can, in itself, be an indication that a borrower is having difficulty managing their finances. But 
the information Mr C gave Mr Lender about his income and expenditure suggested that hed 
be able to afford the repayments on loan 4 without undue difficulty. And I think, on balance, 
that at this stage, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr C for the 
amount of information that would have been needed to show that his borrowing was 
unsustainable.
Loan 5 was the fourth loan Mr C had applied to Mr Lender for in a little over four months. 
Over that time, the size of the loans had gradually increased, with loan 5 marking a 
significant step up from loan 4. From loan 2 onwards, there hadnt been a break of more 
than a day between Mr C paying off one loan and applying for the next. As Ive mentioned, 
Mr C had deferred a capital repayment on loan 2, and hed done this again on loan 4. And 
the information hed given about his monthly expenses when hed applied for the loans 
showed that Mr Lender was not the only lender that hed been borrowing from. So I think that 
at this point, the overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing should have suggested to Mr Lender 
that it was likely that Mr C was having significant problems managing his money, and was 
struggling to cover the hole in his finances left by repaying his previous loans. And I dont 
think Mr Lender should have agreed to make loans 5 onwards.In addition, looking at the overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing history, I think that by loan 7, 
Mr Lender ought reasonably to have concluded that further lending was likely to be 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. By then Mr C had been borrowing from Mr Lender 
without any significant break for around 11 months. Hed paid off some of his loans much 
earlier than planned, but had then applied to borrow again shortly afterwards. I think this 
pattern of borrowing suggested that Mr C was dependent on the loans, rather than borrowing 
to get over short-term financial situation
I think Mr C lost out because Mr Lender agreed to give him loan 7 because this loan had the 
effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him to continue to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. The number of 
loans hed taken, and the cumulative length of time he'd been borrowing from Mr Lender was 
likely to have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I don't think Mr Lender should have given loans 5 to 7 to Mr C. This means Mr Lender 
needs to pay Mr C some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to make loans 5 to 7 inclusive to Mr C. So 
Mr Lender should:
refund all the interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 5 and 6, and loan 7 if it has now 
been fully repaid.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
if loan 7 hasnt yet been fully repaid remove any interest and charges still outstanding 
on the loan and treat all the payments Mr C made towards this loan as payments 
towards the capital.
A. If reworking Mr Cs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr C effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Mr Lender should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement.
B. If reworking Mr Cs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Mr Lender can use the total refund for loans 5 to 7 (after the deduction of tax) to 
offset this.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file about loans 5 and 6
The number of loans taken by the time Mr C took out loan 7 means that any 
information recorded about that loan is adverse. So all entries about loan 7 should 
be removed from Mr Cs credit file once it has been fully repaid.HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr C a certificate, showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require PDL Finance Limited to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman