DRN-2829919
The complaint
Mr S complains as a director of H, a limited company, that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe
SE rejected its commercial insurance claim for damage to drains at its let property. 
What happened
In April 2019 a new tenant of the property declined to move in because of foul water coming
into the cellar. In May 2019 H made a claim to Liberty. It sent out drainage contractors to
repair the drains under the accidental damage cover in the policy. However the repair didnt
resolve the situation. Liberty sent out a loss adjuster to review the situation. However the
loss adjuster on speaking to a neighbour was told that water had been seeping into the cellar
of the property for two years, the previous tenant having reported it and the water was
pumped out. The loss adjuster obtained a statement from the neighbour and based on that
Liberty said the claim had arisen before the policy was taken out in November 2018. So it
wouldnt deal with the claim any further.
Mr S denied that there had been any previous problem with foul water coming into the cellar.
He obtained a statutory declaration from his co-director, who had managed the property at
the time, and said that the previous tenant hadnt reported such a problem. The cellar had a
sump pump installed due to the occasional rising of ground water. Liberty still declined to
proceed with the claim.
On referral to this service our investigator said that the witness statement wasnt sufficient to
show the claim arose before the policy began. She proposed that Liberty reconsider the
claim, including for lost rent.
Mr S replied that the work had been carried out and a new tenant in place since January
2020. He wished to claim a cash settlement and compensation.
Liberty asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that although Mr S had complained of
delay he had never made a complaint about the rejection of the claim, and H had in any
event failed to mitigate its loss.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that there was sufficient evidence now for Liberty 
to pay, rather than consider the claim. I said it should do so, in line with Mr Ss calculations. I 
also said it should pay compensation of £100.
Liberty accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S has accepted the decision except in respect of the compensation award which he 
believes should be increased:
to award him compensation for the inconvenience he personally suffered.
to require Liberty to pay exemplary damages as it may well serve as a preventative 
example to similar companies not to ignore complaints and to follow their own 
procedures.
to account for the fact that Liberty have made a misleading statement when it said that 
he hadnt complained about the rejection of the claim. He had done so and Liberty 
ignored that and failed to deal with that complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Firstly, but for the question of when the damage arose, I think it the damage clearly comes
under the accidental damage cover in the policy.
Libertys rejection of this claim arises out of a conversation the loss adjuster had with the
neighbour. It has obtained a statement from the said neighbour. But Ive noted that the
neighbour didnt say she saw the water coming in herself. She merely recited that the
previous tenant reported it and that on one occasion the police had been called and told her
there was water in the cellar. The previous tenant declined to make a statement. As there
was a sump pump installed there could well have been fresh water in the cellar from time to
time. But I think there is insufficient evidence that the damage to the drains arose before the
policy started. So I think that Liberty was wrong to reject the claim.
Our investigator asked Liberty to reconsider the claim, but I think theres sufficient evidence
for it to pay the claim. As the work has been done I think Liberty should pay a cash
settlement. Mr S says a new tenant was in place by 6 January 2020. I think that was a
reasonable time to get the drain repair done and to have the property cleaned and
decontaminated to the satisfaction of environmental health. So Liberty should pay loss of
rent from 18 April 2019 until 6 January 2020.
Mr S has also claimed for the deposit which he said H had to refund to the tenant who
moved out, thus depriving H of the opportunity to deduct any tenants damage payments. I
dont intend to award that, it was a decision for the directors of H to refund the whole deposit
and Ive seen no evidence that H made any loss in that respect.
Turning to compensation, H is a limited company and as such cant suffer distress. I cant
award the tenant compensation as I can only award it to the policyholder. I accept that the
directors of the company, particularly Mr S, were caused inconvenience. But I bear in mind
that as a director if the Landlord company, Mr S had to deal with the claim and any problems
that arose as part of running the company. I also bear in mind the actual cost of the work,
which was relatively small. I dont think I should award more than a nominal amount for any
inconvenience suffered. I propose to award £100. 
Taking Mr Ss points in turn, he will be aware that as a director of a limited company he has 
no personal liability. Equally as the property and the insurance is in the companys name any 
inconvenience caused by the claim lies in the inconvenience caused to the directors in 
dealing with the claim. My provisional findings above explained why I proposed to award 
£100.
This service acts as an alternative dispute resolution service to resolve complaints 
informally. I have no power to award exemplary damages.
In respect of Mr Ss complaint to Liberty he did raise in his letter of 2 August 2019 complaints 
relating to the delay and also about the decline of the claim (at that stage). The loss adjusters carried out a further review of the claim after that. There was a final response letter 
not sent directly by Liberty but by the claims management company for Liberty concerning 
the delays. But no formal response was given concerning the decline of the claim. However 
complaints handling by an insurer is not a regulated activity and as such I have no power to 
consider complaints about any failures in Libertys claims procedures.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
The settlement Liberty should pay is as follows:
Loss of rent 264 days @ £350 pcm £3,037.80
Council Tax 264 days pro rata £   741.78
Hs liability for the Councils drain
repair £   285.84
Main drain repairs  £   620.00
Total  £4,685.42
Liberty should add simple interest* at the rate of 8% per year from the dates the rent became
due or the invoices paid. Mr S should provide copies of the receipted invoices to Liberty.
Liberty should further pay compensation of £100.
I should add that it appears that H obtained a refund of the excess paid when the claim was 
turned down. For the avoidance of doubt Liberty is entitled to deduct any outstanding excess 
payment from its settlement.
My final decision
I require Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE to settle the claim and pay
compensation in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.
*Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax
from any interest paid. Should H request it, Liberty should provide it with a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, it can reclaim it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman