DRN-3356675
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs K say they bought timeshare memberships from a business, Business X, in 2005 
and 2006 with loans from First National Bank. GE Money has taken responsibility of some 
loans taken with First National Bank.
Mr and Mrs K said that when they took out the timeshare they were told that only members 
of the club would have access to the accommodation but this turned out to be untrue. This 
led to them having difficulties booking accommodation even with two or three years notice. 
So Mr and Mrs K said that Business X misrepresented to them at the time of sale the 
exclusivity and availability of the timeshare. Mr and Mrs K said that had they known what 
Business X said wasnt right, they would not have taken out the membership in the first 
place.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs K complained to GE Money. GE Money responded saying that the 2005 
loan appeared to have been cancelled shortly after it was taken out, and they have no record 
on file for the 2006 loan. But they did locate a loan account that was opened on 4 March 
2002, and another loan account that was opened in April 2002. Both of which were 
redeemed in 2003. GE Money has said that both the deposit and the proceeds of the loans 
werent paid to Business X, but to a different business, Business Y.
As the sale took place many years before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the 
complaint had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation 
Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that the loan proceeds had been paid to Business Y and not 
Business X, so it didnt think there were the right types of agreements in place for the CCA to 
apply to this complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 CCA had been brought too late, so 
they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs K responded to explain why they thought the complaint had been brought in 
time. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs K, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs K to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this case, as 
the supplier of the timeshare was Business X, but the loan proceeds went to a different 
business, Business Y, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ks 
claim under s.75 CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of the service 
(Business X) and the business that took the payment (Business Y). But Ive not gone on to 
make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right relationships in place 
for the claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs K said that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE 
Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would 
be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear 
however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs K may have to bring these claims 
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if 
GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Ks claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs K brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs K had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ks case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so 
even if we took the latest date they say they took a further loan, that is 2006. It was at that 
time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of 
Business X. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the 
loan agreement with First National Bank
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in 2006 at the absolute latest, so 
Mr and Mrs K had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE 
Money about their claim until 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So 
I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and 
Mrs K may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs K might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it 
is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that 
GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Mr and Mrs K have been very clear in the problems they have encountered with Business X 
and, if what they say is correct, I can understand their concerns. But for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it is the responsibility of GE Money to answer those concerns.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman