DRN-2439552
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with how St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) has dealt with a claim 
for damage to her bathroom. She is unhappy with the amount of compensation it has offered 
her and wants it to also pay for the replacement of her bath panel. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
St Andrews incorrectly sent Mrs T a schedule of works (SOW) which included 
replacing the floor tiles in the bathroom.  In previous correspondence, it had already 
advised Mrs T the damage to the floor tiles wouldnt be covered under the claim.  Its 
therefore understandable that Mrs T was confused by this new SOW. Im satisfied 
based on the evidence Ive seen this was down to human error. 
There have been delays in the claim and other mistakes have been made which has 
understandably caused Mrs T some frustration. 
St Andrews have offered Mrs T £500 compensation. Having reviewed everything, I 
think this is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the trouble and upset Mrs T has 
been caused, so I wont be asking it to increase this amount.    
Under a previous complaint at this service is was decided St Andrews Insurance Plc 
didnt have to replace the bath panel as the damage to it was caused by wear and 
tear.  Mrs T has said it has been removed up to six times in the course of this claim 
and is now damaged further. She thinks St Andrews should therefore pay to replace 
it. Ive seen photos of the damage to the bath panel however Im not persuaded the 
damage is wholly related to its removal. I think its more likely than not its removal has 
simply served to highlight the existing problems with it. I dont therefore think 
St Andrews need to include the cost of replacing the bath panel in this claim. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint against St Andrew's Insurance 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman