DRN-2932604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax threatened them with 
legal action over arrears on their mortgage, even though they were making their payments in 
full. And they say it wouldnt let them take a new interest rate until the arrears are cleared.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N have a mortgage with Halifax. Unfortunately they have experienced financial 
difficulty and the mortgage fell into arrears in around January 2019.
For most of 2019, Mr and Mrs N were unable to make any payments. They resumed making 
some payments in October 2019, but around the same time Halifax wrote to them saying it 
was starting the process of taking them to court.
In November 2019, the fixed rate on the mortgage came to an end and the mortgage moved 
on to the standard variable rate (SVR). Mr and Mrs N were able to make payments in 
November and December 2019.
Mr and Mrs N contacted Halifax and its solicitors. They explained that their circumstances 
had changed as Mr N now had a new job.
Mr and Mrs N also complained. They said that Halifax had not given them the chance to 
explain things before taking legal action, and had threatened to do so even though they had 
resumed payments. And they complained that it would not consider giving them a new 
interest rate until the arrears had been cleared  which they estimated would take five years 
to clear.
When Mr and Mrs N first complained, Halifax said it would consider their current 
circumstances in deciding whether to proceed with legal action. It said Mr and Mrs N had 
told it their property was on the market, and it didnt think it was appropriate to offer a new 
interest rate while it was up for sale or while the mortgage was in arrears.  
In December 2019, Halifax agreed to the possession proceedings being adjourned 
indefinitely. But in January 2020, its solicitors told Mr and Mrs N they were taking the case 
back to court. Halifax then agreed to put further legal action on hold while we considered the 
complaint, as long as Mr and Mrs N continued to maintain the monthly payments.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld, so Mr and Mrs N asked 
for it to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage was taken out in 2013, and unfortunately Mr and Mrs N have regularly 
experienced arrears since then. Arrears were capitalised in August 2018, and Mr and Mrs N 
then kept up with the mortgage for a few months. 
But in 2019, Mr and Mrs N again began to experience financial problems. Mr N is 
self-employed and in February 2019 he got in touch with Halifax to say his contract had 
come to an end. He was looking for permanent work without success, and they were 
considering selling the property. Halifax agreed not to collect any payments for two months.
In April 2019, Mr N told Halifax that he hadnt had any luck finding work and the property was 
now up for sale  though they would take it off the market if he found a job. Halifax agreed to 
put further action on hold pending the sale.
In May 2019, Halifax agreed to hold action until August pending sale of the property.
In June 2019, Mr N told Halifax theyd turned down an offer for the property as they didnt 
think it was a good enough offer. Mr N was still looking for work.
In August, Halifax told Mr N it couldnt put another hold on action, and said Mr and Mrs N 
should pay what they could each month.
In September, Mr N told Halifax he was still looking for work and they had reduced the 
propertys asking price. 
In October 2019, Halifax reviewed the account. It noted the mortgage wasnt being paid and 
the arrears were increasing, and there was no sign either of a sale of the property or of Mr N 
returning to work. So it decided to begin legal action to take possession of the property.
In November, Mr N contacted Halifax to say he had now found work. Mr and Mrs N resumed 
making the monthly payments, but werent able to contribute anything towards reducing the 
arrears. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable that Halifax moved towards legal 
action in late 2019 and early 2020. In 2019, Mr and Mrs N hadnt made their mortgage 
payments for seven months. Mr N hadnt been able to find other employment, and they 
hadnt been able to sell the property. In September, Mr N had agreed that the mortgage was 
no longer affordable.
In light of what was known at the time, in October 2019, its difficult to see what else could be 
done. Repossession should be a last resort. But no payment had been made for over six 
months and the arrears were over £20,000. Halifax had tried a payment arrangement to give 
Mr and Mrs N some breathing space but Mr and Mrs N hadnt been able to find a way to get 
things back on track. Mr N told Halifax that the most they could pay was £300 a month  
though the monthly payment was over £2,500.
While taking possession proceedings was, I dont doubt, difficult and distressing for 
Mr and Mrs N, Halifax also has a responsibility to step in before things go beyond the point 
of recovery. At that time Mr and Mrs N couldnt afford the mortgage, had no way of making 
payments and no prospect of doing so  and the longer the arrears built up, the worse 
Mr and Mrs Ns position would be. In all the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for 
Halifax to take possession proceedings at that time  or to add the solicitors charges to the 
mortgage balance.
As it turned out  though Halifax didnt know this until November  Mr N had found work and 
so their financial situation had improved. They resumed making the monthly payments in 
November 2019, and have continued to do so since.
However, Mr and Mrs N have not been able to contribute anything to the arrears, and so 
they remain at over £22,000. Mr and Mrs N say thats because the interest rate went up when their fixed rate ended in November 2019, and so they had no spare money to pay 
towards the arrears. Its unfair Halifax wouldnt allow them a new rate.
Halifaxs policy is generally that borrowers in arrears are not eligible for new interest rates. 
There are sound reasons for that  a borrower in arrears is much more likely to end their 
mortgage (either through sale or repossession) and if that happens there would be a 
significant early repayment charge, which could worsen the borrowers position. In this case, 
Mr and Mrs Ns property was on the market around the time their fixed rate ended, and so I 
dont think it was unfair to refuse a new interest rate at this time.
Halifax allows borrowers who can maintain their mortgage payments to capitalise their 
arrears. As Mr and Mrs N had already done this in 2018, they werent eligible to do so again 
until early 2021.
Halifax has now said that it will consider capitalising their arrears, and if it does so Mr and 
Mrs N will be eligible for a new interest rate. I think thats fair. 
Mr and Mrs N say they havent contacted Halifax to discuss this because they were advised 
not to contact Halifax while the complaint was with us. Ive seen no evidence we ever told 
them that  indeed, we encourage borrowers in financial difficulties to keep engaging with 
their lender while also pursuing their complaints with us. In fact, Mr N told us in February 
2021 that Halifax had contacted him to discuss capitalising the arrears now they were 
eligible to do so  but Mr and Mrs N said they were unwilling to discuss that with Halifax. 
Im not therefore persuaded that Halifax has acted unfairly here. It was reasonable to refuse 
Mr and Mrs N a new interest rate on the expiry of their old one in November 2019, in light of 
the situation at the time. Its now willing to discuss capitalising the arrears and looking at a 
new rate now Mr and Mrs N are eligible  but Mr and Mrs N were unwilling to proceed when 
contacted. However, now their complaint is at an end, Mr and Mrs N might want to get back 
in touch with Halifax to discuss their options.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman