DRN-2967419
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Ald Automotive Limited trading 
as Kia Contract Hire following the return of his car.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr S was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with Ald. The 
agreement was for 36 months, with monthly payments of £370.58. 
In April 2020, when the agreement ended, Mr S arranged to return the car. But, because of 
the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, Ald werent immediately able to collect the car. And it 
wasnt collected until June 2020.
After the car had been collected, Ald invoiced Mr S for damages that fell outside the British 
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) guidelines. Mr S wasnt happy with this, 
and said the car was damaged after the end of the agreement, while it was parked and 
waiting to be collected by Ald. So he didnt think it was his responsibility.
Mr S complained to Ald about the charges, and about the delay in collecting the car. Ald 
offered Mr S £100 for any inconvenience caused by the delay in collecting the car. But they 
didnt reduce the charges for the damage to the car. Mr S was unhappy with Alds response, 
and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the delay in collection was caused as a result of the national lockdown. 
Which meant that Ald werent able collect or inspect the car. These restrictions were lifted on 
1 June 2020, and the car was collected four days later. So he didnt think that, given this, the 
delay was excessive. And he thought the £100 offered by Ald was reasonable. 
The investigator also said hed seen evidence that the damage to the car fell outside the 
BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidelines, so he thought Ald had acted reasonably by charging 
Mr S for this. He said that the photographs Mr S supplied arent clear enough to show if any 
damage was present when the car was collected. 
The investigator thought the damage to the car was more likely than not to have occurred 
when Mr S had the car  he travelled 44,532 miles while the car was in his possession. So 
he didnt think Ald needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Ald had cancelled collection on the same 
day they were meant to collect it, and that the £100 doesnt compensate him for his lost 
wages on that day. And he thinks they are hiding their failures behind Covid. Mr S also said 
that the car was cleaned, polished, and all scratches removed the day before collection was 
originally due to take place, and that the photographs hes submitted show this.
Mr S also said that the car was no longer his from the original date of collection, so hes not 
responsible for any damage that took place after this date. And theres no evidence that the 
damage was caused by him. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr S signed on 24 April 2017. The agreement says that 
the Customer agrees to indemnify and keep indemnified [Ald] against any sums incurred or 
losses suffered as a result of:  any damage to the Vehicle.
The agreement goes on to say that Mr S is responsible for any damage outside of fair wear 
and tear guidelines. Based on the above, Im satisfied that Mr S wouldve been reasonably 
aware of his obligations under the agreement, and that he could be charged for damage to 
the car when it was returned.
Ive seen a copy of the inspection report, dated 4 June 2020, following the collection of the 
car. This details the damage to the car that falls outside of fair wear and tear guidelines. The 
report also contains photographic and video evidence which clearly shows the damage 
being charged for was present on the car. And Ald charged Mr S for this damage.
Ive reviewed the photographs Mr S supplied, which he says were taken at the end of the 
contract period. Its clear from these photographs that there is some damage to the edges of 
the alloy wheels. However, the bodywork damage isnt clear from the photographs  there 
are some marks on the bodywork panels that may be scratches or dents, but the reflection 
on the bodywork make it almost impossible to say with any certainty what they are.
Mr S has said that the damage was caused after the end of the original agreement, so he 
doesnt feel its his responsibility. But I dont agree with this. Its clear there was a delay in 
Ald collecting the car  this didnt happen until June 2020. And, between April and June 
2020 the car was mainly parked on the road. But the agreement Mr S signed makes it clear 
that he was responsible for any loss arising from any damage that happened to the car 
before it was collected.
Because of this, Im satisfied that Ald acted reasonably by charging Mr S for the damage to 
the car, even if this damage happened between April and June 2020. So I wont be asking 
them to reduce or waive their invoice.
Its not disputed that Ald arranged to collect the car from Mr S on two occasions, and these 
collections never happened. Mr S has said that he lost income as a result of this. While I 
appreciate that the missed collection dates wouldve been frustrating for Mr S, Ive not seen 
anything to show me that he lost any income as a direct result of the failed collections. 
Ald have offered Mr S £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the failed 
collections. And, given the above, I think this is reasonable. So its now for Mr S to decide 
whether or not to accept this.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Ald Automotive Limited 
trading as Kia Contract Hire.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman