DRN-3547486
The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) provided poor service under his 
HomeCare policy with them. He feels this led to the failure of his boiler. Hed like full 
compensation for the new boiler. And a full refund of his HomeCare premium for the year. 
What happened
Mr P held a HomeCare policy on a property he rented out. This provided him with boiler, 
controls and central heating cover including an annual service. It also covered repairs to 
plumbing, drains and home electrics. And provided gas safety checks and certification. 
Mr P said that his tenants had reported problems with the hot water from the boiler since 
February 2021. But that despite several visits, BG hadnt fully resolved the problem. He said 
that in June 2021, BG had carried out a safety check on the boiler and had found no faults. 
He said his tenant had told him that the engineer had: just wiped a pipe and left. 
Mr P said that on Saturday 7 August 2021, his tenants reported a more serious hot water 
issue. He said that although hed been able to book a BG appointment for Sunday 8 August 
2021, hed decided to call another plumber who came within the hour. He said that the 
plumber found very serious issues with the boiler. And that theyd told him those issues 
wouldve been present for at least six months. He said theyd told him the boiler should 
never have passed the latest landlord gas safety check. This led Mr P to believe that the gas 
safety check hadnt been carried out properly.
Mr P said the plumber felt the boiler was in a dangerous state so immediately turned it off. 
He said the plumber told him that the boiler wasnt repairable. He said this led him to pay for 
the purchase and installation of a new boiler as soon as possible, which was the following 
day. Mr P said that the total cost for the work and the callout was £5,617.76. 
Unhappy with the situation, Mr P complained to BG on 19 August 2021. They issued their 
final response on the complaint on 30 September 2021. They apologised for the level of 
service that Mr P had experienced. They said a senior technical manager had spoken to 
him. And had offered to refund the cost of the annual agreement. But that Mr P hadnt 
accepted this offer. They also said that their compensation payment for any missed 
appointments was £30 for each missed visit. They said theyd missed three appointments, 
so offered compensation of £90 for those. Mr P rejected that offer too. And brought his 
complaint to this service.
Mr P told this service that in order to resolve his complaint he wanted full compensation for 
the new boiler. And a refund of the annual premium, as he said that hed received no value 
from the cover. He didnt fee that the compensation BG had offered was fair under the 
circumstances. He said his overall experience had been extremely frustrating.
BG told this service that their position hadnt changed from their final response. They said 
they didnt dispute that the level of service had fallen below the level that they aimed to 
achieve. But they didn't agree that it was necessary for Mr P's boiler to be replaced. They 
said that when theyd spoken to him, theyd told him that the corrosion to the main 
framework of the boiler was due to the water leaks over the years, but didnt compromise the 
integrity of the boiler. BG also said that Mr Ps plumber had said that the boiler was cracked 
and needed to be replaced. But that the part hed said was cracked was readily available 
and couldve been replaced, without the need for a new boiler. They said that Mr P had 
decided to replace his boiler even though it couldve been repaired.
BG also told this service that page 10 of the policys terms and conditions, which showed 
what was covered under Boiler and Controls, stated that the policy only provided a 
replacement for a boiler if BG couldnt repair it and:
 its less than seven years old; or 
 its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously covered by 
us under either a warranty or HomeCare product; or 
 it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your annual service 
within every period of agreement
BG said that Mr Ps boiler was around 16 years old when he replaced it. Therefore it didnt 
meet the criteria for boiler replacement. So they felt that theyd acted correctly when they 
told him they wouldnt compensate him for the replacement cost. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that 
Mr P felt that BG hadnt maintained the boiler properly. But didnt find any evidence that that 
was the case. He felt that the compensation BG offered was fair, as Mr P wasnt covered for 
a replacement boiler given its age. Therefore he felt that BG had reasonably resolved the 
complaint. He said that if Mr P now wanted to accept BGs compensation offer - if it was still 
open - he should contact them directly.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
BG didnt attend an emergency appointment related to a serious boiler and gas 
safety issue on 7 August 2021. This forced him to engage an alternate plumber.
That plumber verbally told him that the boiler was not repairable and was dangerous. 
He felt that the photos of the boiler that were taken evidence that damage throughout 
the boiler is clear. 
The plumber hed engaged felt that the risk issues with the boiler wouldve been 
present for at least six months. So the boiler shouldnt have passed the last landlord 
gas safety check. His tenants had told him that BGs engineer had just wiped a pipe 
and left when carrying out the latest gas safety check. So he didnt consider that the 
check had been properly carried out.
He felt that the missed appointments had made the boiler issues worse. And that it 
was likely that theyd prevented proper and safe management of the issues. He felt 
that if BG had managed the situation properly in the middle of 2021, he couldve 
avoided the cost of a replacement boiler. Or managed the timeframe and cost better. 
He said that as the boiler was written off on Saturday 7 August 2021 hed had to pay 
more for the replacement on Sunday 8 August 2021. 
He said that BG had declined to visit through the weekend of 7 August 2021 to 
replace the boiler
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr P. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Ill cover the points Mr P has made below.
Mr P said that BG didnt attend an emergency appointment related to a serious boiler and 
gas safety issue on 7 August 2021. And that this forced him to engage alternate plumber.
Mr P had previously said that although hed been able to book a BG appointment for Sunday 
8 August 2021, hed decided to call another plumber as they were almost immediately 
available. 
Ive looked at the policys terms and conditions, and I cant see any reference to a 
requirement for BG to attend a property within any specific timescale. The section called: 
Reasonable timescales states:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Ive also seen no evidence that BG failed to attend a pre-booked appointment on 7 August 
2021. While I appreciate it mustve been frustrating for Mr P to not be able to book a same-
day appointment on 7 August 2021, I consider it reasonable that he could book one for the 
following day. And Ive found nowhere in the terms and conditions that states Mr P shouldve 
been entitled to a more immediate appointment. Therefore I cant uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Mr P said that his plumber verbally told him that the boiler wasnt repairable and was 
dangerous. Hes shared photos with this service of the damage. The plumbers report stated 
the following:
Attended property due to leak coming from boiler. Investigated to find multiple leaks within 
the boiler which has corroded the boiler casing. Found burner heat pads had cracked 
deeming the boiler at risk. With the customers permission I isolated the gas and electrical 
supplies and filled in warning notice. Further works required. 
The report noted that the plumber recommended that the boiler be replaced. And provided a 
quote for the work hed suggested. But Ive seen no evidence that BG ever indicated that the 
boiler needed to be replaced. They never said that the boiler couldnt be repaired or should 
be written off. BG didnt get the opportunity to assess whether the boiler could be repaired.
While I agree the photos show damage, they dont indicate how the damage occurred. So 
Ive not been able to draw any conclusions from the photos. 
BG have explained why they don't agree that Mr P needed a new boiler. They said that the 
corrosion to the main framework of the boiler that the plumber reported didnt compromise its 
integrity. And they said that although Mr Ps plumber had said that the boiler was cracked 
and needed to be replaced, the part that was cracked was readily available and couldve 
been replaced. They said that Mr P had decided to replace his boiler even though it couldve 
been repaired.Under the terms of the policy, Mr Ps boiler, at around 16 years old, was too old to benefit 
from any sort of contribution towards a replacement. Therefore, regardless of when Mr P 
decided to replace the boiler, the policy wouldnt provide any cover. Therefore I dont uphold 
this part of the complaint.
Mr P said that the plumber hed engaged felt that the risk issues with the boiler wouldve 
been present for at least six months. So the boiler shouldnt have passed the last landlord 
gas safety check. And he didnt consider that the check had been properly carried out.
The policys terms and conditions explain whats included in a gas safety check. It states:
An inspection of your gas meter, gas pipework and any gas appliance(s) on your 
statement
A Gas Safety Certificate for your gas meter, gas pipework and any gas appliance(s) 
on your statement, which well post or email to you and your tenant if you prefer. If 
any part fails the safety inspection, well include all the details on the Gas Safety 
Certificate
Ive carefully considered Mr Ps concerns. But theres no documentary evidence that BG 
didnt carry out the gas safety check effectively. And theres no documentary evidence that 
the issues in Mr Ps boiler were present, and shouldve been identified by the BG engineer, 
at the time of the gas safety check. 
While I understand why Mr P considers that BG is responsible for at least some of the boiler 
damage  he said his tenants said the gas safety check was cursory, and his plumber told 
him he felt the boilers problems had been around since before the gas safety check, without 
documentary evidence showing that BG didnt do what they were supposed to do, I cant 
reasonably say that BG failed to carry out the June 2021 gas safety check properly. And I 
cant reasonably say that the issues Mr Ps plumber identified had been there for six months. 
Mr P felt that the appointments he said BG had missed, had made the boiler issues worse, 
and prevented them from being appropriately managed. He felt he couldve either avoided 
the cost of a replacement boiler, or managed the timeframe and cost better, if BG had 
provided a better service. He said that as the boiler was written off on Saturday 7 August 
2021 hed had to pay more for the replacement on Sunday 8 August 2021. 
BG offered compensation of £30 for each of the appointments they missed. This is in line 
with their terms and conditions. Ive no evidence that missed appointments led to further 
damage to the boiler. Missed appointments can be re-booked and any work thats required 
can be carried out then. 
I understand why Mr P is frustrated that he had to pay more for the replacement boiler as the 
work was carried out on a Sunday. But I cant fairly hold BG responsible for that. Given how 
old Mr Ps boiler was, there was no cover towards a replacement under the policy. And BG 
have explained why the boiler didnt actually need to be replaced. As Im satisfied it was Mr 
Ps decision to replace the boiler when he did, I cant fairly hold BG responsible for any 
additional costs he incurred for making that decision during the weekend. So I cant uphold 
this part of the complaint.
Mr P said that BG declined to come out to the property through the weekend of 7 August 
2021 to replace the boiler.
I cant uphold this part of the complaint. As Ive stated earlier, there was no cover for a 
replacement boiler under the policy, given the age of Mr Ps boiler. So BG were under no obligation to replace his boiler. And Ive no evidence that BG declined to attend the property 
over the weekend in question. Mr P himself has confirmed that hed been able to book a BG 
appointment for Sunday 8 August 2021, but had decided to arrange a quicker alternative.
In summary, BG have acknowledged that their service couldve been better. Theyve offered 
a refund of the premium and compensation for each missed appointment. I consider that 
their offer was fair and in line with their policy terms and conditions. Therefore I dont require 
them to do any more. And I dont uphold the complaint. Mr P has rejected BGs offer. But if 
he would now like to accept it - if its still open, he should contact them directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman