DRN-3859842
The complaint
Mr L complains about a loan granted to him by Progressive Money Limited (PML). He says
PML were irresponsible to have lent to him at that time.
What happened
PML agreed a loan for Mr L in October 2018. The loan was for £15,000 to be repaid in
monthly instalments of £338 over ten years, and the total amount owed was £40,522 (figures
rounded).
Mr L said that PML shouldnt have agreed a loan for him because he had a poor credit
history - he frequently took out short term and high street bank loans and had a history of
significant credit card debt. Mr L explained that he borrowed to feed a significant gambling
problem, where he was gambling thousands of pounds a month at times. Mr L also says that
PML were aware that at the time of the application he had just received a cash advance of
more than £40,000 from his mortgage lender. He says that PML set him up to fail by
providing him with this loan and that he has since defaulted on it.
PML said that it discussed Mr Ls income and expenditure with him, checked his credit file
and his last two months bank statements before agreeing to lend to him. It said that while it
could see his history of borrowing, he didnt have any outstanding debt apart from two credit
card balances. It had asked Mr L about the re-mortgage and hed told it that he used these 
funds to repay money owing to his parents. PML also said that there were three gambling 
transactions showing on Mr Ls statements which were not of concern and there was no 
evidence to indicate that he had a gambling habit. PML didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. They found that,
while PML should have looked into his circumstances further before lending to him, for
example by looking at more of his bank statements, these wouldnt have revealed anything
of concern. They concluded that PML wasnt irresponsible to lend to Mr L and didnt
recommend that his complaint be upheld.
Mr L didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for him complaint to come to an
ombudsman to review and resolve, and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 
7 November 2022 explaining why I thought Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. PML didnt 
agree with my conclusion. This is my final decision on the matter and will be legally binding 
on both parties if Mr L accepts it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what PML said in response to my provisional 
decision, I remain of the view that Mr Ls complaint should succeed. I appreciate that this will 
be very disappointing for PML and I am sorry that this isnt the outcome it looked for. Ill set 
out here again my reasons for upholding Mr Ls complaint and will address its response 
where appropriate.  
As Id said in my provisional decision, PML will be familiar with the regulations in place at the 
time so I wont set them out in detail but will summarise them and refer to them where 
appropriate. PML needed to check that Mr L could afford to meet his repayments sustainably 
or without difficulty before agreeing the loan. In other words, it needed to check that he could 
meet his repayments out of his usual means without having to borrow further and without 
experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks needed to take 
into account both the nature of the credit (the amount offered or the loan term, for example) 
and Mr Ls particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that PML needed to pay due regard to Mr Ls interests and
treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main consideration is did PML complete reasonable and proportionate
checks when assessing Mr Ls application to satisfy itself that he would be able to make his
repayments sustainably without having to borrow further or experience adverse
consequences? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and,
ultimately, did PML make a fair and responsible lending decision?
PML carried out an income and expenditure assessment when Mr L applied for his loan.
Mr L said in his application that his net monthly income was £3,980 and his monthly
expenses came to £2,045. PML noted that Mr L had balances on two credit cards of
approximately £3,000 altogether, and large credit limits available on others (in total almost
£22,000). PML asked Mr L about these on a call and he said that he paid off his credit cards
in full each month and probably wouldnt utilise the cards with zero balances.
PML provided us with a copy of the credit file report it relied on, and Mr Ls bank statements.
It also provided a recording of the call in which it discussed Mr Ls finances. It seems to me
that PML gathered sufficient information about Mr Ls circumstances to be able to make a
reasonable assessment of affordability. However, I dont think PML acted responsibly when
it agreed a loan for Mr L on this occasion because it should have seen from the information it
had that the loan was unsuitable for Mr L given his borrowing history and his personal
circumstances.
Mr Ls credit file from the time, which PML relied on, shows the level of his recent borrowing
 over £37,000 cash advances in the previous 12 months and over £102,000 in the previous
36 months. It shows that some large credit card balances had been cleared within the last
six months and that Mr L had re-mortgaged in August, just a few months before. Mr L told us 
that he gambled significant sums and that in 2018 his parents helped him clear his debts (in 
the months up to May 2018) and he re-mortgaged his home a few months later to repay 
them.
PML knew about Mr Ls long-established borrowing history and it also knew the extent of his
gambling and how these two were related. It had declined his loan applications in February
and March of that year and told us that it had rejected the 4 February 2018 application, as it
was identified that Mr [L]s bank statements at the time showed that he had gambled over
£20,000 in the previous 2 months with the source of the funds coming from short term loans.
The notes also showed we rejected the 20 March 2018 application due to the level of
gambling, though there are no details on the level of gambling at that time.
It seems to me that Mr Ls pattern of spending impacted adversely on him in that heborrowed significant sums to spend on gambling. While the loan repayments might have
been affordable for Mr L on a pounds and pence basis, there was a clear risk that he
wouldnt manage to meet his repayments sustainably or without experiencing adverse
consequences during the loan term. Altogether, I dont think PML treated Mr L fairly and with
due regard to his interests when it provided him with this amount of credit so soon after he
had reorganised his debts, knowing his established borrowing and spending patterns.
Mr L provided us with his bank statements from 2018. I can see from these that hed spent
half the funds on gambling the day the loan was disbursed and the rest was gone within a
week. That same week Mr L received loans, including a short term loan, of over £35,000
from four different lenders. At the end of December Mr L repaid over £3,500 to various other
lenders (excluding his mortgage) and so it continued.
The statement of account shows that Mr L met his repayments, mostly on time, for this loan.
However, he didnt manage to do so without borrowing from elsewhere. It seems from the
information I have that Mr L was in a cycle of debt due to the amount he was spending on
gambling and while there were a few months where he moved his unsecured debts to his
mortgage with help from his parents, his pattern of borrowing and spending continued. I think
this was foreseeable and Ive concluded that PMLs loan adversely impacted on Mr L.
In response to my provisional decision PML said that it took an evidence-based stance on 
this case and took reasonable steps in determining whether the application was sustainable 
for Mr L. PML said it found little evidence of gambling during its assessment and could not 
have reasonably foreseen that this loan would cause Mr L to revert to past conduct. PML 
said it should not be held responsible for Mr L reverting to habits which were seemingly 
behind him.
As Id explained in my provisional decision PML needed to take into account more than 
Mr Ls ability to repay the credit - it had to consider whether he could meet his repayments 
without difficulty, for example without having to borrow to do so. It also needed to treat Mr L 
fairly and with due regard to his interests, for example by not entering into an unsuitable 
credit agreement with him. Mr L had a recent history of spending which caused him harm 
and PML was aware of this. Altogether, in the circumstances of this case, Ive concluded that 
PML was irresponsible to lend to Mr L and it now needs to take steps to put things right for 
him.
Putting things right
I understand that Mr L has repaid more than the capital he borrowed. In this case, I
think its fair that the capital repaid (up to £15,000) should remain with PML, but I dont think
Mr L should pay any interest, fees or charges on this loan, which Ive found to have been
irresponsible given. 
In summary PML should:
Cap the amount Mr L needs to repay at £15,000; and
Consider all payments, including fees, Mr L made as payments towards this capital 
amount; and
oIf Mr L has paid more than this then PML needs to refund these 
overpayments to him along with 8% simple interest per annum* from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement of this complaint. In this case PML needs 
to remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Ls credit file up to 
the point of settlement of the complaint; oroIf it transpires that Mr L has not yet repaid the capital, then PML needs to 
treat Mr L fairly and with forbearance and due consideration regarding his 
outstanding capital balance. This may mean coming to an affordable 
repayment plan with him. Once the loan capital has been repaid, then PML 
should remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Ls credit file.
*HMRC requires PML to take off tax from this interest. PML must give Mr L a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am upholding Mr Ls complaint about Progressive
Money Limited and it now needs to take the steps outlined to put things right for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman