DRN-2685560
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
Mr C is represented by a third party.   
What happened
Using information from Mutuals records supplied to us here is a brief loan table to show the 
approved loans for Mr C. The first seven were claimed have been out of this Services 
jurisdiction due to the date Mr C complained to Mutual, and in the absence of information to 
the contrary from Mr C these have not been included and so no decision is made in relation 
to them. They are shaded grey in the table. They remain relevant in terms of the lending 
history. This decision relates to loans 8 and 9.  
Loan Approved Amount 
BorrowedRepayments / 
Term in weeksSettled Balance 
at 
refinance
(rounded)Total 
repaid
(rounded 
figures)
1. 21.05.11 £700 £980 
(51 x £19.21)21.12.11 £935
2. 20.08.11 £800 £1,120 
(51 x £21.96)09.05.12 £1,095
3. 10.12.11 £1,200 £1,680 
(51 x £32.94)12.12.12 £1,680
4. 05.05.12 £1,000 £1,400 
(51 x £27.45)10.04.13 £1,399
5. 22.12.12 £1,000 £1,400 
(51 x £27.45)27.11.13 £1,400
6. 27.03.13 £2,000 £3,100
 (102 x £30.39)03.12.14 £490 £2,610
7. 02.11.13 £4,750 £8,075 
(156 x £51.76)16.11.16 £8,075
8. 06.12.14 £1,368 £2,120.40 
(102 x £20.78)31.01.16 £1,028 £1,092
9. 19.12.15 £2,000 £3,100 
(102 x £30.39)19.07.17 £3,100
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mutual should put things 
right for Mr C for loans 8 and 9. 
Mutual disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints
of this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of
this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our 
general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail 
about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. These included points and 
issues (among others) relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of 
published documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and 
the provision of graphs to compare its repayments with high cost short term credit lenders. 
I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has 
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions. 
Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Mr Cs circumstances or complaint I have 
referred to them where necessary. 
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost 
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as beingwithout undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mr C, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this 
point was reached around Loan 6 but as that loan is out of our jurisdiction then I can uphold 
the complaint from Loan 8 as its first in the loan chain on which I am able to decide. I explain 
why I think this in the following paragraphs. 
One part of Mutuals submissions about which I disagree is that it has said that there were 
gaps between the lending with Mr C and that is simply not the case. And despite its 
submission it has produced a chart which clearly demonstrates that all eleven loans 
overlapped showing a continuous period of lending from May 2011 to July 2017. And loan 7 
was taken before loan 8, overlapped with loan 8 and 9 and loan 8 appears to have been 
repaid around the time Mr C was approved for loan 9 all the while Mr C remained indebted 
with loan 7.  
I have little evidence from Mutual about exactly what it did know about Mr Cs financial 
situation when approving the loans. Its final response letter (FRL) to Mr C describes a 
number of application checks it did, or explains that it would have done. But Ive received 
little evidence of them for loans 8 and 9 apart from brief details relating to Mr Cs income and 
expenditure on an application form, and more information set out in a table in the FRL. 
Mutual says that information related to December 2015 which must have been for Loan 9. 
Mutual does not appear to have verified the income or expenditure by the time Mr C was 
applying for loans 8 or 9. Mutual has said that it carried out credit checks but no evidence of 
these have been supplied. 
In Mutuals FRL to Mr C, it cites the FCA CONC regulations from chapter 5.2A.20. This was 
not in force until November 2018 and so different regulations applied for the dates Mr Cs 
loans 8 and 9 were being approved.  
Mutual says that a good repayment record indicated that there was no financial difficulty and 
that records assisted in the decision making for Mutual to lend more. Past repayment record 
may be of some use but inevitably does not give the whole picture and if  as is often the 
case - people in debt borrow to repay loans, then Id expect a professional lender to have 
questioned that element and double checked it especially after years of being in debt as 
Mr C was by the time it approved loan 8 while loan 7 remained outstanding. And again, 
when Mutual approved loan 9 whilst Loans 7 and 8 remained outstanding.
By the time Mr C applied for loan 8 he had been in debt to Mutual for three and a half years 
and loan 7 (a large loan) remained outstanding. Loan 7 is relevant for the period when Mr C 
was applying for loans 8 and then loan 9 because Mr C was still paying for it and Mutual 
knew it was an ongoing debt. The application and agreement for loan 7 has been provided 
by Mutual. In the loan 7 application form it is noted that the purpose of the credit was for a 
H.P. Vehicle Purchase. Its likely that H.P. referred to hire purchase. 
So, the explanation given to Mutuals agent appears have been that Mr C needed to 
supplement the car purchase which he was doing through a separate HP agreement, by 
applying to Mutual for a loan. Or the loan may have been for the car purchase deposit.This 
suggests to me that Mr C was applying for additional credit to repay a separate credit agreement. I think that background likely would have been an alert to Mutual when, before 
Loan 7 had been repaid, Mr C returned for more loans by applying for loans 8 and 9. 
In the absence of any credit checks supplied by Mutual, and as Mr C has explained that he 
used another well-known home credit provider to pay off Mutual, and the other way around, 
I have looked to see what records Mr C has given us about those loans with the other 
provider  I will call it HC2. The dates over which HC2 provides Mr C with loans dovetail in 
some years with the dates for the loans given by Mutual. These details show Mr C was 
borrowing significantly from other lenders. A credit search likely would have given Mutual the 
details and added to the creditworthiness assessment it was required to do by the FCA. 
I have no details of any searches done by Mutual.  
So, around the time of the Mutual loan 8, Mr C was already showing signs of additional 
overlapping of loans, increase in weekly payment commitments and likely borrowing to repay 
earlier loans (demonstrated by what appears to have been refinancing - loan 8 looks to have 
been used to repay loan 6. Loan 9 looks to have been used to repay loan 7). And details 
supplied by Mr C show that he was already and regularly indebted to HC2. So, I accept what 
Mr C has explained which is that he was using one to repay the other. Borrowing to repay 
other lending is a good indication of unsustainability with debt. 
Loan 7 was not repaid until Mr C had been repaying loan 8 for almost two years and loan 9 
for almost a year. And so, his indebtedness was prolonged. And as I have said earlier  the 
lending was continuous for over eight years. I have decided that Mutual ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr Cs indebtedness was unsustainable.
I think that Mr C lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 8
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 8 and 9 and Ill go on to set out
what Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge 
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number 
of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower 
amount than this to Mr C, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. That was a different 
question, with some different considerations to whether a loan or series of loans had been 
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself 
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in that 
judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of short 
term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges conclusions about a
differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be
also looked at, as Ive done above.So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr C from loan 8, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was 
even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr C in a 
compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr C loans 8 and 9. My understanding is that these have been 
repaid and there are no outstanding balances.
 
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything already refunded; and 
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C)  Mutual should pay Mr C the total of A plus B; and
D) the overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 8 and 9 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Cs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited must do as I have directed above.                 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman