DRN-2278328
The complaint
Mrs W says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Mrs W took out in 2002. It was
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs W says
she wasnt aware it had been added. AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Ws application form. 
The form has a section for the PPI and applicants can sign in this section if they wish to take 
out the policy. Mrs W has signed this section of the application form. And she signed the 
overall credit agreement, so I think if there was anything on the form she wasn't sure about 
or hadn't agreed to, she would've had the opportunity to question it at the time.
On balance, I think AXA made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI, and she
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Its not entirely clear as to 
whether Mrs W was self-employed or not at the time. But Ive carefully reviewed the terms of 
the policy, but if Mrs W was self-employed I dont think it would have made it any more 
difficult for her to make a claim. Mrs W says she would have got sick pay benefits and she 
had savings. But the PPI would have paid out alongside her sick pay benefits meaning she 
could have used these to cover other essential costs. And having the policy would have 
meant her savings could have been used for other things or their intended purpose. So, I 
think it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
I also havent seen anything to make me think the PPI was unaffordable. All of this means I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont think Mrs W has lost out because of anything AXA might have done wrong.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs W has said, but for the reasons explained above
these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman