DRN-3179032
The complaint
Mr F complains that Old Mutual Wealth Life & Pensions Limited (Old Mutual) failed to 
execute a fund switching instruction in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr F has been assisted in making this complaint by his financial advisor. But, for ease, in 
this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr F 
himself.
Mr F held pension savings with Old Mutual. He says that, in March 2020, he decided to alter 
the investment of some of those pension savings to potentially take advantage of the market 
turmoil caused by the start of the Coronavirus pandemic.
Mr Fs financial advisor sent a fund switching instruction to Old Mutual at 10:10am on 
Friday 20 March 2020. That instruction was sent after the dealing point for that day, so it 
would be expected to be completed the following working day. The instruction directed 
Old Mutual to switch around £26,700 of Mr Fs pension savings from three cash-based funds 
into 19 new investment funds.
One of the new funds selected by Mr F was a property fund that had been suspended from 
trading three days earlier. That information had been relayed to the financial advisor in a 
general bulletin by Old Mutual the previous day. Mr F asked that 20% of the applicable 
monies were invested in that fund. Old Mutual says that its terms and conditions did not 
allow it to process any of Mr Fs instruction and so it attempted to make telephone contact 
with his financial advisor to seek alternative instructions.
Old Mutual failed to make telephone contact with the advisor so it sent an email to him at 
4:10pm that same day. Mr Fs advisor responded to the email on Monday 23 March at 
7:11pm. The email noted that Mr F was unhappy that the unaffected parts of his switch 
instruction hadnt been implemented, and provided revised instructions. But those revised 
instructions still asked Old Mutual to invest monies in the suspended property fund.
At 12:35pm the following day (24 March) the advisor sent a new email asking for the 
message from the previous evening to be disregarded. He provided a new set of fund 
switching instructions. As this instruction was sent to Old Mutual after that days processing 
cut off, Old Mutual implemented Mr Fs instructions the following day.
Mr Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Old Mutual 
had acted in line with its terms and conditions and so hadnt unreasonably delayed the 
investments. So he didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr F didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr F and by Old Mutual. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I dont think there is any disagreement about the basic facts of this complaint. Mr Fs 
financial advisor submitted the fund switching instruction to Old Mutual on 20 March. That 
instruction contained, in part, a request to invest monies in a suspended fund. A replacement 
instruction was provided to Old Mutual by the advisor on 23 March, but that also contained 
the suspended fund. And the final instruction was provided after the processing cut off on 
24 March. That instruction was implemented the following working day.
Given the general agreement about the above timeline, I think the matter that I need to 
consider, and the basis of Mr Fs complaint, is whether it was reasonable for Old Mutual to 
delay the implementation of the whole instruction, or whether it should have implemented the 
parts it could as Mr F suggests. And I will also consider whether Old Mutual did enough to 
manage Mr Fs expectations about when his instruction would be completed.
I think the basis on which I should be looking at this complaint should be the terms and 
conditions applicable to Mr Fs pension plan. I think the relevant section here, dealing with 
switching funds, is section 8.3. That says;
If you instruct us to switch to or from multiple funds we will treat this as one 
instruction. This means that if we cannot complete any part of that instruction we will 
delay processing it until all of the switches can be completed.
As I said earlier, Mr Fs instruction was to switch monies from three existing investment 
funds to 19 new funds. Old Mutual wasnt able to complete that instruction in its entirety 
since one of the new funds had been suspended from trading three days earlier. So I think it 
was right that, in line with the terms and conditions Ive shown above, Mr Fs entire request 
was paused.
I have considered that Mr F thinks that Old Mutual could have processed the rest of his 
instruction, leaving the 20% that he intended to invest in the property fund in some sort of 
holding account. But I think doing that would open Old Mutual up to a whole series of risks. 
Its terms and conditions are clear  unless the whole transaction can be completed, it should 
do nothing. If markets had moved adversely, and Old Mutual had completed the instruction 
in part, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr F to complain that Old Mutual hadnt 
followed the agreed terms and conditions. Old Mutual had no way of predicting what would 
happen in the markets  and so I think it was right that it simply applied the terms as theyd 
previously been set out.
Old Mutual says that it tried to contact Mr Fs advisor by phone. And, when that was unsuccessful, I can see that it sent an email to him. I appreciate that Mr Fs advisor has 
explained that the market volatility at that time was placing him under a great deal of time 
pressure. But I think those pressures would have equally been faced by Old Mutual. I think 
Old Mutuals actions, in making immediate contact with the advisor to explain the problem, 
were more than enough in this case.
I appreciate how disappointing this decision will be for Mr F. He was guided by his financial 
advisor into how best to manage his investments during this unprecedented time. But the 
failure to get his new investments processed as quickly as he might have hoped wasnt as a 
result of any failings at Old Mutual. I think the firm acted in line with the relevant terms and 
conditions. And it make very prompt contact with the advisor to explain the problems. So 
I dont think Old Mutual has done anything wrong, and so it doesnt need to pay Mr F any 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Old Mutual Wealth Life & Pensions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman