DRN-2540405
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are complaining about the valuation of their car by Aviva Insurance Limited in 
relation to a claim on Mrs Hs car insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs Hs car suffered a fire. When Avivas engineers inspected 
the car, they determined that the cost of repairing the car would be more than its market 
value  so they said it was a total loss.
Aviva said the pre-incident value of the car was £1,177 and rounded this up to £1,200.
Mr H was unhappy with this valuation and said he thought it should be much higher  for 
example around £3,000. When he complained to Aviva, they said theyd used the trade 
guides to give an idea of the value of the car. And theyd taken into account the condition of 
the car before the fire  which they said was poor. So they didnt increase the valuation.
Mr H brought the complaint to our service and our investigator looked into the matter. She 
checked the trade guides and looked at the engineers reports and said she thought Aviva 
had valued Mr and Mrs Hs car fairly. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision  so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is not to value Mr and Mrs Hs car but to look at whether Aviva have acted fairly and 
in line with the policy when carrying out their valuation. Although I appreciate itll be a 
disappointment to Mr H, Im satisfied Aviva have acted fairly - Ill explain why. 
Avivas policy booklet defines market value as the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of 
the same make, model, specification and condition. 
In determining the market value of Mr and Mrs Hs car, Aviva have looked at values from 
three trade guides. As they said in their final response letter, they also looked at the market 
place for similar vehicles to check that the guide figures were a realistic representation of the 
market. We generally think its fair for insurers to rely on these guides when deciding on a 
valuation. Thats because the guides are informed by national research and analysis of car 
sales to work out the likely selling price of a vehicle. We give this more weight than adverts 
for cars, as these are often set with negotiation in mind, so dont represent the final sale 
price of the car.
In the case of Mr and Mrs Hs car, the valuation was made more difficult by the fact that the 
car was not in good condition before the fire. The prices given by the trade guides assume 
that a car is in very good condition for its age. But Mr and Mrs Hs car had a significant 
amount of bodywork damage in various places on the car, as well as a broken window at the 
back of the car. I can see all of these in the photos the engineer took of the car. 
In addition, the engineer noted that Mr H had described an engine fault which happened 
before the fire  so its clear that there were also mechanical problems before the fire which 
would need to be taken into account when considering the market value.
Ive checked the three guides Aviva have referenced. I can see the value they give ranges 
from £1,425 to £1,705. This is for cars of the same make, model, age and mileage as Mr and 
Mrs Hs car  but represents cars in very good condition.
Wed normally say it was fair for insurers to deduct half the cost of repairing any pre-incident 
damage when deciding the value of a car that wasnt in very good condition. In this case, 
Aviva havent calculated the cost of repairing the pre-incident damage. But, looking at the 
extent of the pre-incident damage, Im satisfied Aviva would have arrived at a lower valuation 
if they had gone through this process. So, Ive concluded that Aviva have valued Mr and 
Mrs Hs car fairly.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and 
Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman