DRN-3721371
The complaint
Mr R has complained about his car insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) as it wont replace 
his windscreen with manufacturer glass.
What happened
Mr R needed to claim for a damaged windscreen. The windscreen needed replacing. He 
wanted manufacturer glass. But UKIs repairer said that needed to be authorised by UKI as it 
usually fits non-branded glass of a similar quality. UKI said it wouldnt cover the extra cost of 
fitting manufacturer glass. It said the policy allowed it to use non-manufacturer parts. Mr R 
said the policy was unclear and complained.
Our Investigator said the policy was clear, UKI could fit non-manufacturer glass. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr R maintained that the wording is unclear and asked for an 
Ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr R thinks UKIs policy wording is unclear. But I dont think that is the 
case. When looking specifically at the window cover the UKI policy says it will pay for repair 
or replacement up to the market value of the car. So that part of the policy explains what 
the maximum is that UKI will pay in any given circumstance. It doesnt mean that UKI will 
always settle windscreen claims in line with the market value of the car. I dont think this is in 
any way unclear.
I know Mr R has also referred to another part of the wording which says:
We may decide to repair your car with parts that havent been made by your cars 
manufacturer, but that are of a similar standard. This can include recycled parts. If any part 
or accessory is not available, the most well pay for that part will be the cost shown in the 
manufacturers last UKI price list (plus reasonable fitting cost).
This piece of wording comes from a part of the policy headed how repairs and replacements 
work. So it is giving more detail about what can be expected. I think the wording here is 
quite straightforward and theres nothing unclear about it. It simply allows UKI to use 
non-manufacturer parts  but if a part isnt available then UKI can, instead, base its 
settlement on the last known price for a part that the manufacturer gave. 
I realise that Mr R thinks that, read together, the two parts of the policy are contradictory. But 
I dont think that is the case. They do both give detail about UKIs maximum liability  but 
UKI can have more than one level of liability. In any event  this is about whether UKI, 
regarding Mr Rs claim, can reasonably settle for non-manufacturer glass. And nothing 
regarding UKIs maximum liability impinges on or detract from what UKI says about that. The 
non-manufacturer part is available, and the policy clearly allows UKI to choose that type of 
material for replacement. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman