DRN-4286093
The complaint
Mr S and Miss M are unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim they made on 
their buildings insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
The building is made up of two flats. Mr S and Miss M jointly owned one.
Mr S got in touch with UKI in October 2022 about damage to the extension of the 
building. UKI appointed a loss adjuster, who arranged for investigations to be carried 
out. The loss adjuster thought the damage had been caused by subsidence as a 
result of a tree drying out the clay subsoil.
The claim was declined because the loss adjuster said the foundation was defective 
 and the policy doesnt cover that. They said a code of practice for foundation 
design and guidance provided by a builder of new homes, N, showed this.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He provided a Completion Certificate from the local 
council Building Control to show the foundation had been signed off when built. He 
also said the tree causing the subsidence may not have been there at the time the 
extension was built, so the foundation design couldnt have taken it into account.
UKI maintained it was fair to decline the claim as the depth of the foundation wasnt 
in line with Ns guidance  even if the impact of the tree was disregarded.
Mr S said UKI had caused him and Miss M a financial loss by declining the claim. 
Theyd previously let out their flat and the tenancy ended prior to the claim, leaving it 
empty. After that theyd begun the process of selling it but that had been interrupted 
upon discovery of the subsidence problem. They arranged for repairs to be carried 
out in March 2023 and the flat sale was completed soon after. They said the way UKI 
had dealt with the claim had caused them to make more mortgage payments than 
they ought to have done prior to the sale.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said the relevant 
standards were Building Regulations. And the Completion Certificate showed the 
council was satisfied the extension foundation had met Building Regulations. So she 
didnt think it was fair to say the foundation had been defectively designed.
She asked UKI to accept the claim and pay interest on the cash settlement. She also 
asked it to pay £300 compensation and one months interest on Mr S and Miss Ms 
mortgage repayments to account for the delay caused.
Mr S accepted our investigators suggestions. UKI provided comments from its loss 
adjuster. In summary, they reiterated that they werent relying solely on the guidance 
of N, but also on a code of practice for foundation design.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage to the building caused by subsidence. But it contains a 
policy term which says damage caused by defective design isnt covered.
UKI accepts the building damage was caused by subsidence. Its declined the claim 
because it thinks that was caused by defective design. The onus is on UKI to show it 
would be fair to rely on that policy term to decline the claim.
UKI has referred to guidelines by N, a builder of new homes. Ns guidance only 
applies when construction is under the supervision of N. That wasnt the case for this 
extension. So, the extension didnt need to comply with Ns guidelines.
Building Regulations applied to the extension. At the time it was built, they didnt 
specify a minimum depth. What depth was appropriate was a judgement call for the 
designer, builder and Building Control to make based on the site conditions.
UKI has also referred to a code of practice for foundation design. They noted it 
requires the foundation depth to be below the zone where shrinkage and swelling 
due to seasonal weather changes, trees, shrubs, and other vegetation are likely to 
cause appreciable movement.
This is an overarching aim of the code. This is in keeping with Building Regulations 
which say, in summary, the building should be constructed so that ground movement 
caused by soil shrinkage wont impair its stability.
Im not persuaded taking these broad aims as literally as UKI has suggested would 
produce a fair outcome. It would amount to concluding that any claim for subsidence 
caused by clay shrinkage meant the foundation was faulty and the damage wasnt 
covered by the policy. Both the code and the regulations contain specific guidance 
about how to achieve the broad aim. UKI hasnt pointed to any specific guidance to 
set out what it thinks wasnt followed.
Mr S has provided a copy of the local council Completion Certificate. Its clear 
Building Control was satisfied the extension met Building Regulations. So Im not 
satisfied it would be fair to conclude that the foundation was defective.
In addition, when Mr S and Miss M bought their flat, the extension was already in 
place. I think they were entitled to rely on the Completion Certificate as evidence the 
extension, including the foundation, was built to the appropriate standard.
I dont think theres any other practical steps they could have taken to ensure this 
was the case. So Im not satisfied it would be fair to decline the claim, even if UKI 
were able to show the foundation was defective.Taking of all this into account. Im not satisfied it was fair and reasonable for UKI to 
decline the claim. To put things right, it should accept and settle the claim, subject to 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr S has had the work carried out, so UKI will have to settle the claim by cash 
payment. It wouldnt be appropriate at this stage for me to make any findings about 
how much UKI should pay, as it hasnt had the chance to look into this yet.
The next step is for UKI to consider what a reasonable amount to pay is in the 
circumstances. It should also add interest to the cash payment as Mr S and Miss M 
have been without the money unfairly. Interest should be added to each invoice UKI 
pays, to the extent it pays it, from the date it was paid, until UKI pays the settlement.
Our investigator thought there had been around one month of delay during the claim. 
And had that not been the case, the repairs would have been carried out one month 
sooner and Mr S and Miss Ms flat would have sold one month sooner. As a result, 
she thought theyd unfairly lost out on the mortgage interest they paid for a month 
and UKI should reimburse it. Mr S and Miss M agreed and UKI didnt challenge it. Im 
satisfied this is fair remedy in the circumstances.
Our investigator also thought the way UKI handled the claim had caused Mr S and 
Miss M avoidable distress and inconvenience and suggested £300 compensation. 
They agreed and UKI didnt challenge it. Given the delay dealing with the claim and 
the impact this had on the flat sale, I think avoidable distress and inconvenience was 
caused. Im satisfied £300 is reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Accept and settle the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Pay interest on the cash payment at 8% simple per year, from the date each invoice 
was paid to the date of settlement*.
Pay one month of mortgage interest, upon receipt of evidence.
Pay £300 compensation**.
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S and Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S 
and Miss M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
**UKI must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S and Miss M 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from 
the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman