DRN-4120902
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C & G) have 
restricted her claim for treatment provided to her cat M, capping some charges unfairly, and 
she isnt happy with the way the excess and co-payment have been deducted, and the policy 
benefit limit applied.     
What happened
Mrs H held a pet insurance policy from C & G for her cat M, with a policy benefit limit on vets 
fees of £4000 per condition per year. 
In April 2022 Mrs H took her cat M to the vet as she was unwell, and unfortunately, despite 
several days treatment, M passed away. 
The total bill came to £5055.49, which was claimed for across 5 separate claims. 
C & G applied policy restrictions to some parts of Mrs Hs claims, deducting fluid therapy 
over £100, hospitalisation over £100, medication mark up over 100%, supplements and part 
of the claim that related to scans performed by a vet from another practice  a referral vet.  
Mrs H also complained about way C & G had applied the excess and co-payment, which 
effectively capped her benefit limit at £3323.50, rather than the £4000 she believed she was 
entitled to. 
Mrs H complained to C & G. In their final response they upheld their decision in all aspects 
of the claim, except the payment in relation to the medication Destolit. They agreed this 
would be payable, but they said that the policy limit had now been reached and so no further 
payment would be made.
 Mrs H was unhappy with this and she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint and he thought that C & G had 
applied the policy terms fairly.     
Mrs H didnt agree, and so the case has come to me to review.   
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
C & G have made a number of deductions from the claim under various terms in the policy.  I 
have explained whether I think each deduction has been fairly made below. 
Medication/Supplements
C & G initially excluded some medication  Destolit - treating it as supplements. However, 
in their  final response on 7 July C & G agreed that it shouldnt have been excluded.  
However, they then said it wouldnt now be paid as the benefit limit had already been 
reached and nothing further was due.  I have addressed this under the policy benefit limit 
below.  
 
Fluid therapy
C & G have restricted the claim relating to fluid therapy M received to £100, deducting a total 
of £116.81 from the claim. In their final response they have relied on the policy restriction at 
p16 which says:
Any costs in excess of £100 and/or greater than 24 hours relating to intravenous infusion for 
pets younger than 8 unless directly related to treatment that was life-saving for Your pet and 
Your Vet confirms this to Us;
Mrs Hs policy schedule records M as being 11 years and 1month old at the start date of the 
policy. As the above restriction specifically applies to pets under 8 years old, Im satisfied 
that this policy exclusion shouldnt apply to Mrs Hs claim. 
I queried this with C & G given Ms age. They have responded saying that they have also 
applied a different restriction which is:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable; and Essential for Your pets health and 
well-being. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary 
treatment, medication and dispensing fees; Blood sampling charges will be capped at the 
UK market average; Each and every claim will be reviewed by Our claims assessors and 
costs will be compared against charges for the same or similar Treatment to make sure that 
the Treatment and veterinary fees are reasonable, necessary, essential, and not excessive 
compared to the rest of the UK market.
They further said that Current market research has indicated that £100 is a reasonable fee 
for fluid therapy, and therefore we deducted the costs that exceeded this allowance
In their original final response, C & G have relied only on the fluid therapy policy term, and it 
appears that they are now trying to apply a different restriction retrospectively because their 
original exclusion doesnt apply  which I dont think is fair. In addition, C & G havent 
provided me with any evidence which supports their view that the fluid therapy fee invoiced 
isnt reasonable, necessary, essential and not excessive compared to the rest of the UK 
market. In view of that I dont think a restriction on the fluid therapy fees are fair, and so I 
am minded to direct that the full cost of the fluid therapy should be included in Mrs Hs claim. 
Hospitalisation
C & G have limited the claim relating to hospitalisation to £100 a day, deducting a total of 
£102 from the claim. In their final response they have relied on the policy restriction at p16 
which  says:
Any claim where the cost of a referral consultation exceeds £200 and where hospitalisation 
costs exceed £100 per day;
I can see from the invoices provided that the costs of hospitalisation are listed as £76.77 per 
day, which doesnt exceed the £100. So, I asked C & G to confirm why they have made a  
restriction under this term of the policy. They have replied that there are also inpatient 
examinations listed as £48.73 per day, which should be included as a cost of hospitalisation 
and nursing, bringing the total per day costs to £125.73 for four of the five days of 
hospitalisation. 
I cant see any definition of hospitalisation in the policy booklet, so Ive thought about how 
this should be interpreted fairly. I think that hospitalisation costs without any specific definition should only apply to the cost of the bed space and nursing care for a 24-hour 
period. I dont think its fair to include any examination costs, as an animal may need to be 
seen on several occasions or by different specialists, and so I think that any additional costs 
for examination should be treated in the same way as any additional costs for tests. I 
therefore think this deduction should be removed and the full costs of the examinations 
added back into the claim.
Referral vet fees
C & G have deducted a further £1079.46 from the original claim as they said that these were 
unable to be considered under the claim from the original treating vet as the fee related to 
sedation, an echocardiogram, and ultrasound performed by a different veterinary practice, 
albeit on the premises of the original treating vet. 
Following the rejection, a separate claim was submitted by the referral vet and was paid by 
C & G. However, this was only for the value of £874.20 - for the echocardiogram and the 
ultrasound. The referral vet didnt include the sedation and monitoring. 
It appears therefore that the sedation and monitoring was undertaken by the original treating 
vet where M was hospitalised and shouldnt have been excluded from the original claim.  I 
am therefore satisfied that the deduction of  £205.26 from the original claim was not fairly 
made and should now be added back to the claim. 
Excess, co-payment and policy limit
Mrs Hs policy benefit limit is £4000 per condition in each policy period. The policy term says:
With Our Elite Extra Products - Vet fees including Complimentary Therapy, You can
claim per Condition up to the Benefit Limit of £4,000 in each and every Policy Period
of Insurance (less the applicable Excess).
What is not insured?
 Any amount that is more than the Benefit Limit as shown in Your Schedule
 Any amount shown as the Excess on the schedule. This relates to all
sections of cover
 The co-payment of 15% for dogs over 8 years of age and cats over 10
years of age
Policy Definitions
 Co-Payment Means the additional contribution You must make towards the payment
of a claim in the event Your pet is over a certain age.
For Cur policies, this is 15% of the remaining amount of a claim after deducting the
standard Excess. This is payable by You for each claim and every claim or continuation
claim if Your dog is aged 8 years and over, or if Your cat is aged 10 years or over at
the time of the claim.
 Excess Means the amount payable by You towards each and every claim, and as
further detailed in Your Schedule.
And so, the way that the excess works is that once it has been determined what the value of 
the claim is after deducting any restrictions under the policy, the excess is deducted, and 
then the co-payment is further deducted off the balance.
C & G have correctly applied the excess and the co-payment to the individual claims. However, they have then further capped the cumulative payments so that they have only 
paid a total of £3323.50, which C & G say is the maximum they can pay under the policy. 
They have calculated this as being £4000, minus the excess and a 15% co-payment.  They 
have said that this approach is widely accepted in the insurance industry.   
Im not satisfied that this interpretation is right and has been applied fairly. Once the amount 
payable for each claim has been determined by deducting all the restrictions, excesses and 
co-payments, the full amounts payable should be paid until the £4000 benefit limit is 
reached. 
The way that C& G have applied this effectively means that the excess and co-payment 
have been deducted twice, and so Mrs H hasnt received the full benefit of her policy benefit 
limit up to £4000. If C & G want to apply a policy benefit limit of £3323.50 for vets fees they 
should make this explicit in the policy, which they do not.  
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mrs Hs complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has accepted my findings and asked me to consider awarding her additional 
compensation and for an apology from C & G. I appreciate that this complaints process has 
been distressing for Mrs H, however, Im not able to make awards for any additional upset 
caused by a complaints process.    
 
C&G have responded reiterating that their policy terms are clear that the excess and co 
payment are deducted off the benefit limit. I dont agree with this. The policy booklet, IPID 
and policy schedule all refer to the benefit limit as £4000 for veterinary fees. So, I think its 
reasonable that Mrs H would expect to receive a maximum of £4000, and if the policy limit is 
actually £3323.50, that should be explicit in the policy. 
In addition, this reasoning doesnt make sense in cases like this where there are a series of 
small claims over the year, which might be for different conditions. As in Mrs Hs case, the 
excess and co-payment should be deducted from each individual claim at the time they are 
made during the policy year, as the benefit limit might not be reached in that year and so it 
cant then be deducted again from the benefit limit as a whole as that would mean it was 
being applied twice.   
Putting things right
In order to put things right, C & G should:
Recalculate Mrs Hs claim to include the full cost of fluid therapy, the in-patient 
examination fees, the Detolit, and the sedation and monitoring costs
Pay any additional monies due up to the policy benefit limit of £4000   
Pay Mrs H 8% simple interest on the sum payable from the date that the original final 
payment was made until the date of settlement.  My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint and direct Casualty and  General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to put things right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman