DRN-3710439
The complaint
Ms H complains about the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited under her home 
emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms H has home emergency insurance underwritten by Aviva. The administrator of that policy 
also provides an annual boiler service.
Ms H decided not to renew her policy in 2021 because of increasing premiums. When a 
potential new insurance provider checked the boiler, they refused to insure it because it was 
in a poor state of repair. 
Ms H eventually had the issues with the boiler sorted out, at considerable cost to herself. 
She complained to Aviva, saying that they had failed to pick up and fix issues with her boiler 
previously. 
Essentially, she thought the boiler couldnt have been well-maintained during the time she 
had the policy with Aviva. And she thought they should cover some or all of the costs shed 
incurred getting the issues fixed.
Aviva didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint, so she brought it to us.. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong.
Ms H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I need to be clear about exactly what elements of Ms Hs complaint our service 
can look into.
Ms H has a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by Aviva which covers her 
heating, plumbing and electrics. In brief - and at risk of over-simplification - Aviva undertake 
to provide assistance if Ms H has an emergency which leaves her without heating, hot water 
and/or power.
She also has an agreement with the business which administers the policy, according to 
which they provide an annual service for her boiler.
The administrator, in providing that annual boiler service, isnt providing a financial service or 
indeed carrying out an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
That being the case, and according to the FCA dispute resolution (or DISP) rules which 
govern the way our service operates, we cant look into that element of Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H said the administrator had missed a number of issues when carrying out the annual 
service which should have been picked up. These related primarily to the gas meter and the 
boiler flue. 
As I understand it, the administrator told Ms H they had no legal or contractual obligation to 
pick up those issues or report them to her. But they admitted their engineer ought to have 
noticed the problems and morally should have mentioned them to her, even if there was no 
obligation to do so.
As I say, we cant look into any of that because no regulated activity was being carried out, 
but I mention what happened in order to distinguish those issues  with the meter and flue - 
from issues with the boiler pump and heat exchanger that Ms H also experienced.
Ms H had to have these issues  with the pump and heat exchanger - rectified after the 
inspection carried out by the potential alternative insurance provider. 
I can look into those aspects of Ms Hs complaint because those issues were identified 
during an engineers visit in December 2020. That visit wasnt an annual service, it was the 
response to a claim made by Ms H under her insurance contract with Aviva.
During that visit, which as I understand it was primarily to address issues with Ms Hs 
immersion heater, the engineer also noted that the boiler pump was noisy. 
It is possible that the noise from the pump heard on the visit in December 2020 was an early 
manifestation of the problems with the pump and the heat exchanger which later had to be 
fixed. I say that is possible, rather than probable, because it was several months after that 
visit that Ms H got the further report on the state of her boiler. 
In any case, the policy terms say:
Where the engineer identifies additional work is required which is not associated to 
the original problem reported you will need to raise an additional claim(s) and another 
excess must be paid.
In this case, the additional issue  with the noisy pump  wasnt associated with the original 
problem Ms H reported  which was with the immersion heater. 
We know the engineer reported the issue with the noisy pump to Ms H, because she said so 
herself in her compliant letters to the administrator. And at that point, it was up to Ms H to 
make a new claim if she wanted that issue to be addressed.
In other words, neither the administrator nor Aviva are to blame if the noisy pump issue 
wasnt addressed until after Ms H had decided not to renew her cover with Aviva. Or if Ms H 
was then refused a policy by the alternative insurer at least in part because her pump  and 
heat exchanger  werent in good condition 
It is very likely in any case that if Ms H had made a further claim relating to the noisy pump, 
Aviva would not have been responsible for fixing it under the terms of the policy. The most 
likely cause of a noisy pump  and indeed a failed heat exchanger  is sludge, rust or scale 
in the water in the central heating system.
And we know the water in Ms Hs system was contaminated because that was shown by 
tests carried out by the company Ms H got to carry out the necessary repairs after she tried 
to sign up with the alternative insurance provider.The policy contains a very clear exclusion clause which says that Aviva will not cover 
damage caused by sludge, rust or scale.
Ms H has made the argument that if the issues were caused by sludge, rust or scale, then 
the annual service shouldve picked that up and identified that the filters in her system 
werent working effectively. But filters wont eliminate all of the contamination in the water. 
And, in any case, as Ive explained, I cant look into any alleged failing with the annual 
service.
In summary, Ms H had a number of issues with her boiler, the boiler flue and her gas meter 
which she had to pay to get repaired. And these led to her being unable to take out a policy 
with another insurance provider unless and until the repairs had been carried out.
Some of those issues  with the flue and meter - should arguably have been picked up by 
the annual service in 2019 and/or 2020. Thats not something I can look into, for the reasons 
Ive given above. But in any case, Aviva would never have been responsible for those 
repairs anyway. The issues didnt constitute an emergency and were due to poor or faulty 
installation.
The other issues  with the pump and heat exchanger  were possibly evident at the time of 
the engineers visit in December 2020. But they were reported to Ms H, who could then have 
made a further claim, as required by the terms of the policy. 
In any case, they were very likely caused by sludge, rust or scale in the water in the system 
and so would not have been covered by Ms Hs policy.
In conclusion, Ms H has had to pay for a number of repairs in order to get her boiler into a 
satisfactory state to be able to take out a new insurance policy. I cant reasonably conclude 
that any of those repairs would at any point have been covered by Ms Hs policy with Aviva.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman