DRN-4094394
The complaint
Mr K complains that he is unhappy with the performance of his personal pension with Utmost 
Life and Pensions Limited. Mr K thinks Utmost have mismanaged his savings.
Mr K is concerned by the amount his plan has gone down by and would like Utmost to 
recompense him for his investment losses.
What happened
Mr Ks policy was originally taken out in July 1985 through Multiple Health and Life 
Assurance Limited. That company was then subsequently acquired and following a 
succession of other business takeovers and mergers, Mr Ks pension is now with Utmost.
Mr Ks pension was invested in Utmosts Pension Managed Series 3 fund. The aim of the 
fund is to provide capital growth in the long term by investing mainly in a combination of 
asset classes including equities, fixed income, property and cash. Utmost class the fund as 
medium risk meaning it has the potential for moderate to high levels of price fluctuations.
After receiving a statement showing his pension had gone down in value, Mr K decided to 
complain to Utmost in November 2022. In summary, he said that he was unhappy with the 
performance of his plan and wanted to understand why he could expect to get back less 
than he thought.
After reviewing Mr Ks complaint, Utmost concluded they were satisfied theyd done nothing 
wrong. Utmost explained that the war in Ukraine along with the surprise change to 
Government fiscal policy in the Truss mini budget of September 2022, combined with rising 
interest rates, had a negative impact on the value of Mr Ks pension fund. Utmost went on to 
explain that despite the volatility, their fund is in a similar position to other comparable funds.
Mr K was unhappy with Utmosts response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he repeated the same concern  namely that Utmost had mismanaged his money.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Utmost 
hadnt treated Mr K unfairly. In summary, he also said that the performance of Mr Ks 
pension was subject to the investment markets it was exposed to but that didnt mean 
Utmost had mismanaged his savings. Our Investigator went on to say that it was up to Mr K 
to determine the level of risk he wanted to take with his pension and had he wanted to, he 
couldve asked Utmost to reduce the level of risk his monies were exposed to.
However, Mr K disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that if the 
illustration that Utmost issued in August 2021 was not guaranteed, he failed to see why they 
bothered issuing a projection in the first place. He went on to say that as the figures were 
reliant on interest rates, they shouldnt be affected by the war in Ukraine.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Mr K had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to. Mr K then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr K has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I can well understand Mr Ks concerns at seeing his pension fund fall in value - particularly at 
a time when he was reaching his 75th birthday and would likely need to be drawing on his 
benefits. Whilst I fully understand the strength of feeling Mr K has about the issue, Im not 
upholding his complaint. I appreciate thats probably not the news Mr K was hoping for but Ill 
explain why below.
Whilst I can consider complaints about investment performance, in most instances, I would 
need to see evidence that Utmost had done something wrong and cant just rely on actual or 
perceived poor performance. Thats because, even if the fund has underperformed 
compared to the rest of the market, we dont usually think this proves the fund was 
mismanaged. Many consumers have seen the value of their pension funds fall over the last 
18 months given the economic conditions not just across the UK, but wider financial markets 
too. So to be clear, this isnt just an Utmost issue, and its something many other consumers 
are having to face at other businesses too.
Utmost have explained they dont have any documentation from the time the pension was 
taken out so theyre unable to comment on whether Mr K received any advice. In any event, 
even if Mr K had received advice at the time, there was no requirement in 1985 to provide 
the consumer with a suitability letter setting out the reasons for the recommendation. In his 
correspondence with this service, Mr K explained that he had no idea why Utmost had 
invested his monies in their medium risk fund. However, as Mr K was 38 years old when he 
took the plan out, I dont think it was unreasonable that he went into a medium risk fund 
given the time he had left until his intended retirement age. Thats because, with such a long 
investment horizon until his retirement, had his monies been placed in a cash or low risk 
fund, hed have likely found himself worse off than he is now because his investment 
wouldnt have benefited from the same returns.
Ive listened to the call when Mr K originally logged his complaint with this service. He 
explained to our call handler that he believes that when the value of his pension kept failing, 
Utmost shouldve advised him to take his money out. However, I dont agree. Thats because 
whilst Mr K was paying Utmost to manage his money for him, he wasnt paying them to 
provide any personalised financial advice. The decision on how much risk Mr K was 
prepared to take with his money, which funds to invest in and when he should sell his 
investment wasnt down to Utmost to decide - it was Mr Ks decision. Utmost was only 
responsible for managing the monies Mr K had invested with them and Mr K wasnt paying a 
fee to Utmost to receive advice from them. Despite not providing Mr K with any personalised financial advice, I have seen evidence of Utmost prompting Mr K to seek guidance as he 
neared his 75th birthday.
Utmost wrote to Mr K in October 2019 explaining some changes they were making to the 
underlying management of their funds. In that document, it explained what a medium risk 
category meant. And, their letter also explained Mr K should regularly review his investments 
to ensure they were still in line with his goals. It also went on to explain that should he wish, 
he could switch some or all of his savings into a different fund. Details of the alternate funds 
available were then provided. But, unless Mr K had instructed Utmost to alter his funds, I 
wouldnt have expected them to make any changes. As such, I dont think Utmost acted 
unreasonably by leaving Mr Ks monies invested in the same fund.
The Pension Managed Series 3 fund didnt have a life-styling element built in. A life-styling 
option works by gradually reducing the level of risk a fund takes the closer a consumer 
edges to retirement. But, even if Mr Ks monies had been invested into lower risk funds as 
he neared retirement, that doesnt necessarily mean hed have avoided seeing his pension 
decrease in value; funds invested in corporate bonds and gilts (which are lower risk 
investments) have also been negatively impacted by the recent economic climate. 
On 1 July 2021, Utmost sent Mr K a statement showing what his projected benefits might 
provide him. Amongst the information contained within the letter, it stated:
These figures are only examples and are not guaranteed  they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you will get back depends on how your investment grows and 
on the tax treatment of the investment.
You could get more or less than this.
Your pension income will depend on how your investment grows and on interest rates at 
the time you retire.
Ive also seen other pension statements sent to Mr K that confirm the value will vary from 
day to day and is not guaranteed. So, I think Utmost have been clear in their 
communications with Mr K that they offered no warranties about the value of his plan in the 
future.
In his response to our Investigator, Mr K said that if the illustration that Utmost issued in 
August 2021 were not guaranteed, he failed to see why they bothered issuing a projection in 
the first place. He also explained that his statement showed the plan had a projection value 
of between £28,000 and £30,000. He went on to say that as the figures were reliant on 
interest rates, they shouldnt be affected by the war in Ukraine.
However, I think Mr K has misinterpreted the projection - whilst any income he receives from 
his final pension sum shouldnt be affected by the war in Ukraine, thats only the case once 
the underlying investments have been sold down and converted into an annuity (a product 
that provides a guaranteed income for life). Until that point, the fund is reliant on investment 
performance and can go down as well as up. Thats why when Utmost sent Mr K a 
projection, they included a range of possible figures rather than a definitive amount his 
pension may be valued at when he reached age 75.
Businesses provide projections to consumers to help them plan for their retirement. Theyre 
important because it helps the consumer understand what they might get back when they 
decide to retire, so they can organise their finances accordingly. Businesses quote standard 
rates of return because it gives the consumer an indication that if their fund delivered a 
return equal to or above the stated rate, thats the figure they could expect to receive at retirement. The format of those projections is set out by the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority. This ensures that consumers are provided with information/ projections in 
the same way regardless of who their provider is. But, a projection is just that: an estimate of 
a future fund value based on a set of assumptions.
Upon reaching his 75th birthday, Utmost disinvested Mr Ks plan and placed his monies into 
a cash account where its currently sat awaiting his instruction. During the time which Mr K 
has held his investment, Utmost have sent him annual statements. Had Mr K scrutinised his 
statements during those 37 years, he wouldve seen the value of his monies regularly vary in 
value from year to year so it wouldve been clear to him his monies were subject to changing 
investment performance and not guaranteed. 
Finally, just because Mr K hasnt seen the returns hed hoped for, it doesnt mean Utmost 
have mismanaged the fund. The Financial Conduct Authority has a wide spectrum of rules in 
place that Investment Managers must follow when running their funds. Those rules require 
Investment Managers to have robust governance structures in place to ensure consumers 
funds are managed appropriately and in accordance with their policies. Utmost and its third-
party Investment Manager is accountable to the regulator for the way in which it operates its 
fund and the regulator in turn monitors the management of those funds. Its not the role of 
this service to audit Utmost or the decision-making processes and controls of its third-party 
Investment Manager. However, I am not aware of the regulator having any concerns about 
the operation of Utmosts Pension Managed Series 3 fund at issue here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and I wont be asking Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to 
take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman