DRN-2863212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) unfairly applied interest to 
their buy-to-let mortgage after they had made overpayments.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs H took out a buy-to-let mortgage with TMW for £189,981.42. 
The mortgage had a fixed rate until 30 September 2020. So from 1 October 2020 Mr and 
Mrs H could make overpayments without an early repayment charge (ERC) being applied.
On 1 October 2020, Mr and Mrs H paid a lump sum of £155,000 to the mortgage. On 5 
October 2020 they paid a further lump sum of £15,000 to the mortgage. Despite that, when 
TMW collected their monthly payment on 15 October 2020 it charged interest on the original 
balance. Their monthly payment didnt reduce as expected until the following month.
Mr and Mrs H say that TMW should have charged interest on the reduced balance when 
they made the lump sum payments. They say that TMW has effectively imposed a penalty 
by charging intertest on the reduced balance.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that TMW had acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
A clause allowing a lender to charge interest on an amount that has been repaid is 
unfair. It is an unjustified penalty unrelated to any loss suffered by the lender.
The term was unfair under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 as it favours TMW to such an 
extent that the rights and obligations of the parties are disproportionate. 
The term will be unfair if it causes a significant imbalance in the parties rights and 
obligations under the contract to the detriment of the consumer. 
A one-sided contract is unfair if contrary to the requirement of good faith it causes a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the contract to the 
detriment of the consumer.
The investigator said that Mr and Mrs Hs points didnt change her mind. 
Mr and Mrs H said that the interest rate went up on 1 October following the initial two-year 
fixed rate. To avoid paying the increased amount they paid lump sums. But they found they 
were subject to a penalty by paying interest on money they were no longer borrowing. If they 
had delayed making the payment they would still have been charged interest at the higher 
interest rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs H accepted the terms and conditions of the mortgage. That 
includes condition 4.2 (d):
Any payment which is made to credit of your account in any month (including a monthly 
payment, large overpayment or small overpayment) will reduce the capital balance on the 
first day of the following month.
TMW has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And Im satisfied that 
the condition was sufficiently clear and prominent.
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs H that TMW has applied a penalty. A penalty has a distinct 
meaning in law  it is a provision in the contract that applies where there has been a breach 
of contract. But there has been no breach of contract here. Rather, the contract allowed Mr 
and Mrs H to make overpayments and for TMW to use the overpayments to reduce the 
capital balance the following month. 
I must take into account the relevant law (amongst other things) in deciding, in my opinion, 
what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. I think the 
investigator was wrong to say that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the Act) wouldnt apply to 
mortgages. Part 2 of the Act covers unfair terms in consumer contracts  that would include 
residential mortgage contracts. 
The difficulty here is that Mr and Mrs H arent defined as consumers under the Act. That is 
because to be a consumer they must have been acting for purposes that were wholly 
outside their trade, business or profession. Mr and Mrs H had a buy-to-let mortgage. They 
were effectively running a business in letting a property  even if they may not see it as that. 
So I dont consider the Act applies to them here.
Ive already found the condition was clear and prominent. I also think it was transparent and 
unambiguous. Mr and Mrs H have not told us that they made TMW aware of their intention to 
make overpayments before they entered into the contract. In my experience, there is likely to 
be some cost to the lender when overpayments are made. So I dont think that applying 
interest in this way is inherently unfair or one sided. 
Overall  and in the individual circumstances of this case  I dont consider that TMW has 
acted unfairly by applying the terms and conditions that Mr and Mrs W agreed to and that 
were set out clearly and transparently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman