DRN-4472196
The complaint
Mrs A complains she withdrew money from her account with Bank of Scotland Plc trading 
Halifax (Halifax) and later noticed £20 was missing.
What happened
Mrs A says she went into branch on 12 January 2023 and withdrew £300 in cash over the 
counter. A few hours later, after work, she realised £20 was missing. Mrs A would like this 
£20 back. Mrs A also says that when she went back into the branch to report this, the 
cashier at the branch made a rude comment to her.
Halifax says that they have no record of a branch cash error from the branch that day  so 
they say Mrs A wouldve received the full amount when she made the withdrawal. Halifax 
say they have spoken to the manager of the branch and the cashier in question is known for 
always being polite and friendly. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt that Halifax had not done anything wrong, 
so they didnt have to pay anything to Mrs A. Mrs A was not happy with this outcome, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint against Halifax, and Ill explain 
why. 
Halifax have provided evidence to show there were no recorded errors in their cash tills for 
the 12 January 2023 in the branch that Mrs A used. They have also provided a till receipt to 
show Mrs A withdrew £300. I havent received any persuasive evidence to suggest that the 
staff at Halifax were responsible for the missing £20  so I think its likely Halifax provided 
Mrs B with the full £300 in cash. 
Mrs A has provided evidence to suggest that a member of the public may have taken money 
from her. However, this is an allegation of theft and would need to be dealt with by the 
police. 
Mrs A also complained that a member of staff was rude to her when she returned to the 
branch to report this incident. Ive thought about Mrs A has said and what Halifax have said 
about the member of staff in question. From everything Ive seen, I dont have enough 
evidence to say that Halifax provided poor customer service in this instance, and I think its 
likely that this was a misunderstanding.
I cant say what exactly happened to the £20 that went missing and I understand that Mrs A 
is very upset about this. However, I dont think Halifax have done anything wrong here, so I 
wont be asking them to pay anything to Mrs A.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman