DRN-4142708
The complaint
Ms C complained that when Nationwide Building Society set up her remortgage, it used 
incorrect bank details, and didnt send a payment of £500 cashback she was expecting. She 
also complained that its information was poor, and about how difficult it had been to contact.
What happened
Ms C said she transferred her mortgage to Nationwide in summer 2022, but things hadnt 
gone smoothly. She said Nationwide didnt send her the information she expected on the 
transfer, she only got this weeks later. And she said Nationwide had been extremely difficult 
to contact, as its helplines werent open during the full advertised hours. So shed repeatedly 
called only to be told the line was closed, and promised call-backs hadnt been made.
Ms C said shed asked both her solicitor and her broker to update her bank details with
Nationwide, but Nationwide hadnt updated the details. She said she managed to do this
herself, on a call on 2 August. But shed not received £500 of cashback that she was
expecting for moving her mortgage to Nationwide. She was eventually told this had been
sent, but not to the right account. She said she still didnt have it, and was now missing out
on interest that money could have earned.
Nationwide hadnt responded to Ms Cs complaint before the case reached us, but when it
was referred to us, Nationwide sent us Ms Cs original application form. That did have the
wrong bank account details, for an account shed closed the year before. (Ms C wasnt
expecting Nationwide to have these particular account details. We now know this mistake
was made by Ms Cs broker, although this wasnt clear until sometime later.) Nationwide also
shared with our service a letter of 3 August which told Ms C Nationwide had set up her direct
debit using the correct details. Nationwide said it was only made aware of the change to Ms
Cs account information on 3 August 2022, and showed us contact notes to illustrate that this
information hadnt been passed to it earlier by either Ms Cs solicitor or broker.
Nationwide listed the correspondence it had sent to Ms C and her solicitor. It said her
mortgage offer was issued on 5 April 2022 and letters were sent to Ms C and her solicitor to
agree a date for the remortgage to complete. The certificate of title was received 25 July
2022, requesting funds on 29 July 2022. Funds were sent on this day and an email was sent
to Ms C to say her mortgage had completed. A letter was sent 2 August 2022 to welcome
Ms C to her new mortgage with Nationwide.
Nationwide said it would check if the expected cashback had been paid, and it didnt 
comment on Ms Cs allegations about how difficult it had been to contact.
Ms C said she still hadnt received the cashback. Our investigator checked, and Nationwide
thought at this stage that it hadnt been sent. It later confirmed it had been sent, but didnt
clarify that this had happened quite some time earlier.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Nationwide hadnt been
made aware of the change of bank details before Ms C called. And shed received a letter
about her new mortgage within a few days of it completing. But he thought that Nationwide
had only recently paid the cashback to Ms C. So he thought Nationwide should provide £100
compensation for the long delays Ms C faced in receiving her cashback and for the poor
service she received  being unable to contact Nationwide on several occasions during the
stated operational hours, which he thought had added to her frustration.
Ms C replied to say she hadnt received this cashback. Our investigator told her Nationwide
had confirmed it was sent, and he shared the bank details Nationwide had used. But Ms C
said those werent her bank details.
Nationwide then said that the payment had actually been made some months earlier, and
confirmed those were the details it held for Ms C at the time.
After some investigation, it emerged that Ms Cs broker appears to have given the wrong
account details to Nationwide when he processed her mortgage application. There had been
some confusion about this. Ms C had given her preferred account details to her broker then
closed and switched this account in July 2022, so she knew her details needed to be
updated with Nationwide. But the details Nationwide held werent the details shed given her
broker as part of this application. Nationwide had details of a different account, which had
been closed and switched in 2021, well before the Nationwide mortgage application was
made. The broker appeared to have carried forward this outdated information from a
previous mortgage application.
Ms C said that not only were these account details not checked by Nationwide at the time of
her application, but the details for payment of cashback apparently werent updated when
Ms C gave Nationwide her new account details, and it updated her direct debit information.
Our investigator noted that although Nationwide hadnt checked the account details it
received were active, this mistake didnt originate with it. Ms Cs new bank had found a
payment of the right amount, but to add to the confusion, Ms C said it had told her that this
payment wasnt from Nationwide, so couldnt be her cashback.
Our investigator asked Nationwide to make this payment again, and it said it wouldnt. It said
it had sent the payment to Ms Cs account, using the account details it had been given by
her broker, on 8 August 2022. And it said it hadnt had this payment back. It also wouldnt
pay the £100 in compensation that our investigator recommended, because it didnt think it
had made a mistake.
Our investigator said Nationwide should have updated all Ms Cs details in early August,
when it updated her direct debit account. And he repeated that Nationwide should send this
money now. Nationwide then said it could show this money had been forwarded on to the
account Ms C had switched to in 2021. It said this happened on 9 August, although that
bank still said it hadnt received any money from Nationwide.
Ms C said she would accept that the payment of £500 she could see in her new account 
must have come from Nationwide after all, although her new bank was still insisting the 
payment came from elsewhere.
Our investigator then summed up the position for both sides, saying hed previously said
Nationwide should pay £100 compensation for delays in providing the cashback and also for
the customer service Ms C received. Hed since received confirmation that the cashback
was sent in August 2022, so the point regarding the cashback being delayed no longer
stands. However, because Nationwide had sent the payment to outdated bank details, and
delayed in confirming that the cashback was actually sent in August, he still thought that a
payment of £100 in compensation would be fair. He noted that Ms C had spent a significant
amount of time trying to resolve this issue from her side and had waited a total of six monthsto finally be told what exactly happened with the funds.
Nationwide wouldnt pay that. It said Ms C would have seen this payment on her new bank
account statements at the time. And it hadnt been asked to update the payment details for
Ms Cs cashback, when Ms C gave it new account information for her direct debit. The
cashback just wasnt discussed on that call. Nationwide didnt agree that it had delayed
confirming where the cashback was paid to, and wouldnt pay compensation.
Ms C also replied to our investigators summary. She said that although the mistake over the
account details had originally been made by her broker, if Nationwide had checked then it
would have seen this account was closed. And she said if Nationwide had been able to
provide a reference number for the transaction she wouldnt have had to take time off work
to go to two banks, and get statements for closed accounts. She also said Nationwide
should have updated all her details when she asked it to.
Our investigator said the original fault with the account details wasnt Nationwides, but he
agreed that Nationwide should have updated all Ms Cs bank details on 2 August. And it had
taken Nationwide a significant amount of time to confirm the cashback had been sent and
not returned, which had caused Ms C inconvenience, although it would also clearly have
been easier for Ms C if her new bank hadnt told her this payment of £500 at around the right
time had come from somewhere else, definitely not Nationwide.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Ms C complained about the contact she had from Nationwide when she remortgaged 
with it. Nationwide has listed the letters it sent, and I do think it did enough to tell her 
about the new mortgage account it was setting up for her.
Ms C understood Nationwide had the wrong account details for her  although she didnt 
realise then exactly how this had gone wrong. So she gave it new details. Like our 
investigator, I think these details should have been applied across the board then, and 
Ms Cs cashback should have been paid to this account. I know Nationwide says it didnt 
discuss payment of her cashback on a call to change her direct debit details, but I dont 
think Ms C should have had to specifically request that those details also be amended, 
on the call she made to tell Nationwide the old account was closed.
I accept that a considerable amount of the confusion I can see here has been caused by 
mistakes apparently originating with Ms Cs broker, and with her new bank. But I think 
some of the confusion was also caused because Nationwide didnt confirm promptly and 
clearly for our service whether the cashback payment had been made, if so, when, and 
whether it had been returned. And, importantly, I think that all of the confusion over the 
cashback payment could have been avoided if Nationwide had just used the new details 
it had received about a week earlier, when it made this payment.
Ms C told us how difficult she found it to contact Nationwide. Nationwide doesnt appear 
to have dealt in detail with this point, but I can see that webchats with it record she 
complained that the number Nationwide had given her to call its mortgages team wasnt 
answered after 5pm, although it was advertised as open until 6pm. Nationwide gave her 
another number, but it appears this wasnt answered either. Nationwide doesnt seem to me to have contested that it was, at that time, difficult to contact. So I think its more 
likely than not that, whether or not this problem persists now, Ms C did find it very 
difficult to get in touch with Nationwide during the later part of its advertised opening 
hours, when she was trying to make her complaint. I have taken this into account in my 
assessment of this complaint.
For the above reasons, I do think Ms C has received some poor service from 
Nationwide, because it sent her cashback payment using old account details which Ms 
C had already acted to replace, because it hasnt always been contactable during its 
advertised hours, and because it didnt clarify promptly when and where her cashback 
payment was sent, as well as whether it had been returned or redirected. For these 
reasons, I propose to ask Nationwide to pay Ms C £200 in compensation. I think that 
would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it had nothing to add. Ms C replied to mention some further points. 
Ms C said that the funds sent to her solicitor by Nationwide werent to a closed account  - 
they were to an open account she was then using. Ms C thought this showed Nationwide did 
hold other correct and fully functioning bank account details for her when the settlement was 
made. So she said she had no reason to suspect Nationwide held closed and incorrect bank 
account details for her. 
What Ms C has said, indicates that the funds from Ms Cs mortgage were released to her 
solicitor, not paid directly to Ms C. And I think its likely that her solicitor then forwarded those 
on to Ms C, using bank details that the solicitors firm held for her. So I dont think this 
payment indicated that Nationwide held the right account details for her.
Ms C said that when she called Nationwide initially, she rang because she didnt have any 
paperwork to tell her what her direct debit amount was, what the payment date would be, 
and the account it was coming out of. She said she was worried, as she would have 
expected Nationwide to tell her this, and it hadnt. She said that was what triggered the 
conversation about her bank account, and Nationwide hadnt mentioned this. 
I can see Ms C complained about not receiving information for her direct debit on 1 August 
2022, when her new mortgage was due to start. She said to Nationwide then .. I changed 
Bank Accounts a few weeks ago, and advised my Solicitor but have no idea if they told 
Nationwide plus I have no paperwork from Nationwide. Nationwide has told us it didnt get 
Ms Cs change of bank details from her solicitor or broker, so it didnt know about her new 
account details until 3 August. Before that, it held the old account details, for an account 
which was actually closed and switched in late October 2021. And that is where Ms Cs 
cashback was sent. 
I know that Ms C said to our service later that she thought her broker and solicitor had 
updated Nationwide with her new account details, but, as I noted in my provisional decision, 
Nationwides contact notes dont show that either the solicitor or broker had sent this 
information on. So I do think the initial error with Ms Cs account details wasnt Nationwides 
fault, because it did get the wrong details as part of the application her broker made for her, and because neither Ms Cs solicitor nor her broker then appear to have amended these 
details when Ms C moved her account.
I can see a letter from Nationwide, dated 2 August 2022, in advance of her first direct debit 
payment in mid-August. That letter doesnt tell Ms C which account the direct debit will be 
taken from, but it does contain all the other information that Ms C was concerned not to have 
received. I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to have issued this letter very shortly 
after Ms Cs mortgage started, rather than before. 
Nationwide says it got Ms Cs new account details on 3 August, and I can see it then sent 
another letter, dated 3 August 2022, to set out details of the account her direct debits would 
be taken from. For the reasons set out above, I think this is the first time Nationwide received 
these details. Ive explained above that I think the account details used to pay her cashback 
should have been updated by Nationwide at the same time as the account details used to 
claim her direct debit payments.
Finally, Ms C also said Nationwide did not respond to her complaint initially in a timely 
manner and it didnt call back as promised. Ms C said she knew this was noted in my 
provisional decision, but she wanted to stress that she had to chase and complain several 
times. She said if Nationwide had a robust complaints procedure in place and kept the 
promises made by the customer services team then the need to bring a complaint to our 
service would have been avoided.
I have noted Ms C found Nationwide difficult to contact, and I accepted she had problems 
reaching someone who could help her. I also said that one of the reasons for my decision to 
uphold her complaint (although she had in fact been paid the money that she initially 
complained about not receiving) was that Nationwide didnt clarify promptly when and where 
her cashback payment was sent. So I have taken account of the fact that it took a very 
considerable amount of time, and a referral to our service, to resolve Ms Cs core complaint.
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Ms C £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman