DRN-2021083
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H opened a credit card account with Barclays in 1995. In 1997 he upgraded his credit 
card account. At the same time, he took out a PPI policy to protect his credit card 
repayments against accident, sickness and unemployment.  Mr H applied for the upgrade 
and the PPI by post.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
based his view on the information that hed received from Barclays at that point. But after the 
adjudicator sent out his view, Barclays contacted us to say that Mr H had, in fact, opened the 
account in 1995, and the policy was sold when he upgraded the account in 1997. He applied 
for the upgrade and the PPI by post.
Mr Hs representatives have been provided with the new information, and with a copy of 
Mr Hs signed application for the upgrade and PPI, but they havent provided any further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs signed application for the upgraded account. Theres a section 
on PPI for the Barclaycard Gold Card, with equally prominent options to take or decline 
the cover. Some letters and/or numbers have been written across the box to tick for the 
yes option. But Im satisfied, on balance, that theres a tick in the box, to indicate that 
Mr H wished to take the cover. By contrast, in a section of the form in which there are, 
similarly, equally prominent options to take or decline PPI for the Barclaycard Gold 
Reserve Account, theres a tick in the no box. Theres no such tick in the section on PPI 
for the Barclaycard Gold Card.
I think it was clear from the way PPI was referred to on the application form that it was 
optional. And Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr H decided to take it, knowing he had a 
choice.
Mr H applied for the PPI by post. I think its unlikely that he discussed the application 
directly with Barclays staff, or that Barclays advised him to take out the PPI. This means 
that Barclays didnt have to check that the PPI was right for Mr H. But it still had a 
responsibility to give Mr H enough information for him to decide for himself whether he 
wanted the PPI, knowing what other means hed have had of keeping up with his 
monthly credit card repayments if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job.
I acknowledge that Mr H has told us hed have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But if 
hed made a successful claim on the policy, it would have helped with his monthly credit 
card repayments for up to 12 months. Thats longer than Mr H has told us hed have 
been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if hed made a 
successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr H received from his employer. So he could have used those 
to meet other day-to-day expenses. And he wouldnt have had to use his savings to 
make his monthly credit card repayments.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr H chose to 
take out the PPI. So it looks as if he wanted this type of cover, even if hes 
understandably forgotten this, so many years later. Based on what hes told us about his 
circumstances at the time, Mr H was eligible for the PPI, and he wasnt affected by any 
of the main things it didnt cover. So Im satisfied hed potentially have been able to make 
a successful claim on the policy.
The policy was competitively priced, and apparently affordable for Mr H. And as he was 
paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if his 
circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr H off taking it out.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Barclays didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman