DRN-3982350
The complaint
Mr J complains about a default Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos 
Card, who Ill call Argos, reported to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I dont think Argos have done anything wrong here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Most credit providers wont record an account as being in default just because one payment 
has been missed. Therell usually be a trigger point. The Information Commissioners Office 
suggests an account should be defaulted when the account is no less than three months in 
arrears and no more than six. 
Here the account was defaulted when Mr J was three months in arrears, so I think that was 
reasonable. It wouldnt have been reasonable not to have defaulted the account as if the 
account continued to accumulate interest that would place even more burden on Mr J.
I can see that Argos sent arrears reminders to Mr J and that they communicated their 
intention to default the account correctly in the Notice of Default they sent to him in July 
2022. 
As Mr J didnt pay the arrears in full before the deadline given in that default notice I think 
Argos were fair to terminate the account. In those circumstances they would then seek to 
recover the full account balance.
Mr J says he wanted to agree a repayment plan before the default deadline, but that Argos 
didnt agree that repayment plan until after his account was defaulted and the default was 
reported to the credit reference agencies. It seems Argos didnt have enough information to 
establish what would be sustainably affordable for Mr J at the time. Mr J says that they 
eventually agreed repayments of £5 per month against the account balance of nearly £600. 
An account may also be recorded as being in default where an arrangement to pay has been 
entered into and the arrangement is for repayment of a sum substantially less than required. 
Here I think that was the case and Argos explained that to Mr J in the call he had with them 
shortly before the account was defaulted. 
Ultimately, I dont think Argos have done anything wrong or need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman