DRN-2624830
The complaint
Mr D complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as NatWest, has recorded incorrect 
information on his credit file. He would like it removed. 
What happened
Mr D has several accounts with NatWest including two current accounts; a sole account and 
a joint account with his ex-wife. In early 2019 the joint account exceeded its overdraft limit. In 
March 2019 Mr D received communication from NatWest indicating its intention to close his 
accounts together with a formal demand for payment of the £383.45 excess on the joint 
account.
Mr D contacted NatWest on 25 March and set up a payment plan of nine payments to cover 
the excess. He started to make the repayments. In May NatWest wrote to Mr D again 
concerning his accounts. It said the payment arrangement had been broken. Mr D brought a 
complaint to NatWest. He said hed been told hed missed a payment, but he hadnt. He also 
said a default marker had been filed on his credit report.
In its final response NatWest said the credit file was reporting correctly and that no bank 
error had been made. It also confirmed that no default had been recorded. Mr D did not 
agree and brought his complaint to this service. He maintained that incorrect information had 
been recorded ever since his account had gone into collections.
Our investigator noted an arrangement to pay had been reported to the credit reference 
agencies between April and June 2019 and this matched the information provided by 
NatWest. She also noted the account was still in arrears and had been since January 2019 
and that the payment plan had broken. So, she confirmed the data recorded on Mr Ds credit 
file was correct. She also confirmed a default had not been recorded. Mr D wasnt satisfied 
so the decision came to me.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 28 January 2021. I said:
Its not disputed that the joint account was in arrears because Mr Ds payments fell 
short of the interest on the account. He set up an arrangement to pay in a call on 25 
March 2019. Its also not disputed that Mr D went into unauthorised overdraft on his 
sole account. This overdraft occurred on 22 May, during the period when the 
payment arrangement was in place. I can see from bank statements provided that Mr 
D also made a deposit on 22 May which was credited to the account the next day, 
bringing it back into credit.
NatWest has said the payment arrangement failed because of activity on Mr Ds sole 
current account. It said when a customer exceeds their account limit while in a 
repayment plan the system automatically breaks the plan and issues a letter to the 
customer. NatWest went on to say that when Mr Ds sole account went into excess it 
triggered a break in the joint account repayment plan. It said the consequence of 
breaking a repayment plan would be that all Mr Ds accounts would be defaulted. 
Im not disputing that such action is part of NatWest terms and conditions for an 
arrangement to pay agreement. But Im not persuaded Mr D was fully aware of how 
the plan could break or what the consequences would be. NatWest provided a copy 
of the call recording from 25 March which I listened to in full. After the plan had been 
agreed the operator said:
 "you will receive a letter in the post to confirm the details. This is going to 
show on your credit file as an arrangement to pay. In order for this repayment 
plan to remain active you need to ensure all accounts remain in a satisfactory 
position and you're not going into any unarranged borrowing of your 
accounts. If this repayment plan breaks there will be further contact through 
telephone calls and letters but as long as you keep to the arrangement, theyll 
be no further contact" 
Mr D then asked for it to be confirmed in writing. And the operator reconfirmed it 
would be and went on to say: 
As long as the arrangement doesnt break you wont receive any contact 
from us whatsoever, youll get no further notice really as long as the 
arrangement continues to stay in place, the money keeps paying towards the 
arrangement, everything will be fine from that point, as long as the 
arrangement doesnt break, if it gets broken thats when we will get back into 
contact with you, ask why its broken and try and set up another arrangement 
with you. 
The operator did say Mr D needed to ensure he did not go into any unarranged 
borrowing, but he later appeared to suggest that if the payments were made 
everything would be fine. Mr D made the payments, it was when his sole account 
went overdrawn on 22 May for one day, in unrelated transactions, did the 
arrangement break. The operator also didnt explain what would happen if the 
arrangement broke. It appears, from what the operator said, that the only 
consequence would be further communication from, and with, NatWest. He didnt tell 
Mr D all his accounts would be defaulted, as NatWest has told this service would be 
the case.
NatWest also said Mr D would have been issued a repayment plan letter. Mr D asked 
for such a letter and was told twice on the telephone it would be sent. But 
unfortunately, NatWest hasnt been able to locate the repayment letter. Ive also 
looked at the contact notes provided by NatWest. I can see closure letters issued on 
20 March and 29 May. I can also see call notes for the call on 25 March. But I cant 
see a record of the plan letter being generated. Im not disputing the letter was 
generated and sent, but without some evidence that the consequences of the 
arrangement breaking were explained by telephone or in writing, it wouldnt be fair of 
me to assume Mr D had a reasonable understanding that activity on his sole current 
account would affect the payment arrangement on the joint account to the extent it 
would put his accounts at risk of defaulting.
I was minded to conclude that Mr D wasnt reasonably aware of the consequences of his 
sole account going into unarranged borrowing. And I was inclined to instruct NatWest to 
correct his credit file and award Mr D £100 for the distress and inconvenience this had 
caused him. NatWest accepted my provisional decision. Mr D believed he had been denied 
credit based on this incorrect information and provided some further information for me to 
consider.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive concluded that my provisional decision stands. 
Mr D has provided evidence that he has been denied credit. Ive thought carefully about this 
information and I believe while it is possible the incorrect marker may have contributed to the 
declined credit, I think its also likely there were other factors that contributed. So it wouldnt 
be fair for me to hold NatWest solely responsible. 
In an email dated 24 May 2019 Mr D was denied a business overdraft facility with NatWest 
itself. At this point Mr D had an early arrears marker (March 2019) and the payment 
arrangement for his joint account on his credit file. He also had a personal loan with NatWest 
with an outstanding balance of £8,427. Mr D went over the limit on his sole account overdraft 
on 22 May 2019. Im satisfied its possible the existing personal loan, personal overdraft and 
markers in and of themselves may have contributed to NatWests decision to decline the 
business overdraft.
Mr D applied for a loan with an alternate provider and was declined on 10 June. Typically 
lenders update their information to credit reference agencies every 30 days and its possible 
the incorrect marker wasnt on the credit files used by this new lender at the time. But even if 
it was I think the previous other adverse markers, loans and overdrafts may have contributed 
to the lender declining the loan.
I can see Mr D also applied for two further loans in July and car finance in August. All of 
which was declined. Im sorry to see Mr D was having trouble obtaining credit. But, as per 
my reasons above, the other markers, overdrafts and loan accounts may have contributed to 
this. 
When Mr D requested credit from these lenders they would have viewed his full credit file to 
look at the level of risk. This search is known as a hard credit check. While a credit decline 
will not be recorded on the credit file, the hard search will be. Lenders would be able to see 
when Mr D applied for credit which can impact the credit score. I havent seen a copy of Mr 
Ds full credit report, so I cant say for certain, but it may contain a record of each 
subsequent hard check which would impact the future lenders assessment of risk. 
Putting things right
On the screenshots I have seen of Mr Ds credit file it says he is in early arrears in March 
2019, an arrangement to pay in April and May and sustained arrears for June and July. For 
the reasons Ive outlined above  and in my provisional decision NatWest should correct this 
so that his credit file reflects that the payment arrangement did not break. I also instruct 
NatWest to pay Mr D £100 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused him.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Maxine SuttonOmbudsman