DRN-2181355
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has treated them unfairly when 
pricing their building and contents insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Is house has been insured with UKI for a number of years with the policy in the 
name of Mrs I. But for ease of reference unless stated otherwise, Ill refer to their actions 
collectively as Mr and Mrs I throughout my decision.
Unhappy with their renewal quote in 2019, Mr and Mrs I decided to see what the cost of 
insuring their home would be if the insurance wasnt in their names, but a name they felt 
didnt indicate any particular ethnic background. They did two new quotes, one with the 
insured as Mr I and the other with a pseudonym name but they kept all other details the 
same  so the address, policy limits and excesses matched on each quote. 
They received two different quotes for their address. The quote requested in Mr Is name 
gave a price of £672.00 for the year. The quote under the pseudonym name cost 
considerably less and the insurance was offered for £453.60. Mr and Mrs I took this as proof 
that their name was the driving factor with UKI and the price it was offering them. It felt it was 
discriminating against them because of their race, treating them differently to the pseudonym 
name.
UKI looked into Mr and Mrs Is complaint and said the price it offered was correct. The price 
of the insurance it offers is based on a number of different risk factors and the price is 
subject to change. But name, ethnicity nor nationality are factors which its ratings are based 
on. And it confirmed it complies with all discrimination legislation. 
UKI did explain that its quotes do use information specific to the policyholder when pricing 
policies and this comes from credit reference agencies. If information cannot be validated it 
might influence the price. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs Is complaint and didnt think UKI had done anything 
wrong. She considered how it had increased the cost of the policy in Mrs Is name overtime 
and didnt think it had treated her unfairly here. And she felt UKI had explained why there 
was a difference in the price quoted for Mr I when compared to the  pseudonym name and 
that it hadnt done anything wrong here either.
Mr and Mrs I disagreed. They reiterated that with all other details on the quote being the 
same bar Mr Is name, that they were convinced that UKI was treating them differently 
because of their name. As they disagreed with our investigators assessment, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs I, but Ill explain how Ive reached my decision and why I dont 
think UKI has done anything wrong with how it has treated them when pricing their policy.
The crux of this complaint is Mr and Mrs I believe UKI has discriminated against them 
because of their ethnic background. They feel the different prices offered with different 
names gives an indication of this and UKI has taken account of it when deciding how it views 
the overall risk for their insurance. 
Race is a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010, but its important to be clear 
that my role isnt to decide whether there has been a breach of the Act as this is something 
which will need to be decided by a court. When deciding what is fair and reasonable, I have 
taken account of this as well as all other relevant rules and regulations which UKI must work 
within. And while I cant tell UKI how it should view and price the risk it offers to insure, I can 
check that in applying its view of the risk and that it has treated Mr and Mrs I fairly.
With the difference in the price of the two quotes provided by Mr and Mrs I, its 
understandable to see why theyre concerned that theyve been treated differently because 
of the only perceived changing factor  their name compared to the name of pseudonym. 
UKI has explained how this pseudonym name has impacted the quote it is able to generate 
and why there is difference.  Its not been able to find the exact quote that Mr and Mrs I 
received but looking through its system it has found two quotes which match the details 
provided by Mr and Mrs I when they did their test quotes. It has used these to help explain 
what has driven a difference in price. 
The price on the two quotes UKI retrieved showed that a policy with Mr I as the named policy 
holder gave a price of £645.12. A policy with the same insured property and policy limits and 
benefits and date of birth but for the pseudonym name gave price of £426.72. As the price 
difference in these two quotes is similar to difference identified by Mr and Mrs I, I think these 
quotes and the detail which sit behind them act as a fair comparison. 
UKI has said both of these quotes would have attracted new customer discount. The fact 
that the risk address and surname was the same for Mr I as the previous policy it provided to 
Mrs I wouldnt have stopped this new customer discount being applied to him. 
It also explained the credit score is an important factor when determining the cost of the 
insurance it is willing to offer. 
UKI explained why the name changing to the pseudonym name has provided a very different 
price to Mr Is quote. And from the information it has provided, Im satisfied UKI hasnt 
treated Mr and Mrs I unfairly with how it has priced their policy.
The name changing has resulted in a different price being offered, but it isnt as simple as a 
different name getting a different price  nor can it be taken that the perceived background 
or ethnicity of the individuals name being changed is the reason for the change in price.
Insurance pricing is based on numerous factors and the view a business takes on each of 
these helps to determine the price it feels it needs to charge  allowing for the risk of claims 
against its known expenses and expected profit margins. One of these factors is the 
information known about the policy holder, taken from credit reference information. As there is no one living at Mr and Mrs Is address under the name given on the dummy 
application sharing Mr Is date of birth, no credit reference information was returned for the 
pseudonym application. This differed significantly with the information received from Mr I and 
his quote as full credit reference information was returned for this.
This means the information UKI had to base its quote on for Mr I compared with the 
information on the pseudonym name was more detailed and it was able to rate on many 
more factors. I cant share with Mr and Mrs I how UKI views and rates the information it 
received from his credit reference as this is commercially sensitive. But it is clear to me with 
this being reviewed in addition to the other information about the property itself, that this is 
what has driven the increase in price.
The incomplete information for pseudonym name gave a different price based on the limited 
information that was returned. Its important to point out that if this quote was for a real 
individual and there were significant differences in what UKI knew and later found out, the 
price and cover could be affected. An insurer can only base its view of the risk its insuring 
on the information it is presented. If this later appears to be mis-represented or false, it will 
need to consider these and the appropriate remedy will likely have an impact on the either 
the cover or cost of this. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied UKI has treated Mr and Mrs I fairly when considering 
the price it is willing to offer to charge for their insurance. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest it has treated them unfairly or done anything differently with how its priced their 
policies overtime. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman