DRN-4056116
The complaint
Mr B complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) supplied him with faulty goods 
under a running account credit agreement. 
What happened
Mr B held two catalogue shopping accounts with JDW. In July 2022, he ordered an item 
using one of the accounts. It was delivered however the item developed a fault shortly after. 
Mr B asked for JDW to collect and replace the item. However, a number of collection 
attempts failed because Mr B says JDW didnt send out a returns label and/or no driver 
showed up. 
Mr B contacted JDW several times to complain. He says that JDW agreed to freeze both his 
JDW accounts until the issue was resolved. He says he understood this meant he wasnt 
required to make any payments and it wouldnt have any impact on his credit file. 
JDW arranged a refund of the item and some charges, apologised for the failed collections 
and offered him a further £50 to cover the costs of Mr B disposing of the faulty item. It said 
that it had only agreed a hold on payments for one month and that it expected Mr B to 
continue making his monthly repayments as there were other items on his accounts that 
were not in dispute, however, it agreed to pay a further £50 compensation by way of 
apology. Mr B continued to withhold payments as he wasnt happy with the resolution offered 
by JDW.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think our service had 
the power to look into Mr Bs concerns about the delivery and return of the item as that was 
a retail  not financial  dispute. She thought that JDW had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
way it had administered his running account credit agreements. This was because it had 
agreed temporary holds, refunded the disputed item and set out clearly that he would need 
to resume making his regular repayments. As Mr B hadnt done so, she didnt think JDW had 
acted unfairly in charging further interest and charges and recording these missed payments 
on his credit file. 
Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service can only consider Mr Bs complaint if it relates to an activity covered by our 
rules. Those rules can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook of rules and Guidance. DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities 
I can consider a complaint about. The parts that are relevant to Mr Bs complaint are: 
(1) regulated activities

or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with 
them.
The regulated activity that is relevant here is: exercising the lenders rights and duties under 
a regulated credit agreement. In other words, I can only consider any complaint Mr B has 
made which is specifically about his running account credit agreement with JDW or any 
ancillary activity carried out by JDW in connection to it.
JDW acted in two different capacities when dealing with Mr B. One is in its capacity as a 
provider and administrator of a regulated consumer credit agreement  this is the credit 
account Mr B used to make his purchase with JDW. The other is as a retailer of goods and 
services. This is an important distinction because our rules only permit me to look at 
complaints which relate to the provision of the regulated credit agreement or anything 
ancillary to it.
I cant investigate or comment on any complaint which relates to JDWs retail activities. This 
is because the retailing of goods or services isnt a regulated activity (or any other covered 
activity under our rules), and nor was it ancillary to JDW providing or administering the credit 
account. Instead, the providing and administering of the credit account was ancillary to the 
retailing activity rather than the other way around. This is demonstrated by the fact that Mr B 
was free to use other payment methods to pay for the goods he ordered if he wanted to.
The key part of Mr Bs complaint relates to JDWs retail activity, that is the ordering, delivery 
and return of goods purchased. While the purchase of the goods was funded by the running 
credit account, his complaint about the purchase, delivery and return of those goods doesnt 
relate to the provision of the credit agreement, other than to say it is unfair he has to 
continue making payments towards the credit despite failures with the retailing activities.
I can consider Mr Bs complaint points that relate to the credit account. These include, the 
fairness of JDW seeking repayment from him, the information it gave him about repaying 
and the impact on his credit file as a result of non-payment. 
The credit agreement and its terms and conditions dont set out any contractual obligations 
on JDW, as a credit provider, for the purchase and delivery of the goods. The terms limit 
themselves to the provision of a credit facility and the associated repayment terms. There is 
nothing within the credit agreement terms that might limit Mr Bs liability to pay for purchases 
in the event of a dispute. However, JDW (as the credit provider) could decide on a case by 
case basis to offer forbearance or other measures to assist a consumer if it was appropriate. 
I can see that JDW did offer to place Mr Bs accounts on hold in August 2022 when he 
discussed the issues he was having with the return of the item. Mr B says the agreement 
was that the accounts would be placed on hold until the dispute was resolved. JDW says the 
hold was only agreed for one month. 
Ive reviewed the transcript of the conversation Mr B had with JDW and I dont think it was 
made clear how long the hold would be for. I can understand why Mr B was left with the 
impression it would remain in place until the dispute was resolved. However, I note that Mr B 
was explicitly told around a week later that the hold would only be in place for one month. 
So, although he might have initially thought it was longer, he was given the correct position 
soon after. 
At around this time JDW also refunded the full cost of the faulty item, even though it had yet 
to be collected from him and it applied a credit of £25 to cover interest and charges. Although Mr B had received everything back for the purchase that was in dispute and hed 
been told hed need to keep making payments towards other purchases hed made, he still 
continued to withhold payments. 
While I understand that Mr B felt very strongly about the poor way JDW had dealt (and 
continued to deal) with him in relation to the collection of the faulty item, I dont think JDW 
acted unfairly and unreasonably in seeking repayment on his running account credit 
agreements. As Ive set out above, Mr B had contractually agreed to make repayments 
under the credit agreement and JDW had only agreed to a temporary hold of one month. 
Mr B says that he was told in a different conversation that the hold would be in place until the 
dispute was resolved to his satisfaction. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that was the 
case. However, even if I agreed with Mr B that he was told that following the 
communications in August 2022, Ive listened to a phone call he had with JDW in December 
2022. In this call JDW makes it explicitly clear again that there is no hold on his credit 
accounts and he is expected to make payments. While Mr B doesnt agree with that position 
in the call, its clear he understood what JDWs stance was. Although hes chosen not to pay, 
I cant fairly say that JDW were obliged to agree to that. 
Ive noted that in that call in December 2022, JDW agreed as a gesture of goodwill to clear 
all existing arrears on his credit accounts and waive a further month of charges as well as 
pay an additional £50 compensation for the upset caused. I think this was a fair way to try 
and resolve things. As Mr B has continued to not make contractual payments to his credit 
accounts after this point, I dont consider it unfair or unreasonable for JDW to have added 
charges and interest in line with the terms and conditions of the credit agreements. Nor do 
I think it is unfair or unreasonable for it to have reported those missed payments with credit 
reference agencies. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman