DRN-3174557
The complaint
Mr Y complains about poor service by Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) after
his vehicle was damaged in a road traffic accident, and he claimed under his motor
insurance policy with Admiral. He also complains that the vehicle was returned to him
damaged with the repair incomplete.
  
What happened
In July 2020, Mr Y agreed with Admiral the work that needed to be done to his car after
damage to its front bumper. In August 2020 he took the vehicle to one of Admirals approved
repairers. It was nearly four weeks before he was told the repair had been completed, by
which time his MOT certificate had expired. So he was without the vehicle for a further two
days until he could renew this.
Mr Y complained to Admiral, in summary, that:
the vehicle was returned to him with cracks in the wheel arch where it was connected 
to the replacement bumper;
a bolt securing the wheel arch lining was missing;
he was unreasonably charged for damage to a courtesy car; and
he had experienced delays, poor communication, difficulty in accessing courtesy 
cars, and lack of quality control during the repair process.
Admiral accepted, and apologised for, a number of the matters Mr Y complained about, and
paid him £100 as compensation. However, it had arranged for the cracks in the wheel arch
to be examined by an independent assessor. It said:
The assessor advised the area has accident type scratches around the crack in the wheel
arch spoiler. The assessor has reviewed the images from the repairer and cannot see the
damage on their images. Therefore, the assessor advised the damage is not related to the
incident or repairs.
Mr Y wasnt satisfied with Admirals response and complained to us. Our investigator didnt
recommend that this complaint should be upheld.
In relation to the cracks in the wheel arch, the investigator thought the repairer would have
noticed and mentioned these in its initial assessment if they had been present before it
started the repairs. In addition, the independent assessor appointed by Admiral had
determined that the cracks were neither incident nor repair related, and that they most likely
happened post-repair. So he didnt think Admiral was responsible for repairing these.
Regarding the other matters, the investigator agreed that Mr Y had good reason to complain
about his repair experience. However, he said Admiral had taken Mr Ys complaint seriously,
including appointing an assessor to look at his vehicle, and had accepted the assessors
recommendations. It had apologised a number of times for its various service failings, and
had awarded Mr Y £100 for the inconvenience he suffered, which he thought was
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Y responded to say, in summary, that the crack on the base of the wheel arch did not
occur after the vehicle was returned to him on 9 November 2020. He had complained about
it on 11 November 2020, as soon as he was able to inspect the repair work. He asked that
his complaint be reviewed.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mr Y and to Admiral on 8 October 2021. In it I said that in 
relation to the issues other than the wheel arch damage, I agreed with the investigator that
Admiral has dealt appropriately with Mr Ys complaint about these by apologising and paying
Mr Y compensation of £100. So I wouldnt say any more about these matters.
As Admiral maintained that the wheel arch damage didnt appear on the photos taken by its
repairer before it began the repairs, I had asked Admiral to consider circumstances in which 
this might have happened in the course of the repair before the vehicle had been returned to 
Mr Y.
Admiral had responded to say that it had asked one of its senior inhouse engineers to 
consider this. He had provided the following expert opinion:
Reviewed, looked at the incident circs as reported, the original Approved Repairer
estimate/images and the Independent Assessors report on file. Having done so the issue in
regards the left hand front wheel arch trim/moulding is clearly as result of an inappropriate
and poor prior repair to the arch trim. This trim has been previously repaired using filler
which is not a recognised repair method for plastic components using compatible products
(such as plastic welding materials and stopper/fillers. Clearly this process has not been
followed in this repair which has then resulted in complete failure of the inappropriate filer
repair for around 3cm of the arch edge which has split along the edge thereby exposing the
poor inappropriate repair. This was not cause in the incident or by the Approved Repairer in
the repairs.
From the image on the Independent Assessors report this arch trim was not repairable and
should have been replaced and not repaired, or if repair attempted then plastic welding
would have been required to reinforce the repair which clearly has not been done here the
result is that this trim (no matter how many times repair attempted) will fail in the same way.
(the repair has failed not "sprung open").
This trim is decorative and as such the bumper replaced in the claim is not directly fixed to
this arch trim, the bumper is fixed to the vehicles body/chassis and so no major forces were
used or applied to this arch trim in the repairs that would have resulted in this split. This was
not present when handed back following the claim repairs, It has occurred over time and is
due to the flexing of the wing liner and arch trim which has then caused the inappropriate
arch repair to fail, It is not as result of the repairs carried out by the Approved Repairer.
I would suggest the Policy Holder returned to the party who did this repair however from the
file the Policy Holder does not know who carried this out, all I could then suggest (depending
on what warrantee the Policy Holder obtained at point of sale) returns to the seller for
rectification of this failed repair.
I noted that Mr Y had responded to this suggestion to say that:
he had bought the vehicle directly from a main dealer in that make of vehicle in 
September 2012, and no such poor quality repairs had been made to the wheel arch 
while in his ownership;it wasnt plausible that given the extent of the damage resulting from the accident 
with deflected structural steel elements, the crack did not result from the accident. 
The glass fibre arch was connected to the bumper which was replaced in the repair; 
and
with specific regard to the filler comment, the evidence remained unchanged on the 
vehicle. The crack profile was unchanged, the wheel arch and all its paint coating 
were factory original and there was no evidence of filler whatsoever.
I had also asked Admiral to produce the repairers pre-repair estimate containing the photos 
it took of the vehicle at that time. The investigator had asked for these earlier, but they hadnt
been provided at the time he came to his view.
Having been able to study these photos, I said couldnt see that they showed the affected 
part of the wheel arch sufficiently to be able to say that the crack wasnt present before 
repairs began. So I didnt think they provided any evidence as to when, or how, the damage 
occurred. I therefore discounted the independent assessors conclusion, based on the 
photos, that the damage wasnt related to the accident or the repairs.
Also, I noted that the recent suggestion by Admirals inhouse engineer that the damage was
the result of a poorly executed repair with inappropriate filler was made on the basis of
looking at a photo, and without inspecting the damage. Mr Y, who still had the vehicle in his
possession, said emphatically that there was no sign of any such repair.
I said that where the evidence before me was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as 
some of it was here, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is what I 
considered most likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider 
surrounding circumstances.
I thought that, given the close proximity of the wheel arch damage to the accident damage 
and the other circumstances Id described, it was most likely that:
the damage to the wheel arch was caused by the accident and was simply missed by 
the repairers when they inspected the vehicle at the outset, or (less likely) occurred 
during the course of the repair; and
either way, it was present when the vehicle was returned to Mr Y by the repairers, 
and wasnt caused later by Mr Y.
So I thought Admiral was now responsible for meeting the cost of repairing this damage as 
part of Mr Ys insurance claim.
I said that subject to any further comments and evidence I received from either Admiral or 
from Mr Y by 5 November 2021, I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay the cost of repairing this wheel arch damage. I 
said that Admiral could choose to use one of its approved repairers to do so, but not the 
repairer it had used to carry out the accident repairs to the vehicle.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral responded that its inhouse engineer now said, in summary, that:
its approved repairers would check a damaged vehicle on arrival to assess the 
damage and also check for any transference to other panels/components. Any 
damage present would have been imaged, and included in the assessment or raised 
with Admiral. As the damage to the wheel arch moulding was quite pronounced, he 
was satisfied it wouldnt have been missed by the repairers estimator if it had been present at the time; and
the engineer conceded that his previous advice that the damage was the result of a 
previous poor repair could be incorrect. However, as he didnt think the damage was 
present when the vehicle was assessed by the repairer, or when it was handed back 
to Mr Y, he still considered it was unrelated to the accident and due to a secondary 
incident.
Mr Y responded to say, in summary, that in his view, and contrary to what Admirals inhouse 
engineer now said, the initial assessment by the approved repairer wasnt properly carried 
out, and so the damage to the wheel arch moulding was missed.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view remains as set out in my provisional decision. Given the close 
proximity of the wheel arch damage to the accident damage and the other circumstances 
Ive described, I think its most likely that:
the damage to the wheel arch was caused by the accident and was simply missed by 
the repairers when they inspected the vehicle at the outset, or (less likely) occurred 
during the course of the repair; and
either way, it was present when the vehicle was returned to Mr Y by the repairers, 
and wasnt caused later by Mr Y in some secondary incident.
  
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Admiral should now meet the cost of repairing the damage to the 
wheel arch moulding as part of Mr Ys insurance claim as set out in my final decision below.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Admiral Insurance Company Limited to 
pay the cost of repairing the damage to Mr Ys wheel arch moulding. Admiral may choose to 
use one of its approved repairers to do so, but not the repairer it used previously to carry out 
the accident repairs to the vehicle.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman