DRN-2711339
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that Motorpoint Limited misrepresented the PCP hire purchase
agreement for his car, specifically about the guaranteed future value. He complains they told
him he would have a guaranteed deposit towards his next car at the end of the agreement.
What happened
In August 2016, Mr C saw a car on the Motorpoint website that he was interested in buying.
He asked for them to transfer it to his local branch so he could view the car, and there he
decided he wanted to buy it. He arranged the purchase through a Personal Contract
Purchase scheme (PCP) called Boomerang. This included a guaranteed future value/final
payment of £8085 at the end of the 3-year monthly payments. Motorpoint acted as the
broker in this finance agreement.
At the end of the 3 years, he returned to the dealer but was told his car was only valued at
£6,800. He is complaining that when he took out the PCP plan, he was told by the sales
person that after the 3-year agreement, there would be a deposit towards a new car when he
traded the car in for another car.
An investigator here looked at Mr Cs case and agreed that he had been mis-sold the PCP
agreement. Motorpoint did not agree with this decision and asked for an Ombudsman to
review the case.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 March 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr C is alleging there was a misrepresentation about the guaranteed future value by the
broker of the finance agreement, Motorpoint. So, I have considered if the broker made a
false statement of fact that persuaded Mr C to do something he might not have done
otherwise.
Mr C has provided us with his recollections of his plans to buy the car in 2016, and what
happened at the dealership. He has told us that he always bought his cars with unsecured
bank loans, because he believed he could get lower interest rates this way. He also thinks
this is a better way to buy a car as you start to pay off the money borrowed for the car
instantly, whereas with car finance he believed you would only be paying interest for the first
12 months whilst the car depreciates.
Mr C has told us that he planned to get a 5-year unsecured bank loan at around 4.5% to buy
the car, but that when he told the dealership this, they spent around an hour persuading him
to buy the car on their PCP Boomerang finance. Mr C says that he was told this would give
him a deposit for his next car if he came to trade the car in after 3 years. Weve asked Mr C
for any evidence of previous bank loans he took to purchase cars, or for the details of the
4.5% loan he planned to get to buy this car. Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, this
evidence is no longer available to him.
There isnt a written or recorded record of what Mr C was told by the sales person, and it
appears the sales person is not available to comment on what happened. I have of course
carefully considered what Mr C has said, but after doing so I am not persuaded that he was
told something different to the actual position laid out in the finance agreement. It seems
likely that Mr C unfortunately misunderstood what was meant by the guaranteed future
value. In then considering what is fair and reasonable, I have looked at what opportunities
there were for Mr C to have understood the correct details of the agreement.
The finance agreement is with a finance provider, with Motorpoint acting as the broker for
this finance agreement. The paperwork confirms that the cash price of the car was £14,197.
This was being financed by a deposit of £1272.48, followed by 36 monthly payments of
£261.55, and a final payment of £8085.
It also confirms that the total charges for credit are £4,576.28, with an APR of 14.9% and an
interest rate of 13.95%. This information is all provided on the front page of the agreement.
It also states that the guaranteed future value of the car is £8075. This document is
electronically signed at 6.28pm on the day of purchase by Mr C.
Alongside this, Mr C was provided with a Consumer Finance Demands and Needs
Assessment. This 2-page document is physically signed by Mr C with a time of 6.40pm on
the same day, so it is reasonable to assume that this was presented and discussed at the
same time as the finance agreement.
Page 2 of this document focuses on providing what it calls Basic Product Information. This
explains the PCP Boomerang agreement, and how it means that at the end of the term, the
consumer has 3 options. They can pay off the final payment (£8085) in full to own and keep
the car. They can hand the car back and walk away. Or they can trade the vehicle in against
another vehicle.
This document then also goes on to explain the option of instead financing the car through a
personal loan, organised by the consumer themselves with their bank or other finance
company. It explains this would mean the car was owned by the consumer from the start and
would be their responsibility. This document is then signed by both Mr C, and Motorpoint, at
the bottom of page 2.
I am satisfied that this document makes clear the options Mr C had to finance the car.
Alongside the finance agreement, the paperwork provided details all the key information
about the costs, the interest rate payable, and how the PCP agreement works. I dont think
anything here is unclear.
Mr C has told us he is concerned because he believed the guaranteed future value of the car
was provided by Motorpoint. But he has since been told it is in fact the finance company who
provide this guaranteed figure. In the context of his complaint, I dont think this has an
impact. The finance agreement confirms that the guaranteed future value and the final
payment required to own the car are broadly the same (there is a £10 difference, one is
£8075 and the other £8085).
Mr C would have been able to hand the car back and receive the guaranteed final value of
£8075 for the car at the end of the agreement, to clear the remaining finance. He is
frustrated at only being offered £6,800 by the dealer to trade his car in. But this ignores the
fact that he still owed £8085 on the finance agreement, so he could still give the car back,
clear the finance as he would receive the guaranteed future value, and then arrange finance
to buy a new car.
I understand his frustration that this doesnt leave anything additional for a deposit on his
next car. Any additional value on the car for a deposit would always be dependent on the
market value of his car 3 years down the line, and unfortunately this value doesnt seem tohave held up as well as Mr C or the finance company would have hoped. But its important to
recognise that some of the downside here is with the finance company.
As Mr C has pointed out, having researched the value of his car, the market value at the end
of the finance agreement appears to have been no more than £7,000, but if he wanted to, he
could have given the car back which would have cleared the remaining finance of over
£8,000. So, whilst I accept that the finance company have benefitted from interest charged
on the agreement, there is an argument they would have partly then lost out in these
circumstances. They would be clearing the remaining finance of over £8,000 but being left
with a car worth no more than £7,000.
Theres no mention in the written evidence of any guarantee of a future deposit for Mr Cs
next car. Mr C also hasnt told us of any figure he expected for this future deposit, other than
being told the guaranteed future value for the car was around £8000. I dont think its
reasonable that Mr C would have expected a deposit of £8000 towards a new car, and the
finance agreement makes clear that Mr C would still owe £8085 at the end of the three-year
agreement.
I can appreciate that sometimes, confusion can occur. But if there had been any confusion in
the conversation with the sales person, Mr C then had the opportunity to read the paperwork
provided, which could have cleared any confusion up, or at least highlighted any areas that
differed from his understanding. Mr C has told us that he was already aware of the
differences between personal loans used to buy a car, and car finance products, and I think
its clear that the PCP finance arrangement has a final payment required of £8,085. So even
if Mr C had received an offer in the region of £8,000 from the dealer, this still would only
have been enough to clear the outstanding finance agreement and wouldnt have left him
anything to put towards a new car.
I think its reasonable to expect that a customer will read the paperwork being provided and
signed for a finance agreement. The key details here about the type of finance, the
guaranteed future value, the amount still owing after 3 years and the interest rate being
charged, are in the main sections of the paperwork. They are not hidden within any terms
and conditions pages.
I have thought about whether Mr C would reasonably have been expected to read and
understand the details about the guaranteed future value. Mr C has told us that when buying
cars, the interest rate payable when buying with a personal loan is usually far lower, and he
planned to use a personal loan with 4.5% interest rate. The finance agreement shows that
the interest rate payable was much higher at 14.9% APR. Because of this, I would have
expected him to check all the details of the agreement and the guaranteed future value, to
ensure he wanted to change his plans and not use a lower rate personal loan to buy the car.
I am satisfied that even if there had been a misunderstanding about the meaning of the term
guaranteed future value when speaking to a sales person, Motorpoint provided Mr C with
all the correct information in the agreement and other paperwork. He then had a reasonable
opportunity to question anything which didnt match his understanding. For these reasons, I
am not persuaded that Mr C was given inaccurate information that has caused him to act to
his detriment.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I now invite both
parties to make any further comments and provide any further evidence by the deadline
date. I will then make my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C came back and expressed his disappointment at my provisional decision. He said he 
knows what he was told by the salesman, which was that the reason its called a Boomerang 
deal was because it meant people came back every 3 years knowing they already had a 
deposit for their next car. He said he only took the deal because it meant he had a deposit 
for his next deal. 
He also came back and said if he had taken his own finance out in the first place (a bank 
loan) it would be coming towards the end of its term now and hed own the car, worth around 
£6,000, to use as a deposit for his next car. But as it is, he still has a considerable period left 
paying the finance for this car still. 
In my provisional decision above, I mentioned that there had been no suggestion of what the 
deposit on his new car would be. Again here, Mr C is saying that he thinks to have a deposit 
would have meant a value of at least £9,500. But there is no suggestion of a figure like this 
having been discussed in any conversations at the time. 
I am satisfied that in the conversations with the sales person, there has been confusion 
around what the deal was, and what Mr Cs situation might have been at the end of the 
finance agreement. But there is no written or recorded evidence about specifically what was 
said. And there does not seem to have been any figure quoted for a deposit towards a new 
car. 
Mr C feels that a deposit of £1500 would have been expected to justify a boomerang deal 
to take out a new agreement for a different car. (£9,500 is the value he would have expected 
at least for the car, less approximately £8,000 owing on the finance agreement). But he 
could have come back with a zero deposit, settled the finance and taken a new finance deal 
for a new car without a deposit. The Boomerang part of the name I believe is more about 
coming back to change car each time, not about a deposit on a new car. 
There is written evidence in the form of the paperwork filled in when Mr C bought the car. 
This evidence does not mention any future deposit, and it also outlines the different types of 
finance available, and how they worked. 
I sympathise with Mr C, but I am not persuaded that the agreement was misrepresented to 
him. It seems likely that there has been some confusion or misunderstanding in the 
conversations with the business about the finance agreement and how it worked. But they 
then provided Mr C with all the relevant paperwork which explained the finance agreement 
correctly.  
Mr C said he understood car finance, which is why he had always previously used his own 
bank loans to buy his cars. He felt this was the best way of financing a car based on his 
knowledge and experience. Im not persuaded that if that was how he felt, he would have 
chosen to take a different type of finance deal, based on an unspecified deposit available for 
his next car. As such, I wont be asking Motorpoint to do any more. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman