DRN-4465583
The complaint
Mrs H complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) unfairly withdrew 
cover under her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.  
What happened
Mrs H had a LEI policy which was underwritten by DAS. Following an incident at a 
shop, she sought to pursue a personal injury claim against the retailer using her LEI 
cover.
DAS accepted the claim and Mrs H was given a legal representative  who Ill refer to 
as L. L appointed a medical expert to review the injuries Mrs H said shed sustained 
during the incident. 
Mrs H attended the medical appointment but complained to L saying the expert had 
treated her unfairly and been discriminatory towards her. L investigated her concerns 
and obtained a response from the medical expert regarding Mrs Hs experience. In 
response, the medical expert said Mrs H had displayed discriminatory behaviour 
towards him.
In a telephone conversation with L to discuss the matter, L said Mrs H had made 
comments which though not directed towards its staff member, were offensive and 
discriminatory. L said the call was terminated as a result. And because it considered 
the comments to be unacceptable, L said it would no longer represent Mrs H. And 
based on this information, DAS subsequently withdrew cover. 
Mrs H complained saying L, and in turn, DAS decision to withdraw cover was unfair 
because she wasnt discriminating. 
In its final response, DAS maintained its position was fair, but it acknowledged it had 
taken longer than it should have to reply to Mrs Hs complaint and so, paid £100 
compensation.  
Unhappy, Mrs H brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it. Because Mrs H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  Ill explain why. 
DAS withdrew cover saying L had informed it Mrs H had made discriminatory and 
offensive comments during a call with a staff member and during an appointment 
with a medical expert which had been arranged by L. 
DAS said the policys terms and conditions allowed it to withdraw cover where the:
Appointed representative refuses to continue acting for you with good 
reason, or if you dismiss the appointed representative without good reason, 
the cover we provide will end immediately unless we agree to appoint another 
approved representative. 
Im satisfied the policy makes it clear that DAS can withdraw cover if the appointed 
representative has good reason for refusing to represent the policyholder. Here, L 
has refused to act for Mrs H on the basis that she made discriminatory comments. 
DAS was satisfied L had demonstrated there was good reason for no longer 
representing Mrs H. Whilst I appreciate Mrs H disputes she made discriminatory 
comments, Im satisfied DAS decision was reasonable based on the information it 
had been provided by L  which included an explanation as to why the call was 
terminated by its staff member, the medical experts response to Mrs Hs complaint 
about him, and its reasoning for why it considered Mrs Hs conduct to be 
discriminatory and unacceptable. 
Should Mrs H complain to the Legal Ombudsman about L, and it is established the 
allegations were unfounded, Id expect DAS to investigate things again. But as it 
stands, Im satisfied its decision to withdraw cover was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
DAS has paid £100 compensation to acknowledge it could have dealt with Mrs Hs 
complaint quicker and Im satisfied this amount reasonably reflects the frustration she 
felt at having not had a timely response to her complaint. 
Mrs H also complained L didnt inform her about a three-year time limit applying in 
respect of pursuing her personal injury claim through the courts. She says it should 
have made her aware of this when it terminated her retainer. But this Service cant 
investigate concerns about Ls legal advice as we dont have jurisdiction to do so. If 
shes unhappy about Ls alleged lack of advice, shed need to direct her complaint to 
the Legal Ombudsman. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman