DRN-1232470
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that TSB Bank plc failed to process two chargeback requests she made. 
And she said it closed her account without warning her.
What happened
Miss B told us that she had disputed two payments on her account. But TSB hadnt dealt 
with her complaint about these payments. Instead, it had closed her account.
After Miss B complained to us, TSB wrote to her. It said it had closed Miss Bs account 
following a review. It had written to her to tell her this was going to happen on 25 May 2018. 
And her account was closed on 25 July 2018. 
TSB said Miss B had raised a dispute about two payments made using her debit card, for 
£1,340 and £257.50. Those payments came out of her account at the start of June, before it 
was closed, and she challenged them in July. TSB said it had made a mistake about this, 
and it was going to give Miss B this money back now. It would also pay £150 in 
compensation and £6 for call costs.  
Miss B said she hadnt had the payments TSB had promised to make. And she thought TSB 
should pay more compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the terms of Miss Bs 
account say TSB can close it if it gives two months notice. He thought TSB had written to 
Miss B about this. He noted the amount Miss B claimed in chargebacks had now been 
refunded to her, and said he wouldve recommended a similar amount of compensation if 
TSB hadnt already paid £156. He said he wouldnt ask TSB to do anything further. 
Miss B wanted us to follow up on whether TSB had sent out the cheques to her with the 
money from the missing chargebacks. Our investigator did so, and he was able to give Miss 
B some information on which account the cheques had been paid into. Because Miss B had 
also said she wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, this case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at both parts of Miss Bs complaint. She wanted to complain about TSBs 
decision to close her account, and about its failure to process her chargeback requests. 
Ive reviewed the decision that TSB took to close Miss Bs account. I think that was in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate that it can be unsettling to find out 
that a bank account is being closed. But TSB doesnt have to offer Miss B a banking service. And it doesnt have to give a reason why its going to close her accounts, as long as it gives 
her the required notice. 
TSB hasnt shown us the actual letter it sent to Miss B about this, but its shown us the 
records on its system that say this letter was sent. I think its more likely than not that this 
letter was sent. I know Miss B has told us she didnt get this, but I dont think its TSB fault if 
Miss B didnt get the letter. 
Because TSB acted in line with the terms of Miss Bs account when it closed her account, I 
wont ask TSB to do anything more about this part of Miss Bs complaint now.
Miss B also complained that shed made two chargeback requests, which TSB hadnt 
responded to. TSB has apologised for that. Its repaid Miss B all the money from the two 
payments she was challenging. I understand Miss B didnt initially receive the cheques for 
these refunds, but they were then reissued and cashed. TSB has also paid Miss B £150 in 
compensation and £6 in call costs.
I think that by returning all the money from these two payments, and paying the additional 
compensation, TSB has provided a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Miss Bs 
complaint. So I wont ask it to do anything more about this part of Miss Bs complaint now. 
I know Miss B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman