DRN-3807165
The complaint
Mr J complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) did not make him 
aware that any transfer out of his pension plan to another provider would be carried out in 
cash and not in-specie (in its actual form.) Mr J believes SJP had a duty to explain this 
disadvantage of their scheme and wants SJP to compensate him for the loss he suffered 
when he transferred his pension monies to another provider.
What happened
Briefly:
In an email of February 2021, SJP provided answers to a series of questions Mr J asked it 
about transferring some pension monies from his SJP held pension plan to another provider.  
One of the questions Mr J asked was whether it was possible to switch his current holding to 
non SJP pension funds which can then be transferred in-specie. SJP said this wasnt 
possible because SJP only offered SJP funds. 
In April 2021 Mr J instructed SJP to transfer some of his pension plan monies to a different 
provider. SJP carried out the request, and in doing so, it sold the required number of units 
Mr J held in the invested funds and the transfer to the new provider was made in cash.
In 2022 Mr J, through his representative, complained to SJP. He said that SJPs refusal to 
offer an in-specie transfer was an unreasonable barrier to switching provider. Mr J said that, 
because the transfer was made in cash, he suffered a loss during the period the monies 
werent invested and wanted to SJP to compensate him for the loss.
SJP didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said in-specie transfers arent possible 
because Mr Js pension plan is an insured pension plan and is not available on any platform 
or through an external Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). It said Mr J was informed of 
this in an email from SJP in February 2021.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr J, via his representative, referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked at all of this and they didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they said SJP told Mr J that a transfer would be made in cash in its email of 
February 2021. They also said that theyd reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Js 
pension plan, which says that withdrawals / transfers would be carried out by cancelling units 
and paying the value of those units. They didnt think SJP needed to make this point any 
clearer and so they didnt think SJP had done anything wrong or were responsible for the 
loss Mr J refers to.
Mr J disagrees. In summary he said the focus of his complaint is not the information given to 
him when the request to transfer was made - but on the suitability of the advice from SJP at 
the time he made his pension contribution in 2019. Mr J says only offering transfers in cash 
is a disadvantage compared to many other pension products, something SJP ought to have 
explained at the time of making his pension contribution in 2019. He says SJPs failure to 
explain this is a failure to comply with COBS 9.4.7R (Conduct of Business Sourcebook  
Suitability reports  Contents) and so makes the advice unsuitable. Mr J says providing 
information in terms and conditions regarding the process of transferring out is not the same 
thing as explaining the possible disadvantages of having to disinvest and then reinvest. Mr J 
says that, had this disadvantage been explained to him, he couldve decided not to 
contribute to his SJP pension and gone elsewhere instead and so avoided the loss of £765 
when he transferred.
Mr J says that to put things right he wants SJP to compensate him for the £765 loss he 
suffered and wants SJP to modify its product to allow in-specie transfers. He says that, until 
it does, he believes SJP should make it clear that its product has a disadvantage compared 
to other pension products and this should be done before it advises a client to make a 
pension contribution.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Having done, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr J, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why, albeit I dont think theres much more I feel I can usefully add to 
what our investigator has already told Mr J.
It seems Mr J accepts that he was told prior to transferring some of his pension monies that 
SJP could not carry things out in-specie and that it would be done as a cash transfer, as the 
evidence available shows. Mr J says the focus of his complaint is that he believes SJP 
shouldve told him about this, which he refers to as a disadvantage, when he made a 
pension contribution with SJPs advice in 2019. Mr J says SJPs failure to do this 
contravenes the relevant rules SJP has to follow.
Ive not seen any of the paperwork relating to any advice Mr J might have been given by SJP 
when he made a further pension contribution in 2019. But I dont think its necessary for me 
to do so because Im not persuaded by what Mr J says. The nature of the pension product in 
question, as SJP explained in its response to Mr Js complaint, is that Mr J could only invest 
in SJPs range of funds. This is why transfers out in specie cannot be carried out  they have 
to be done in cash. The terms and conditions of the plan set out how transfers and 
withdrawals would be carried out  section 5.1  by cancelling units and paying the value of 
the units less any applicable early withdrawal fee. In my view, given the nature of the plan, I 
do not consider the transfer terms are unusual or a significant term, such that it was fair and 
reasonable for SJP to have explained it further to Mr J in the manner or at the time he 
describes. 
Ultimately Mr Js transfer of his pension monies in 2021 was carried out by SJP in line with 
the terms and conditions of his pension plan. These terms had been in place from the 
inception of Mr Js pension and I dont think the nature of the transfer terms meant that it was 
fair and reasonable for SJP to have explained them further to Mr J in the manner he has 
argued. For these reasons I dont think SJP has acted unfairly or unreasonably here, so it follows that I dont think SJP is responsible for the loss Mr J describes.
In closing I can see that to put things right Mr Js representative wants SJP to modify its 
product to allow in-specie transfers. But as I think Mr Js representative knows, it is not the 
role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell businesses how its products should operate 
and on what terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, so I make no award in 
Mr Js favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman