DRN-4438826
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the decision by The Original Holloway Friendly Society Limited 
(Holloway Friendly) to terminate his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr Z holds income protection cover with Holloway Friendly, the aim of which is to pay benefit 
if he cant work in his own occupation after a deferred period of four weeks. 
In 2022, Mr Z injured his elbow. He made a claim, and Holloway Friendly accepted this in 
January 2023. 
In March 2023, Mr Z told Holloway Friendly that his doctor didnt think further investigations 
were necessary, and that he was hoping to return to work on a phased basis. 
In May 2023, Holloway Friendly reviewed the claim. Mr Z confirmed that his elbow was much 
better, and the pain had stopped (apart from when lifting dumbbells). However, Mr Z said he 
had knee pain as well as workplace stress. Holloway Friendly asked Mr Z if he was 
medically unable to work, and he said no. Based on this, Holloway Friendly terminated the 
claim. Unhappy with this, Mr Z brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the evidence 
supported that Mr Z was able to go back to work.
Mr Z didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The incapacity definition which applies to Mr Zs policy is:
The total inability to perform all the essential duties of your own occupation and that you are 
not following any other occupation for profit or reward.
In terminating the claim, the onus is on Holloway Friendly to show that Mr Z no longer met 
this incapacity definition.
Mr Z told Holloway Friendly in May 2023 that his elbow pain no longer stopped him from 
working. However, Mr Z then told Holloway Friendly he had developed knee pain and stress 
which were new symptoms that prevented him from returning to work. 
Ive considered the available medical evidence, and I think its clear that Mr Z was 
experiencing anxiety relating to work. I note that he was considering raising a grievance with 
his employer. After Holloway Friendly terminated his claim, he underwent some counselling. 
However, the available evidence doesnt suggest that Mr Zs mental health problems were of 
such severity that they prevented him from working.
 
With regards to knee pain, again, its apparent that Mr Z was experiencing pain in his knee, 
and he was having investigations for this. However, he was still able to walk and run 
significant distances. There was no suggestion that his knee pain affected him at work. 
Mr Z had an occupational health assessment shortly after Holloway Friendly terminated his 
claim. The doctor considered Mr Zs reports of elbow pain, knee pain, and stress, and 
concluded that he could return to his usual occupation. I understand Mr Z did then return to 
work the following month, initially on a phased basis and then full-time. 
I note that before Mr Z stopped work in 2022, his employer sometimes asked him to help out 
in a different role within the company (if they were short-staffed). The occupational health 
doctor thought Mr Zs elbow problems would prevent him from doing that occasional work for 
a few more months. Though as our investigator has explained, the policy pays benefit if Mr Z 
cant do his own occupation, not occasional work. And therefore, in deciding whether it was 
appropriate for Holloway Friendly to terminate the claim, Ive only considered whether Mr Z 
could carry out the main duties of his own occupation.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Holloway Friendly to 
terminate the claim when it did. Mr Zs elbow pain was much better by that point, and he 
accepted that it wasnt stopping him from working. Although Mr Z had developed new 
symptoms relating to his knee and mental health whilst being off work, the evidence doesnt 
suggest that these symptoms impacted his ability to work.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman