DRN-2518261
The complaint
Ms J has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made 
under her home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Ms J reported damage to her home following an escape of water in 2018. Ms J raised a 
series of complaints which she received a reply to in June 2018. 
Ms J raised further complaints with Aviva, which it replied to in February 2020. Unhappy with 
the reply, Ms J contacted this service. She asked us to look at these complaints as well as 
complaints shed raised in 2018. 
Our investigator explained that Ms J hadnt contacted us in time to investigate the complaints 
she raised in 2018. So he investigated the complaints we could look at.
Ms J was unhappy that Aviva didnt agree to replace the fuse box as part of the works. Aviva 
provided an electric certificate from its contractor. It told Ms J that the electrics certificate 
hadnt passed for safety due to the fuse box. Aviva said its contractor didnt touch the 
existing fuse box, so it wasnt responsible for it failing.
Ms J says that a contractor of Avivas touched pipes under the bathroom while carrying out 
repairs and since then there has been a hammering noise when water is being used in the 
bathroom. Ms J believes Avivas contractor is responsible for the noise and wants Aviva to 
arrange for suitable repairs. Aviva said its contractors didnt carry out any works to the pipes 
in Ms Js bathroom.
Ms J was very unhappy with a discussion she had with contractors of Aviva who told her 
there was a risk the floor might fall in. Ms J was concerned this would be confirmed in a 
written report. Aviva said only a verbal discussion took place and it confirmed there was no 
written report relating to the possibility of the floor falling in.
Ms J said a stopcock had been sealed closed by an approved contractor. There was a 
further small leak and access was needed. Aviva said it instructed its contractor to repaint 
the area that was water damaged by the small leak and deal with the damage under this 
claim.
For the distress and inconvenience caused by the discussion about the floor and closing the 
seal on the stopcock, Aviva offered Ms J £300 compensation.
Aviva said if Ms J can provide an independent report to show that their contractors 
workmanship caused damage to the bathroom pipes and fuse box, it will reconsider.
Our investigator thought Aviva had done enough to resolve Ms Js complaint. Without 
evidence that the contractor had caused the damage Ms J claimed for, he thought Avivas 
approach was fair. 
Ms J didnt agree and provided further information. Ms J wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service cant consider every complaint thats brought to it. Our rules are known as the 
DISP Rules and are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. The rules say we 
cant consider a complaint if its brought to us more than six months after the date on which 
the respondent sent the complainant its final response unless there are exceptional 
circumstances or the business agrees. Our investigator explained to Ms J that the business 
hasnt agreed for us to look at these complaints. And there were no exceptional 
circumstances to consider, so this service cannot consider the complaints Ms J raised with 
Aviva in 2018.
While Ms J hasnt commented on our jurisdiction, some of the issues Ms J has raised 
following the investigators view relate to her complaints from 2018. For the reasons Ive 
explained, they dont form part of my decision.
Since Ms J brought her complaint to us, correspondence has continued between her and 
Aviva. Ms J provided an estimate from an electrician for £550 to replace the fuse box, which 
Aviva has agreed to reimburse Ms J for. 
Ms J provided estimates from plumbers, but none of these confirm that the water hammering 
is due to workmanship carried out by the contractors. Ms J told Aviva that another contractor 
told her in 2019 that Avivas contractor must have touched the pipes and this was causing 
the water hammer noise. But Aviva said its contractors didnt access or need to repair the 
pipes. So Aviva said there wasnt enough to uphold Ms Js complaint and pay for these 
repairs under the claim. Ms J asked for more time to provide a further report, which Aviva 
agreed to. 
I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show Aviva that its contractor is responsible for the 
water hammer noise in Ms Js home. And so I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably here 
in rejecting Ms Js claim, based on the information available to it. 
Dealing with any claim, particularly an escape of water claim, can inevitably cause a degree 
of inconvenience and disruption. I think it was poor workmanship for Avivas contractor to 
close a seal to the stopcock in Ms Js home. And I can understand the upset and worry 
caused by the comments a contractor made about the possibility of a floor falling in. So I 
think these failings unnecessarily added to the inconvenience Ms J was experiencing.
However, I think the compensation award of £300 which Aviva offered was fair and 
reasonable to put things right, as well as repairing the damage caused as a result of the 
sealed stopcock. And its shown that it has considered reports provided by Ms J in relation to 
the fuse box and water hammer noise. 
In November 2020 Aviva paid Ms J the £300 compensation along with the reimbursement of 
the fuse box works for £550. Ms J told Aviva that she didnt accept the payment of £300 
compensation. 
I can confirm that Ms Js acceptance of the compensation didnt prejudice her right to ask us 
to investigate her complaint.I understand Ms J is disappointed with Avivas handling of her claim. But I think Aviva has 
done enough to resolve her complaint. So this means Im not asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman