DRN-2499004
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with the Halifax in 2002 and bought the PPI at around the 
same time. The benefit of the PPI policy was split between Mr and Mrs H so that Mr H got 
75% and Mrs H 25%.
The PPI was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). A TMPP could be made up of three different elements  a PPI policy, life cover and 
critical illness cover. 
Mr and Mrs H took both the PPI and the life cover but they have only complained to us about 
the PPI, so thats what Ill look at in this decision. Mr and Mrs H say they werent told the PPI 
was optional and werent asked about their employment cover, which meant they didnt need 
PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint didnt uphold it. They disagree and 
so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give will help them to understand why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Because the sale was so long ago, Halifax doesnt have any of                  
Mr and Mrs Hs PPI paperwork. I dont think this is unusual or surprising. But from what we 
know of how Halifax sold these policies around this time and the documents weve seen in 
the past, I think its likely the paperwork Mr and Mrs H wouldve seen wouldve made it clear 
enough the PPI was optional. 
I know this isnt how Mr and Mrs H remember things and its possible, as they say, that 
Halifax didnt follow its usual sales process at the time and the PPI was positioned to them 
as part of the mortgage package. But Mr and Mrs Hs recollections arent detailed. And so, 
without anything else to back up what they say, I think its more likely  based on what we 
know about Halifaxs usual sales process at the time  that it made Mr and Mrs H aware they 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and they agreed to it knowing they didnt have to to get 
their mortgage. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it needed to make sure it was right 
for them. I dont know what steps Halifax took to do this but, from what Ive seen of the policy 
terms Halifax has given us and what Mr and Mrs H say of their circumstances at the time, I 
think it was. I say this because: 
 I havent seen anything to make me think Mr and Mrs H werent eligible for the policy. Its 
possible Halifax didnt advise them of the main policy exclusions and limitations which 
couldve made it more difficult for someone to make a successful claim. But I havent seen 
anything to make me think its likely Mr and Mrs H wouldve been affected by any of these. 
So I think they couldve claimed the full policy benefit if theyd needed to.
  I think the PPI gave Mr and Mrs H useful protection. They say they got good sick pay from 
their work and had some savings. But the PPI couldve helped cover Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage repayments for up to two years if either of them was off work because of sickness 
or an accident or if either of them lost their job. So it couldve lasted much longer than their 
sick pay and wouldve paid out on top of it. It would also have meant Mr and Mrs H didnt 
have to rely on their savings to pay the mortgage if things got difficult. A mortgage is a long-
term and significant financial commitment, and your home is at risk if you fall behind on your 
repayments. So I think having PPI wouldve given Mr and Mrs H the peace of mind that 
thered be help with their mortgage for some time if things got difficult. 
 I dont know what Halifax said to Mr and Mrs H about the cost of the policy. But it looks as 
if they could afford it, so I dont think its cost made it unsuitable for them. And they couldve 
cancelled it without penalty at any time if theyd decided they no longer needed it.
As well as making sure the cover was right for Mr and Mrs H, Halifax also had to give them 
enough clear information about the PPI policy for them to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether to buy it. Halifax hasnt said much about what it told Mr and Mrs H 
and, as Ive mentioned, theres no PPI paperwork. But, as Ive said, I think its likely they 
chose to buy the PPI and it was right for them. So I think clearer information would only have 
confirmed this to them. I dont think its likely it wouldve stopped them buying the cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman