DRN-4339606
The complaint
Miss H complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was
irresponsible to have agreed car finance for her in 2017.
What happened
MotoNovo entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car with Miss H in September
2017. The price of the car was £10,568. Miss H contributed £1,768.15 by part-exchange and 
borrowed £8,799.85. The total amount owing under the agreement (including the deposit, 
interest and fees) came to £12,812.75. The monthly instalments were £184.06 for 59 months  
with a final payment of £185.06.
As it was a hire purchase agreement, MotoNovo remained the vehicle owner until Miss H 
had made all her repayments and so she was, in essence, paying for the use of it. Miss H 
made her payments by direct debit. She made late payments throughout the term and 
incurred default interest charges. I understand that there is an outstanding balance of 
£1,644.47 on the account as of March 2023.
Miss H complained to MotoNovo that she struggled to meet her repayments over the years. 
She said it didnt carry out sufficient checks to make sure shed be able to afford the 
repayments and she was repaying several credit commitments including payday loans at the 
time. Miss H also said that MotoNovo didnt offer to freeze the interest when she was unable 
to meet her repayments.
MotoNovo disagreed that it had been irresponsible to lend to Miss H and didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said it relied on the information she supplied along with information on her credit 
report in order to make its lending decision.
Miss H didnt accept this response and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it and recommended that it be upheld. They concluded that MotoNovo would 
likely have found out through further checks that the credit wasnt affordable for Miss H. 
They recommended that the lender transfer ownership of the car to Miss H and refund any 
payments she made above the cash price of the car, along with compensatory interest.
MotoNovo didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to
an ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 7 August 
explaining why I didnt plan to uphold Miss Hs complaint in relation to irresponsible lending 
but I did think MotoNovo didnt treat her fairly when she had difficulty meeting her 
repayments. From the information I had it seemed MotoNovo had reported deferred 
payments as missed payments to the credit reference agencies and applied default interest 
charges to the account. I shared the information Id relied on in my decision and allowed 
some time for both parties to comment on what Id said or provide any new information they 
wished me to consider when making my final decision. I havent heard from either MotoNovo 
or Miss H. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again and having no new information to consider, Ive seen no 
reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out again my reasons for upholding 
Miss Hs complaint in part in this final decision on the matter.
As Id said in my provisional decision, MotoNovo will be familiar with the regulations in place 
at the time so Ill summarise its main obligations. MotoNovo needed to check that Miss H 
could afford to meet her repayments sustainably before entering into a credit agreement with 
her. In other words, it needed to check that she could meet her repayments out of her usual 
means without experiencing undue difficulty or adverse consequences, for example while 
meeting any existing commitments and without having to borrow or realise assets. The 
necessary checks needed to take into account both the nature of the credit (its type, amount, 
term etc.) and Miss Hs particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that MotoNovo needed to pay due regard to Miss Hs
interests and treat her fairly. The regulators guidance (CONC) paragraph 2.2.2G gave an
example of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit
agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit
history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did MotoNovo complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Hs application to satisfy itself that she would
be able to make the repayments under the agreement out of her usual means without
undue difficulty? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and,
ultimately, did MotoNovo make a fair lending decision? Did MotoNovo treat Miss H unfairly
in any other way?
Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
The regulations in place at the time werent prescriptive about how lenders should implement 
a proportionate check but they were clear that it would generally mean independently 
verifying what the applicant had declared if it took income levels into consideration. CONC 
5.3.1G  4(b) stated that It is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its  
assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
MotoNovo said that when Miss H applied for finance it wasnt a requirement to gather
information about applicants annual salary. It relied on the information applicants supplied
along with their credit file information in order to make its lending decisions. MotoNovo
said it approved Miss Hs application on the basis that she received an annual income of
£19,040, about £1,350 net a month. It also said that her credit score was sufficient to meet
its lending criteria.
Miss H would potentially need to meet her repayments for five years and MotoNovo was
required to take reasonable steps to check she could do so in a sustainable manner, in
other words while meeting her usual living costs and without having to borrow from
elsewhere or go without. However, MotoNovo didnt independently verify Miss Hs income
or find out what her usual living costs were.
MotoNovo did check Miss Hs credit file and provided us with summary information. This 
showed she was paying about £270 a month towards her debts including a loan, heroverdraft, several credit cards and a mail order account. Agreeing this finance with a
monthly repayment of £184 would commit Miss H to spending about third of her income on
debt.
Altogether, I cant say that MotoNovo took reasonable and proportionate steps to assess
the affordability of the finance for Miss H on this occasion.
What would proportionate checks have shown and did MotoNovo lend responsibly?
Ive considered what MotoNovo might have found out had it gone further in its affordability
checks. Miss H has provided us with her full credit report, her bank statements and end of
year tax certificates from around that time. To be clear, Im not suggesting that MotoNovo
should have asked specifically for this information but I think its a reasonable proxy for
what it might have found out about Miss Hs circumstances.
Miss H was paying more on debt than MotoNovo realised at about £350 a month and her
income at the time was much lower. The statements show that Miss H received an
average of just over £700 in June, July and August 2017. This comprised child benefit
payments and maternity pay.
Miss H made her first payment towards the finance in November 2017 but her direct debit
for Decembers payment was returned unpaid. I can see from the customer notes that
Miss H told MotoNovo that she didnt receive any money that month. She explained that
she had returned to work from maternity leave and would be first paid on the 10 January.
Miss H paid £190 on the 14 December to cover that months payment. Her early January
direct debit was returned unpaid and Miss H explained that shed forgotten to change the
date of the direct debit to correspond with her pay date. Miss H made her January
payment on the 10th and met her payments for the next three months.
Ive reviewed Miss Hs tax certificates for the years ending 6 April 2017 and 2018. These are
from the same employer. MotoNovo said that Miss H said on her application form that she
had been employed in the public sector in her current role for several years. The first
certificate shows that Miss H received some maternity pay in that year. The second shows
Miss Hs income for the year as £11,693, £4,229 of which was maternity pay and £7,464
were earnings. The bank statements show that Miss H received half her usual maternity pay
in November 2017. Based on all of this information, Im satisfied that Miss H returned to work
full time before the end of 2017 with a salary of more than £19,000.
The guidance at the time stated that a lender could take into account future changes in
income where there was appropriate evidence of the change and the repayments were
expected to be sustainable in the light of the change. I think had MotoNovo asked Miss H
about her income when she applied for finance in September 2017 she would likely have
said that she was returning to work and would be able to meet her repayments out of her
usual salary. In this case, I dont think MotoNovo was irresponsible to lend on the basis that
Miss H was on maternity leave when she applied for finance but intended to return to work
shortly. I have considered whether Miss H would have been able to meet her repayments
without difficulty out of her usual means going forward, this being her salary and child benefit
payments, approximately £1,450.
Miss H explained that at that time she was spending her money on short term loans,
catalogues and mobile phone contracts, paying mostly the minimum payment. She had lots
of direct debits returned and was charged for these. The statements Ive seen cover June to
November 2017 and show three returned direct debits (which were successfully retaken)
prior to the finance. And although Miss Hs credit file shows a few missed payments on 
catalogue accounts prior to the finance I dont think there were obvious signs of financialdifficulty that should have prompted MotoNovo to decline to lend to her.
Miss H was spending about £600 to £700 a month on debt repayments, bills and living costs
such as food and petrol. Miss H told us that the mortgage and utility bills were in her
partners name and she transferred money on an ad-hoc basis to their account to help
towards the household bills. These costs were £420 for the mortgage, £130 for council tax
and £280 for gas and electricity. Even if Miss H was paying half these costs, it seems she
would have enough left over to meet her repayments for the car finance sustainably. So I
think MotoNovo would still have agreed finance for Miss H had it carried out further checks
before lending.
Ive have considered how Miss H managed the agreement. As mentioned, Miss H met her
repayments in February, March and April 2018. Her payment for May 2018 was returned
and she changed the date of the direct debit then. Miss H had three direct debits returned
over the next two years and she caught up with her missed payment within weeks.
During 2020 and 2021 Miss H told MotoNovo she had been financially impacted by the
pandemic and MotoNovo arranged periods of payment deferrals with her. Looking at
Miss Hs wider financial circumstances, I can see that she took out a short term loan in
September 2018 and defaulted on two communications accounts. She defaulted on
another six accounts over the next four years and I think its fair to say that Miss H was
struggling with her finances over this time. However, I dont think this would have been
foreseeable by MotoNovo when making its lending decision.
Altogether, Ive concluded that MotoNovo wasnt irresponsible when it agreed to lend to 
Miss H.
Did MotoNovo treat Miss H unfairly in any other way?
Miss H said that MotoNovo didnt treat her fairly when she had problems meeting her
repayments, for example it didnt freeze interest and charges on her account.
The customer contact notes show that Miss H asked for a payment deferral when she was
impacted by the pandemic in 2020. MotoNovo agreed to this for June, July and August.
Miss H made her October 2020 payment and requested a direct debit date change. It
seems MotoNovo made a mistake in changing this and so didnt take Miss Hs payments
for November or December 2020. On discovering this it agreed to add these two payments 
to the end of the agreement, along with the initial three from the payment deferral period. 
Miss H asked for another payment deferral for February and March 2021, which MotoNovo 
also agreed. Miss H chose to pay these seven payments across six months from November 
2022, being the end of the original agreement term. These incurred interest which was to be 
paid as part of this repayment plan.
The statement of account shows that Miss H made her usual monthly payments from April
2021 onwards, but missed a payment in December 2021 which she didnt make up. It also
shows that Miss H was charged almost £200 in default interest from September 2020 to
June 2022 (the latest account statement information I have). If this is in addition to the
interest Miss H agreed to pay as part of her repayment plan from November 2022 then I
think it should be waived. These werent missed payments but agreed deferred payments. 
In addition, Miss Hs credit file shows missed payments in late 2020, throughout 2021 and 
six missed payments by June 2022. I dont think MotoNovo should have reported any 
missed payments until December 2021.Putting things right
MotoNovo should:
Remove any adverse information reported to Miss Hs credit file in 2020 or 2021 in 
relation to the deferred payments;
Waive any default interest relating to the deferred payments (if this is in addition to 
the interest Miss H agreed to pay as part of her deferral repayment plan) and reduce 
the outstanding balance on her account accordingly. If Miss H has since repaid the 
balance or the account is settled then MotoNovo should refund these amounts to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Miss Hs complaint against MotoNovo 
Finance Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance in part and it now needs to take the above 
steps to put things right for her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman