DRN-2647224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a 
claims management company.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out PPI when they applied for further lending secured on their home in 
2003. The policy gave them protection for their mortgage repayments if they couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment and the benefit was split equally between 
them.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T didnt 
agree. Their representative said, on their behalf and in summary, that:
Mr and Mrs T had savings and sick pay benefits which meant they were paying for cover 
that they didnt need.
Although theyve not been able to provide evidence, Mr and Mrs T had substantial 
savings in in June 2003.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory - as some of it is here  
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Taking into account the available evidence, what we know about Halifax PPI sales at this 
time, and the paperwork that would - in all likelihood - have been completed, I think, overall, 
Halifax presented the policy as optional and Mr and Mrs T decided to take it.
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs T to take out the policy. It doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Let me explain why.
Mr and Mrs T were eligible for the policy, given their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs T recall that Mr T would have received three months full pay followed by three 
months half pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. And 
that Mrs T would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay. In the 
event of a successful claim, the PPI would have paid out in addition to these work benefits 
and for up to 24 months. It also covered them if they'd become unemployed. So, overall, 
I dont think their existing arrangements made the PPI unsuitable.
Ive considered carefully what Mr and Mrs T have told us about the savings they would have 
had around the time they applied for PPI  which they say would have meant they had 
enough to be able to pay their mortgage if they couldnt work, so they didnt need the policy.
Mr T recalls that he exercised some employee share options around 1999/2000 and that he 
received £45,000. And he told us that he received £58,000 when he was made redundant in 
May 2002. I think its more likely than not that, by June 2003, some or all of this amount was 
no longer available. I say this because in 2001 Mr and Mrs T moved home, which would 
have incurred costs, and, along with the equity in their existing home, they were able to put 
down a substantial deposit. Also, I can see that in 2000 they both took a period of unpaid 
leave to go travelling. And it looks likely that Mr T did not work for around six months after 
being made redundant, so his income would have been limited. Taking all of this into 
account, I dont think the full sums that he received would have been available in June 2003.
I also say this because in June 2003, Mr and Mrs T were applying for a £37,000 loan 
secured on their home to carry out home improvements. I would have thought it more likely 
that, if they had a substantial amount of savings which werent earmarked for any other 
purpose, that they would have used these, rather than obtaining a loan to cover the cost of 
their home improvements.
I have taken into account that Mr and Mrs T said that not long after 2003 they applied for an 
offset mortgage so that they could use their savings to offset the mortgage interest. Its likely 
they did this in June 2004 when their Halifax mortgage was redeemed. So I do think they 
had some savings in place. But the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment and Mr and Mrs T's home was at risk if they didn't keep up with the repayments. 
Mr T had recently experienced redundancy, so I think its more likely than not that they 
wanted to protect themselves against unexpected eventualities in the future and that, taking 
into account the competitive cost of the policy, they chose to take out protection and keep 
their savings intact.
Mr and Mrs T had both been diagnosed with pre-existing medical conditions. But, because 
they took out the PPI at the same time as they applied for a further advance, the terms and 
conditions of the policy covered their pre-existing conditions.
Mr and Mrs T weren't affected by any of the other conditions limiting the policy's main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people. As they could have benefited from 
the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about 
the policy's exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs T 
before they agreed to purchase it. I think they probably weren't told the cost until after they'd 
applied for it. For this reason, I have considered whether clearer information about the cost 
would have affected their decision to purchase the policy. They'd chosen to take out the PPI, 
knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs T would have made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman