DRN-3122458
The complaint
Miss A complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TransUnion) have 
failed to provide an accurate credit file that includes details of accounts she held in a 
previous name and at previous addresses.
What happened
Miss A initially complained through our service about a company who access credit files (Ill 
call them K) through TransUnion. Our investigator thought her complaint should be 
considered by TransUnion as it related to information TransUnion were providing.
Miss A complained to them that she was unable to view her credit file through K as the file 
didnt show her credit performance before she changed her name in 2019 or her address in 
January 2020. 
TransUnion said they could only report what they were told by the companies who provided 
credit. They said they were reliant on information provided by them and the local authority in 
order to verify Miss As financial history and that hadnt been possible.
Our investigator thought TransUnion should amend her credit file to show or link all of her 
history prior to her name change. He noted that Miss A had confirmed shed informed all of 
her credit providers of her updated details.
TransUnion didnt agree. They said their automated system had been unable to verify Miss A 
and they were unable to override that robust system. They suggested Miss A should make a 
postal application for her credit file as, if she did that, they would be able to manually verify 
her.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
The Information Commissioners Office provide the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. Those principles say that data 
that is reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete, and up to date. 
I asked Miss A to make a postal application and I also asked her to make applications for 
statutory copies of her credit file from the other two main UK providers. 
The postal application returned a credit file that Miss A says did not include information 
about her credit performance under her previous name. She provided deed poll information 
that showed she changed her name to Miss A on 9 April 2019. 
Miss A provided credit files from the other two main UK providers that showed they had been 
able to incorporate her previous name as an alias on their files. Both of these providers were 
recording the same credit agreements and the three addresses Miss A had told TransUnion 
about in her paper application.
Miss A also provided bank statements under her previous name at the address she had 
supplied to TransUnion in her paper application, and bank statements under her current 
name at the other two, more recent addresses she told TransUnion about in her paper 
application.
I think its likely that TransUnion are receiving the same data from the credit providers that 
the other credit reference agencies are. The evidence provided by Miss A also suggests it 
should be. I dont think its likely the thin credit file is a result of inaccurate reporting by 
creditors and think its more likely that TransUnion arent reporting consistent, accurate and 
up to date information about Miss A, under her previous name.
Putting things right
TransUnion will need to ensure that Miss As credit file accurately reflects her credit history 
under her old and new name and the address history she has told TransUnion about.
I think its clear Miss A has experienced some distress and inconvenience here. Shes had to 
wait a long time to have her record put right and it must have been frustrating for her to note 
TransUnions lack of action and to have had to escalate her complaint to this service. In the 
circumstances I think TransUnion should pay her £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell TRANSUNION 
INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to:
Ensure that Miss As credit file accurately reflects her credit history under her old and 
new name and the address history she has told TransUnion about.
Pay Miss A £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman