DRN-4007998
The complaint
Mr M complains that Pareto Financial Planning Limited wrongly advised him to consolidate
his two personal pensions into an Organon SIPP in around September 2015. Pareto says 
that it didnt advise Mr M to use that SIPP, or on his choice of funds.
What happened
Mr M is represented in this complaint by a solicitor, APJ Solicitors. He appears to have been 
an existing client of Paretos adviser, notwithstanding the solicitors claims that he was cold 
called in the run up to the September 2015 transfer. I note the solicitor also claims he 
transferred from a defined benefit scheme, when (as Ive stated above) the plans transferred 
into the SIPP were personal pensions  albeit ones that were receiving employer 
contributions.
With the exception of an earlier suitability report dated 16 February 2015, all of the other
documentation Ive seen to establish the Organon SIPP was from September 2015  in fact
many of the fact find, risk questionnaires, application forms and so on were signed on one
day: 8 September 2015.
It's only the February 2015 report that refers to Mr M looking to purchase the commercial
property, and making a substantial contribution of up to £106,000 into the SIPP using the
carry forward rules. It identifies Organon as giving the necessary close financial support to
achieve this property purchase, including the option of multi-member purchase. It goes on to
say:
In this instance I do not feel that a comparison will serve any beneficial purpose as you
are to self-invest your monies, the plan will have various differing costs throughout its life
and as such varying charges depending on the amount of activity within the SIPP.

As your existing plan does not offer property purchase and as such you have no choice
but to transfer to a Self-Invested Personal pension in order to meet your objectives I do
not feel that a comparison is necessary.
Pareto was due to take an initial fee of £4,016 (3% of the two pensions combined transfer
value of £133,870) for this advice.
Pareto confusingly gave the impression to this service that the transfer to Organon didnt
happen, as the commercial property purchase wasnt going ahead  whilst at the same time
providing us with a file containing the signed applications to transfer to Organon in
September 2015. It also provided us with a second (undated) extract from another suitability
report. This recommends Mr M does transfer one of his two existing personal pensions
(Clerical Medical) into the other (LV=) to meet different objectives:
To meet your objective of consolidating your pension funds and reducing the
number of pensions you currently manage for ease of future administration.
To ensure that costs are reduced going forward and that ongoing reviews are built
into the cost of the recommended plan.
Separately, Mr Ms solicitor has provided this service with the result of a Data Subject
Access Request (DSAR) it carried out on Organon. It shows that within one month of Mr Ms
SIPP opening on 16 September 2015, Organon was aware that a Standard Life WRAP
account was to be used within the SIPP for investment. It wrote to Mr M on 16 October 2015:
I can confirm that we are liaising with your advisers at Pareto  regarding the establishment of an 
investment account with Standard Life into which the above fund will be invested.
Pareto was due to take a £5,091 initial fee on the new SIPP and 0.5%pa trail fees, although I
cant see from the SIPP bank account statement that anything other than non-descript fees
of £894.00 were taken at the outset (which may largely be Organons fees). Im satisfied
from the other evidence that Pareto was involved in co-ordinating the switch  even if this is 
in contradiction of the (undated) advice it apparently gave.
The WRAP account was subsequently opened on 4 November 2015 with a £145,780
contribution from the SIPP, which had continued to receive £3,000pm employer
contributions. Those contributions were subsequently transferred into the investment
account on an ongoing basis.
It appears that Mr M was subsequently advised by Hargreaves Lansdowns advisory service
to transfer to one of its SIPPs and invest in other funds. This resulted in the WRAP account
being closed in two stages: on 2 August 2016 and 17 November 2016. The reason for the
gap is given in a letter Organon sent Mr M:
There are crystallised funds with a value at this date of £37,102.84, some of which are
currently invested in non-tradable assets... Once we are able to sell these assets then all
the remaining funds will be sent to Hargreaves Lansdown and the SIPP can be closed
When they looked at the complaint, our investigator had said that Mr M would only be an 
eligible complainant if he was acting for purposes outside his trade, business or profession. 
But they also suggested that the ongoing employer contributions made into the SIPP were a 
benefit to Mr Ms company for tax purposes.
I originally issued a provisional decision to clear up this discrepancy. I didnt consider the 
employers financial position was changed when an existing level of contribution was 
redirected to the Organon SIPP. The effect on Mr Ms business in being able to treat the 
contributions as a tax-deductible expense was the same. And advice that was being given to 
Mr M on fund(s) to invest those contributions, in terms of suitability to his attitude to risk 
and/or consolidation in a plan which had lower charges, would also be completely unrelated 
to the nature of his business. If he was consequently able to persuade the employer to 
redirect its contributions to a new personal provider, which is essentially what happened 
here, that doesnt change the nature of the advice he received as an individual.
The remaining issue for me to determine was whether, by the time Mr M actually applied for
the Organon SIPP on 8 September 2015, he was still relying on the earlier suitability report
dated 16 February 2015 or something else. Based on the available evidence, I thought 
Paretos advice had already changed, because of the new (but undated) suitability report 
referring to transferring the Clerical Medical pension to LV=, which made no reference to 
Mr M still wanting to secure the commercial property within his SIPP. 
Even though the destination scheme changed back to Organon for some reason, I found it 
unlikely that Pareto would have been applying for a Standard Life WRAP to hold the funds if, 
in fact, Mr M was still intent on using them to secure the commercial property. The funds 
seemed to have been invested in assets within the WRAP that couldnt readily be sold  
suggesting they were not cash. Part of Mr Ms complaint was that those funds were 
unsuitable and that Pareto was responsible for those funds being selected.
I invited Pareto to provide any further evidence it had of those investments, and for it to reconsider the conclusions it reached in its final response to the complaint. Pareto 
responded with a listing of all the transactions in the Organon SIPP, and said:
It appears that Mr M may have sought further advice from us following his decision
not to purchase the commercial property (in that a report was drafted, it does not
appear to have been issued)Instead, it appears we invested the funds on the 
instruction of Mr M  i.e. thisinvestment was made without seeking advice from us.
Mr M had experienced a gain of about £20,000 by investing in what appeared to be 
in a model portfolio, selected because it was aligned to his attitude to risk score.
The losses about which he is claiming seemed to occur after his SIPP was moved to
Hargreaves Lansdown (which was not on Paretos advice either).
I considered Paretos response and then issued a further provisional decision on 21 
February 2023. As neither party has responded to that decision I repeat it in full below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain satisfied that Mr M is able to bring a complaint to this service as a consumer. Even
if (as it claims) Pareto did not advise Mr M how to invest within the Standard Life WRAP, it 
had originally recommended the Organon SIPP (for a purpose connected to Mr Ms
business) and by the point Mr M invested that objective had changed. Mr M was investing for
a purpose entirely unconnected to his business, from what I can see. And Pareto at least
arranged the SIPP and the WRAP which amounts to the regulated activity of arranging deals
in investments.
Had Mr M gone on to suffer a loss from the funds he invested in within the WRAP, I think he
would have grounds to at least claim how he came to be put in those funds. I note Pareto
assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk on the same day as he applied for the SIPP, and making
that sort of assessment is usually a prerequisite to giving advice. Even if Mr M used a model
portfolio which delegated all investment decision making to Standard Life, the selection of
that portfolio still seems to have been dependent on Paretos assessment of his attitude to
risk.
So, in order to proceed with such a complaint, I would normally need a more coherent
account of the events directly from both Mr M and the adviser  I dont think either Pareto or
Mr Ms solicitor have explained their respective positions sufficiently clearly.
However, Ive decided in the particular circumstances of this complaint that having any better
account from either party wont make a difference, because Im not persuaded that Mr M has
suffered a loss. I say this because Mr Ms complaint and referral to this service contains the
following statement:
Prior to transferring these funds, [Mr M]s attitude to risk with Investments and Pensions was low 
and the client was not adventurous with financial decisions in relation to their pension. It would be 
fair to say that our client was reserved and cautious with these decisions meaning that the attitude 
to risk was very conservative given the importance of securing a pension fund for later use.
Im not going to base my conclusion that Mr M hasnt suffered a loss on the figure claimed by
Pareto of a gain of around £20,000, because its reasonable to conclude Mr M would have
experienced some investment performance wherever hed invested. However the
overarching point here is that Mr M already had a SIPP  with LV=. Pareto was looking into
consolidating his existing pensions with that SIPP. However, for whatever reason it appears
that Mr M preferred to use the originally proposed SIPP provider Organon to do that.Essentially, the main difference between the two providers would have been the charges, as
Pareto would have been entitled to collect its arrangement fees via either route. LV=
offered a range of funds within its SIPP, and with Organon, Mr M accessed funds on
Standard Lifes platform. The fund options may well have been different  for instance I dont
know if the same option of a regularly rebalanced model portfolio would have been available
on the LV= platform.
The main reason I think Mr Ms complaint will always result in a no loss result is that if we
upheld the complaint, we would use a benchmark index to calculate how the funds Mr M
might have selected in his LV= SIPP would have performed - compared with the actual
performance of the Standard Life funds via Organon. Given that Mr Ms complaint is
predicated on the basis that he only wanted to take a low risk, I think the highest risk level in
the benchmark we would have referred to is one based on 50% investment in Bank of
England fixed rate bonds, and 50% investment in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors
Income Total Return index.
Ive arranged for that calculation to be performed at the Financial Ombudsman Service and
enclosed a copy of it with the provisional decision. It shows that at the point Mr Ms Organon 
SIPP had been completely transferred out (so it was worth zero), the comparative half 
perfoming in line with fixed rate bonds would have been worth £8,294 less  and the 
comparative half performing in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
index would have been worth £1,018 more. In other words, an overall gain of £7,276.
I have no evidence that Pareto actually took its fee from the Organon SIPP. In the event that
Mr M (or his business) paid this directly in cash to Pareto for some reason, it still doesnt look
that this would be enough to turn the overall result into a loss. On this basis, Im satisfied that 
Mr M hasnt suffered a loss at Paretos hands, whatever the precise explanation is for why 
the SIPP consolidation ended up taking place with Organon rather than LV=.
Im in agreement with Pareto that Mr Ms complaint to Pareto has been misguided and he
and his solicitor should be looking to the Hargreaves Lansdown complaint to establish how
the significant losses being complained about occurred.
My final decision
In the absence of evidence of a financial loss, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against
Pareto Financial Planning Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman