DRN-2663432
The complaint
Mrs U says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs U bought the policy in 2000 in connection with a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs U disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Us case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Us complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mrs U says she didnt know anything about the PPI and wasnt aware it had been 
added to her account. But Ive seen a copy of Mrs Us store card application form, 
and this was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. She signed the relevant 
section of the form to accept the cover. Card protection was also available on the 
form, but it seems Mrs U chose not to take that.
So I think Mrs U wouldve realised she had a choice about whether or not to buy the 
PPI  although I can understand why she may no longer remember this, given the 
time thats passed.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that AXA made Mrs U aware that the policy was 
optional.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs U so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about her circumstances, or whether she 
had any other means to cover her repayments. 
But even if AXA had recommended the policy, it doesnt look as though it was 
unsuitable for Mrs U, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs 
U has told me that she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer and that 
she had some savings following an inheritance shed received. Shes also said that 
her husband wouldve covered her store card debt if things went wrong.
Mrs U hasnt been able to provide evidence of the sick pay she says she was entitled 
to and the savings she had at the time she took out the policy. Thats understandable 
given the time thats passed since the policy was sold. 
Mrs Us former employer has written with details of Mrs Us sick pay which is helpful, 
although the details are brief and arent set out in a formal employment contract. Im 
also mindful that Mrs U had told us during her complaint that the sick pay was 
discretionary. So on balance I dont think I can safely say that if Mrs U was off work 
sick she wouldve definitely received the level of sick pay shes referred to. 
But even if she had, the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Us employer sick 
pay, and wouldve meant she couldve used those benefits and her savings to pay for 
other expenses. And it wouldve meant she didnt have to rely on her husband. So I 
still think Mrs U wouldve had some use for the policy.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs U about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs U would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman