DRN-4026886
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about the administration of her mortgage accounts with HSBC UK Bank 
Plc following a first Covid-19 payment deferral in 2020. She is unhappy that she has 
received letters containing incorrect information, unclear communication, and says she has 
been harassed by HSBC constantly calling her and her representative wanting to discuss 
her circumstances and payment of the arrears.
In settlement of the complaint, Ms B wants the outstanding balance on all three of her 
mortgage accounts written off. She also wants compensation for the damage to her health 
and the time that has been spent on dealing with the issues. 
Ms B is represented in her complaint, but for simplicity, I will refer to all comments being 
made by her. 
What happened
Ms B holds three mortgage accounts on her home with HSBC. In 2005 Ms B began to 
experience financial difficulties. By 2014, due to the combined arrears on the accounts 
ending in 885 and 228 being more than £20,000, HSBC took legal action to repossess the 
property. A suspended possession order (SPO) was issued by the court in January 2015. It 
said that, if Ms B paid the contractual monthly payment (CMP) plus an additional £175 each 
month, no further action would be taken. 
Ms B made most of the payments required to the mortgage, but not all, and payments 
werent made on the due date. The payments for October and November 2015 for the 
account ending in 885 were less than half of what they should have been. As such, the SPO 
agreement was breached. However, it appears that HSBC agreed an arrangement to pay 
(ATP) of the same amount going forward. 
Ms B has been making the mortgage payments to the accounts by separate manual bank 
transfers. HSBC has explained that Ms Bs mortgage accounts allow overpayments, so 
when she made payments before they were due, the system categorised them as 
overpayments. This meant that when the due date for the payment arrived and no payment 
was made, it was temporarily registered that the payment had been missed. Overall, the 
short-payments and late payments resulted in the plan for payment of the arrears, most of 
the time, showing that it was slightly behind where it should have been. 
System generated payment letters and monthly arrears letters were sent to Ms B throughout. 
HSBC also attempted to telephone Ms B to discuss the payment of the arrears and when it 
was unable to do so, voice messages were left, and text messages and letters were sent 
asking her to contact it.
A Covid-19 payment deferral was agreed on the accounts ending in 885 and 228, for March, 
April and May 2020. When this arrangement was confirmed in writing, HSBC explained that 
it would continue to write to Ms B about the arrears on the account during that period and 
that the arrears balance might be wrong. This was because the system that generated the 
letters didnt take into account payment deferrals. Ms B was told not to worry if she was 
given incorrect information, and she was reassured that her credit file would only show the 
arrears present at the beginning of the payment deferral. HSBC also said that it would 
contact Ms B before the end of the deferral period with instructions on how to complete an 
affordability assessment (and I&E form), so that it could work with her to agree a 
manageable way forward. 
On 19 June 2020 HSBC emailed Ms B with a letter confirming that the payment deferral had 
ended. It asked her to go to its website and fill in an income and expenditure (I&E) form. It 
told her that if no response was received, and further payments were missed, they would be 
reported on her credit file. However, once the form was completed, HSBC would contact her 
within five working days to discuss the options available.
In the middle of July 2020, Ms B wrote to HSBC to request that she be allowed to pay less 
than she was due to pay on accounts ending 885 and 228. She wanted this arrangement for 
the four months after the payment deferral ended. HSBC responded to the letter the day 
after it received it. It told Ms B that it wanted to support her and look at ways to make her 
mortgage payment affordable, and asked her to call it. 
Ms B didnt call HSBC as requested, but around two weeks later she wrote to HSBC again. 
She said shed received an email the previous week claiming to be from HSBC regarding a 
further payment holiday. As she hadnt before communicated with HSBC by email, she 
informed it that she wasnt going to respond to that email. She chased a response to her 
letter asking to be allowed to make reduced payments and told HSBC to only contact her by 
letter. Ms B explained that she was working from home and spent most of the day on the 
phone, and her partner was either not there or working, and so wouldnt hear the phone.
Ms B has told us that she sent a letter to HSBC on 1 September 2020 chasing a response to 
the previous two letters and enclosing an I&E form. The letter also confirmed that Ms B 
would be able to afford the full payments due from September 2020. HSBC has no record of 
receiving this letter.
In November 2020 HSBC adjusted the arrears figures for the mortgage accounts to remove 
the amount of the deferred payments.
HSBC wrote to Ms B in the middle of December 2020 for each of the accounts that payment 
deferrals had been arranged on. It again confirmed that the deferral period had ended, and 
Ms B should have started making payments again. It explained that since the payment 
deferral had ended the Regulator had provided guidance to lenders that allowed the deferred 
payments and interest to be paid over the remaining term of the mortgage. The letter told 
Ms B what her new monthly payment was (not taking into account the pre-existing arrears), 
and the total amount that would be paid over the remainder of the term based on the new 
balance (taking into account the arrears). HSBC also asked her to contact it to discuss 
paying the arrears. 
At the end of January 2021 Ms B asked for a second payment deferral period for the same 
two accounts. The arrangement was confirmed the following day for between 26 January 
2021 and 26 March 2021. HSBC explained that during the deferral period Ms B might 
receive letters about her mortgage arrears, but these letters would have been sent 
automatically by HSBCs systems and may not take account of the payment deferral agreed. 
Therefore, the letters might contain some incorrect information relating to the arrears. Ms B 
was asked not to worry if the information she received was incorrect as she didnt need to 
make any payments and her credit file would continue to show the level of arrears she had 
before the deferral. HSBC told Ms B that it would be in touch before the end of the deferral 
period, and shed need to complete an affordability assessment (an I&E form). Following this the arrears statements sent for the mortgages showed the arrears increasing 
due to no payments being made. However, after the payment deferral ended, HSBC again 
adjusted the balances on the accounts to show that payments hadnt been missed, thereby 
reducing the arrears balance, and the main balance increased by the same amount. The 
following day HSBC wrote to Ms B on each of the mortgage accounts to remind her that the 
payment deferral period had ended and to tell her what her new payments were. It was 
confirmed that the new mortgage balance didnt include the arrears and the amount payable 
also didnt take them into account. 
In May 2021 Ms B contacted HSBC because of the calls she and her representative were 
receiving about the arrears on the account. HSBC explained to Ms B that a formal 
agreement for payment of the arrears would stop the regular calls and some of the letters. 
This would involve an I&E exercise. HSBC explained that it was up to them whether they did 
that. If they did set up an ATP it would mean that they wouldnt get any calls for 3-4 months 
and no letters asking for contact. However, the letters required by the Regulator about the 
arrears would still need to be sent and they would still get missed payment letters. It was 
explained that missed payment letters would be issued if the monthly payment wasnt made 
on the due date. HSBC also explained that the payment requirements set out by the SPO 
werent in place anymore and so a formal ATP would need to be made to replace it. 
Alternatively, if Ms B didnt want to enter into a formal arrangement, she could simply keep 
them up to date every 30 days which would avoid the calls too. Ms B said she would do an 
I&E form, send it in and a discussion could then take place about an ATP. The call also 
involved a detailed discussion about capitalisation of the arrears and the possibility of a term 
extension to reduce the costs. However, Ms B decided against both options as she planned 
to have the property on the market for sale in the next three months and hoped to have sold 
it by the autumn. A change of payment date was agreed to increase the likelihood of 
payments being made on time. 
Ms B complained in June 2021 about the tone of a letter shed been sent advising that 
HSBC might take legal action about the arrears. Ms B put forward initially that a formal 
payment arrangement had been agreed in the May telephone conversation. However, she 
went on to confirm that the I&E form that had been promised hadnt been completed 
because her representative had been unwell and then shed been unable to access it on 
HSBCs website. It was explained to Ms B that the letter she was unhappy about was a 
standard template used to try to get customers to contact HSBC when it had been unable to 
contact them. It apologised if the content of the letter wasnt entirely appropriate for 
customers in their position  where they were making payments, and it offered Ms B £100 
compensation. She accepted this and agreed the complaint could be closed. HSBCs 
member of staff confirmed that he would forward on her feedback on the wording of the 
letter. HSBC confirmed in writing the following day that the complaint had been settled and 
provided Ms B with referral rights to this service in the event she was unhappy. 
At the end of June 2021 a further telephone discussion took place. Ms B again confirmed 
that the property would be put up for sale that summer, with the plan to sell it and downsize 
without a mortgage. A full I&E exercise was gone through, and HSBC attempted to speak to 
Ms B about consolidating the arrears, but it was confirmed that this conversation had been 
had in May and she had decided that as the property was to be sold, she just wanted to 
have the same arrangement in place shed had previously, in line with the SPO. She was 
told that if HSBC agreed to that, it would need to be reviewed every six months. However, 
despite the conversations, HSBC didnt agree an ATP in the call or confirm when it would 
make a decision. It appears from its internal notes that it intended to agree the ATP Ms B 
wanted, but on the condition the property was being marketed for sale. HSBC called Ms Bs 
representative to discuss the matter further, but it wasnt convenient for him to do so and he 
didnt call it back, as he said he would. On 29 July 2021 HSBC sent Ms B two letters for accounts ending 885 and 228. These 
letters explained that the end of deferral letters sent in December 2020 had each contained 
a mistake. It highlighted that it had said the figure it had given Ms B for the total payable over 
the remaining term included payment of the arrears, but that was not the case. The figure 
was just for the payment of the main mortgage balances. HSBC confirmed that all the other 
information it had provided was correct, including the new monthly payment and the 
mortgage and arrears balances. 
On 13 September 2021 Ms B complained about the number of calls that she and her 
representative were receiving. HSBC responded the following day and explained that as the 
account was in arrears it was with its Collections Department. As part of the collections 
process, it confirmed it used an automatic dialler system to contact customers whose 
account wasnt running within agreed terms. The calls were designed to help resolve any 
issues and to make sure customers were up to date with the latest information on their 
account. HSBC said that the calls were not designed to upset, but to come to allow an ATP 
to be agreed. It explained that if Ms B didnt want to receive calls in the future, she should let 
one of its advisors know and it would remove the telephone numbers from its system. HSBC 
has explained that as the complaint was made by Ms Bs representative, who wasnt 
authorised to make changes to the account, Ms B had to call to remove the telephone 
numbers from the account. 
In October 2021 Ms B raised a further complaint. This complaint was about the letters 
regarding missed payments that had been received as they were wrong and upset her. She 
said that an ATP was agreed in May 2021. Ms B was also concerned about the letters of 
27 July 2021, as having checked the December 2020 letters she considered they were clear 
and there were no errors in the balances, which meant that HSBC was wasting her time. 
This complaint letter was followed up in a letter of 24 October 2021 again saying that the 
letters being received were causing upset. She demanded the letters stop immediately and 
later accused HSBC of criminal harassment. 
HSBC responded to the complaint on 15 December 2021. It said it was sorry if its attempts 
to resolve the arrears on their account had caused Ms B upset. However, it explained that 
there were certain things it was required by the Regulator to tell a customer with arrears on 
their account, and this included setting out the potential consequences of the situation. 
HSBC observed that if Ms B hadnt wanted to receive further calls she could have taken the 
action it set out in the September 2021 final response letter. HSBC confirmed that Ms B 
needed to agree an ATP and then the calls and most of the correspondence would be 
suspended for the duration of the agreement. It asked her to call to discuss the situation and 
explained that an I&E exercise would need to be done.
Ms B wasnt happy with the response from HSBC. She said it had ignored the facts 
presented to it and hadnt addressed the complaint. She also said that she wouldnt discuss 
the situation in a telephone call, as she required time to digest and analyse HSBCs 
responses and refer to documentation. 
HSBC said that it was sorry Ms B was still unhappy, but it couldnt agree that it had been 
unreasonable in wanting updates on her situation and to agree a repayment plan for the 
arrears. It suggested that if Ms B wasnt comfortable speaking to it, her representative could 
do so on her behalf. Alternatively she could seek advice from an independent third-party 
specialising in debt management. 
Ms B referred her complaint to this service on 15 June 2022. Ms B explained to us that shed 
had to take time off work in 2021 because of the stress HSBC was causing her by sending 
missed payment and arrears letters. One of our investigators looked into whether Ms Bs complaint fell within our jurisdiction. She 
concluded that we couldnt consider the complaint issues dealt with in June 2021 and 
September 2021 final response letters. This was because the complaints had been referred 
to us outside the six-month period specified within our rules, and there were no exceptional 
circumstances that prevented that happening. As such, we would only be able to consider 
the correspondence and calls made after 14 September 2021.
Both parties accepted the investigators conclusion about our jurisdiction. Ms B provided 
excerpts from her medical records showing that her health had deteriorated in late 2021 due 
to anxiety, resulting in her being signed off work. In addition, she set out the concerns she 
had in relation to the amount of arrears HSBC had reported and that she believed the figures 
were wrong. She highlighted that in the November 2020 and April 2021 statements HSBC 
sent her it made unexplained alterations to the arrears balances. 
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint, but she didnt recommend 
that it be upheld. Ms B didnt accept the investigators conclusions.
When the complaint was referred to me, I asked the investigator to confirm to the parties that 
we would be able to consider the matter of the letters regarding arrears and missed 
payments that had been sent to Ms B after HSBCs final response letter of 7 June 2021. In 
relation to the telephone calls made to Ms B and her representative, the investigator 
reiterated that we would only consider that issue for events after the September 2021 final 
response letter. Both parties again accepted what we would be considering. 
Ms B was also asked to provide further evidence about the deterioration in her medical 
condition and its link to the situation with her mortgages. She confirmed that she was unable 
to provide any evidence from her medical practitioner in this regard as she hadnt sought 
medical assistance.
I issued a provisional decision on the merits of this complaint on 17 February 2023, in which 
I set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would first explain that its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an 
auditing service or carry out a forensic analysis of mortgage accounts. So while Ms B has 
said that she thinks the balances on her accounts arent right, and this is due to errors earlier 
in the life of the accounts, this isnt something that we are able to assist her with proving. Its 
open to Ms B to instruct an independent suitably qualified professional to audit her account. 
However, that would have to be at her expense  although if errors were found to her 
financial detriment, she could complain about them and her costs in discovering them could 
be taken into account in putting matters right. 
I am also aware Ms B is unhappy with how the complaint was handled. In order for us to be 
able to consider a complaint about something thats happened it needs to be about 
something our rules say we can consider  usually a regulated activity. The handling of 
complaints is something the regulator requires a financial business to do, but that doesnt 
make it a regulated activity that falls within our remit. We are able to consider concerns 
about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for example, if were upholding the 
underlying complaint that a consumer believes was mis-handled. However, that isnt the 
case here and so I wont be commenting on Ms Bs concerns about how her complaint was 
handled. 
I will now comment about the requirements set out under the SPO. In order for the legal 
action against Ms B to be suspended, she had to pay both the CMP and an additional sum 
towards the arrears. However, Ms B didnt fulfil the requirements of the order in 2015 and so would be considered to have breached that agreement, thereby making it null and void. At 
this point HSBC agreed an arrangement to pay (ATP) that was the same as the 
requirements under the SPO. 
The difference between a consumer making payments under an SPO and under an ATP is 
that an ATP is an agreement with the lender and is subject to review by the lender. Indeed, 
reviewing any arrangements made to help with live financial difficulties or any recovery 
arrangements following such difficulties ending, is expected of a lender. In this situation, as 
HSBC explained to Ms B, the first payment deferral period had effectively ended the ATP 
that had been in place before it. As such, a new ATP needed to be arranged. I would also 
confirm, as HSBC explained in its conversations with Ms B, that it is common that ATPs are 
reviewed every three to six months, depending on the circumstances.
Ms B complained about the phone calls that were made to her in order for HSBC to try to 
review her situation. HSBC has provided a list of the calls it made about Ms Bs account 
between 14 September 2021 following its final response letter and 15 December 2021 when 
Ms B next complained about the issue. There were 14 calls made during that time on seven 
days, usually calling mobile and landline numbers when no response was received on the 
first option. In light of the fact that there wasnt an ATP in place at this time, I dont consider 
that HSBC attempting to contact Ms B or her representative on seven occasions over a 
three-month period is excessive or amounts to harassment. 
I also note that HSBC explained to Ms B in May 2021 how she could avoid getting calls  to 
either set up an ATP or to keep HSBC updated on a monthly basis. Later, in December 
2021, HSBC also told her how to stop permanently any calls being made to her. It has 
confirmed that Ms B needed to take that action, as her representative doesnt have authority 
to change anything on the accounts. If she chose not to do so, I cant criticise HSBC for 
continuing to use the telephone numbers Ms B and her representative provided it with. 
In addition to expecting a lender to make efforts to assist a consumer in financial difficulty or 
recovering from such a period, the Regulator requires a lender to keep them informed on a 
regular basis about the status of their account if they are in arrears. This is what HSBC did 
and I cant find it was wrong to do so.
In relation to the letters telling Ms B that payments had been missed, it is quite standard for 
such letters to be sent to customers by lenders. The letters are there to highlight the missed 
payment so that the customer has the opportunity to rectify the situation as soon as possible. 
The letters will also ask that the customer speak to the lender if they are in financial 
difficulties, so that it can do what it can to assist as soon as possible. Such letters are usually 
system-generated and their production is triggered if a payment of the correct amount is not 
received on the agreed payment date. 
In Ms Bs case, the payments have often been made either before or after the payment date, 
rather than on it. HSBC has explained that as overpayments can be made to the mortgage, 
its system will automatically assign any payments received other than on the payment date 
as an overpayment, unless the normal payment is overdue. So when Ms B makes payments 
earlier than the payment date, they are initially categorised within HSBCs system as an 
overpayment. While this situation is reconciled on HSBCs systems later, the missed 
payment letter will already have been generated because she didnt pay when she was 
meant to.
This type of issue is partially why lenders suggest that payments are made by direct debit, 
so that payments are collected at the right time and credited to the account on the correct 
day, thereby avoiding such problems. While I can understand that Ms B is unhappy about 
receiving missed payment letters when shes made, or will make, the payment within the 
month it is due, I cant find that HSBC has done anything wrong in issuing the letters. I would also comment that the point in the month a payment is made can also affect the 
balances, including the arrears. Even if a payment is made in the month it is due, if it is 
made late, it might not have been received when any balances are calculated. Also, if 
payments are made late, there will be additional interest charged. 
In relation to the error in the letters sent in December 2020 and the correction letter HSBC 
sent in July 2021, it is clear that a mistake was made in the earlier letters in that it said that 
when the total amount payable over the remaining term was calculated, it included the 
payment of the arrears, which it did not. This was unfortunate but I dont think it was the key 
information in the letters; that was what the new monthly CMPs Ms B was expected to pay 
and the account balances. These were not affected by the error. Although I am sure Ms B 
was disappointed that HSBC made this mistake when it informed her of it, I havent seen 
anything that indicates the mistake caused her any problems or upset, as she wasnt aware 
of it until it had been corrected. While Ms B has commented that the same error was made in 
the 2021 end of payment deferral letters, having read them, I cant agree that it was. 
I note that Ms B has also said in her complaint to this service that the letters of 12 December 
2020 were worded in an ambiguous manner so that it was difficult for her to identify whether 
the letter was referring to the arrears on the account before the payment deferral or the 
amount of the deferrals. 
I have considered the wording of the letters and I am not convinced this wording, when taken 
in context with the other correspondence Ms B was sent about the payment deferrals, is 
ambiguous. Indeed, in Ms Bs letter of 5 October 2021 she said the letters (clearly) states 
whether the amounts quoted include or excludes any arrears sums. In addition, she said 
that shed checked the balances and she hadnt been able to find any errors.
Ms B has put forward that the situation with her mortgage has caused her a significant 
amount of stress and this has caused her health to deteriorate. We asked Ms B to provide 
some evidence from her medical practitioner to evidence the link between the two, given that 
Ms B had also mentioned on a different occasion that the deterioration in her health was due 
to a family situation. Ms B has confirmed that she is unable to provide such information. In 
light of this, and as I have not found that HSBCs actions were unreasonable, I dont propose 
to comment further on this matter or make an award in this respect.
Ms B provided a substantive response to the provisional decision and some additional 
documentation referenced in that response. Much of Ms Bs comments related to matters 
other than the issues this decision covers. As such, I wont provide detail of the submissions 
here, and will simply respond to the relevant information below. In addition, Ms B raised 
some new complaint points, such as the amount of time it took for the balances on her 
account to be amended to reflect the payment deferral in 2020. This decision is not the place 
for any new complaint points to be considered and so if Ms B wishes to pursue them, she 
would need to raise them with HSBC in the first instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, this decision addresses Ms Bs complaints about:
the letters regarding arrears and missed payments sent to her after 7 June 2021; and 
the telephone calls made to Ms B and her representative after 14 September 2021.I have considered everything Ms B and HSBC have said, including Ms Bs response to the 
provisional decision. I have reviewed the file again in its entirety, including the additional 
documents that Ms B has provided, and I have revisited my provisional decision. Having 
done so, I have not changed my conclusions.
I will, however, respond to Ms Bs statement that she was unaware that she hadnt complied 
with the terms of the SPO and didnt know when her monthly payments were due. Ms B has 
put this forward to support the fact that HSBC was harassing her.
Alongside her recent submissions, Ms B provided parts of mortgage statements from 2014, 
2015 and 2016. All of these documents clearly show that her payments were due on the 26th 
day of the month. In addition, the SPO also says that the first payment had to be made on or 
before the 26th day of the month it started. So I am satisfied that Ms B would have known 
that she wasnt making payments on the day of the month she was meant to. As such, I 
dont consider that this makes a difference to my conclusions about the correspondence 
HSBC sent to Ms B. 
I also note that Ms B said that there was no reason for an ATP following the Covid-19 
payment deferrals as her payments were generally made within 14 days of when they were 
due. She also considers that HSBCs systems should provide flexibility for customers making 
manual payments. Mortgage contracts require a customer to make payments on a specific 
day each month  that doesnt change irrespective of how the borrower chooses to make 
their payments. As such, there is nothing wrong with a lender having a system set up on the 
assumption that a borrower will pay on time, as they committed to doing. As for the fact that 
Ms B has generally paid within 14 days of the payment date, that makes no difference as to 
whether an ATP needs to be in place. The ATP needs to be in place because of the arrears 
on the account, not because payments are not being made on the date they are meant to 
be. 
I can understand that Ms B didnt enjoy having to discuss her finances with HSBC, but that 
doesnt mean that it was wrong for HSBC to want to know that information. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, a lender is required to assess whether it can help a borrower in 
financial difficulties, and it needs to be aware of its customers situation to do so. 
Ms B has again repeated that HSBCs communications and actions caused her mental 
health to deteriorate. I would firstly like to say that I dont doubt Ms Bs submissions that her 
health deteriorated. However, in order for me to be able to make an award in this respect I 
must firstly conclude that HSBC did something wrong, and have supporting evidence from 
Ms Bs medical professionals to link the deterioration to the actions of HSBC. As Ms B has 
now confirmed, her medical professional has declined to provide such a statement. As such, 
I would be unable to find HSBC responsible and make an award of compensation in regard 
to Ms Bs health even if I were persuaded it had done something wrong.
Ms B has again repeated that she now considers the end of payment holiday letters to be 
ambiguous. As I did in my provisional decision, I would refer her back to her comments 
about the letters and how she considered their content was clear. Having reviewed the 
letters again, I remain of the view that the letters are clear in their meaning.
I know that Ms B wont be happy with my conclusions, but I dont consider that HSBC was 
wrong to send her the letters it did and make the various attempts to contact her, when it 
was trying to assess her situation.  My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 
14 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman