DRN-1786456
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out the PPI during the same meeting in branch in which he applied for the credit 
card in 2007. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has a copy of the application form that Mr M would have completed at the 
time, which isnt surprising. It does however make the complaint more difficult to decide. In 
reaching my decision I have considered the information that we do have, as well as what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
Mr M says he was told that he had to take out the PPI as a condition of getting the credit 
card. From what we know of HSBCs sales processes at the time, the PPI would normally 
have been presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
Although we dont have a copy of Mr Ms actual application form, HSBC has provided a copy 
of the type of application form that was in use at the time. This form contains a separate 
section for PPI which had to be signed by the applicant to request the policy.
I have no doubt that Mr M has provided his honest recollection of events. But the sale was a 
long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory of the meeting has faded. I think 
that Mr M would have known, from the wording and layout of the form, that he had a choice 
about buying the PPI. On balance, it seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he 
didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Mr M says that he cancelled the policy a few years later when he realized he didnt need it, 
which he says shows that he wasnt given the correct information at the time. However, Im 
unable to conclude that Mr Ms decision to cancel the policy some years later means that it 
was mis-sold in 2007. And, as Mr M knew that he could cancel the policy, it shows that he 
must have known that it wasnt a condition of having the credit card.HSBC advised Mr M to take out the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met Mr Ms needs. And from what I know of Mr Ms circumstances 
at the time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr M would only have received statutory sick pay from his employer. Mr M says he had a 
small amount of savings at the time as he was starting to save for a house. But having the 
policy would have meant that he could retain his savings or use them to cover any other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall, the policy could have provided a 
useful benefit to Mr M if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
So I consider it was reasonable of HSBC to advise Mr M to buy it.
Mr M says that his employment circumstances changed later. But at the time of the sale Mr 
M was in full time employment and therefore the policy would have met his needs. He has 
also said that he was in good health. But the nature of insurance is to provide cover for 
unexpected life events and changes in circumstance.
HSBC also needed to provide Mr M with enough information for him to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for him. I think that Mr M would have known 
something about the policy  that it would cover his repayments if he was unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have decided to buy 
it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr M had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
This means that HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But 
HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about 
that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman