DRN-4023354
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent 
to her.
What happened
Miss S opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in March 2014 with an initial credit 
limit of £800. Her credit limit was increase four times over the course of the agreement until, 
in April 2017, it was £4,300.
 
Miss S says that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by increasing her credit limit on several 
occasions.  She says if Barclaycard had done adequate checks on her situation it would 
have seen that she wouldnt be able to repay her balance in a reasonable length of time.
 
Barclaycard said it didnt lend irresponsibly to Miss S and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it increased her credit limit. However, our adjudicator thought that Miss Ss complaint 
should be upheld from the point at which Miss Ss credit limit was increased above £1,600.
 
Our adjudicator considered Barclaycard ought to pay back the interest Miss S had paid on 
balances above that amount and any fees she incurred. Our adjudicator also said that once 
Miss S had cleared her outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss 
credit file after October 2014 in relation to the account should be removed.
Miss S was happy with this outcome. Barclaycard didnt respond, despite repeated attempts 
to encourage it to engage.
 
As Barclaycard has not formally accepted or rejected the adjudicators view the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Miss Ss complaint.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Barclaycard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include 
things like understanding Miss Ss income, the total amount Miss S borrowed, and the length 
of time Miss S had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history 
and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Miss S hasnt suggested that the original provision of the credit was unaffordable, so I have 
just looked at the credit limit increases. 
Barclaycard hasnt been able to provide any information about the checks it did when it first 
increased Miss Ss credit limit in October 2014 to £1,600. It has provided copies of Miss Ss 
credit card statements for the period leading up to the increase. These show that although 
Miss S had on one occasion spent £17 over her limit of £800, the account was otherwise 
managed well. Miss S was repaying significantly above the minimum required each month.
If Barclaycard had done checks at this point I dont know for sure what it would have seen. 
However, Miss S has been able to provide her credit file which includes entries from this 
period. There are no late payments or defaults before the credit limit increase, and she 
seems to have been managing her credit well. So, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Miss S was struggling to manage her borrowing or that Barclaycard acted unfairly or 
irresponsibly when it increased her credit limit. 
However, Miss Ss circumstances had changed by the time of the second credit limit 
increase in April 2016. Barclaycard says it did a credit check which showed no adverse 
information and that the same credit check verified Miss Ss income. Barclaycard has 
provided a copy of the checks it did, but I dont think the totality of the evidence Barclaycard 
had available indicates that Barclaycard made a fair lending decision. For example, in the 
eight months preceding the credit limit increase, Miss S incurred overlimit fees on five 
occasions. She was always close to, or over, her credit limit. And although Barclaycards 
checks showed she had a hire purchase agreement with around £10,000 outstanding with 
monthly repayments of £314 a month, the checks didnt show other credit that Miss S had 
taken out. 
In the six months preceding the credit limit increase Miss S took out seven high- cost payday 
loans. According to Barclaycards assessment, Miss Ss income at the point of application 
was £14,000 a year and it did not have any information to suggest this had changed. With 
existing commitments estimated to be at just under £1,300 a month, Miss S was unlikely to 
have any disposable income with which to meet the increased repayments on her credit 
card. On balance, I am not persuaded that Barclaycard took into account all the relevant 
information it should have done. I dont think Barclaycard ought to have been satisfied that 
Miss S could sustainably repay more borrowing. 
Similarly, in relation to the two further credit limit increases in August 2016 and April 2017, I 
havent seen anything to suggest Miss Ss financial circumstances had improved 
significantly. So I dont think these credit limit increases were fair either. 
I think Barclaycard didnt act fairly when it increased Miss Ss credit limit above £1,600. I 
think Miss S lost out as a result.Putting things right
As I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Miss Ss credit limit from £1,600 I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Miss S has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I 
think she should pay this back. Therefore, I direct Barclaycard to:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,600.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss S along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Barclaycard should also remove all adverse information 
recorded after 11 April 2016 regarding this account from Miss Ss credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,600, Barclaycard 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss S for the remaining amount. 
Once she has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after 11 April 2016 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ss complaint about the credit limit increases applied to Miss Ss account from 
11 April 2016. I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to pay compensation as 
described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman