DRN-3373532
The complaint
Mr and Ms C complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) have unfairly 
handled a claim on his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Ms C or Admiral includes any agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been discussed in 
detail by our Investigator previously. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr and Ms C hold their buildings insurance with Admiral. They suffered damage to 
their property  a kitchen side extension  and claimed on their policy.
Admiral accepted a claim for subsidence. Its initial loss adjuster (Company A) 
concluded the cause of damage was likely due to nearby vegetation. And it 
recommended for this to be removed and the property monitored.
Mr and Ms C instructed their own engineer (Company B) to produce a report on the 
cause of damage. The engineer said the vegetation may not be the primary cause of 
the subsidence, and outlined potential risks associated with the removal of trees. He 
said the below ground drainage was defective and couldve been damaged by 
ground movement and would require replacement or repair. Company B outlined 
several options for repair, which largely consisted of engineering solutions including 
underpinning and rebuilding the affected part of the property.
In light of the dispute, Admiral instructed another loss adjuster (Company C) who 
reviewed the site investigations from a drainage specialist alongside available 
evidence and said the cause of damage conclusively was root exacerbated clay 
shrinkage subsidence. They recommended vegetation was cut back and once the 
site stabilised it would then consider repairs. 
Admiral cash settled the claim with Mr and Ms Cs agreement. And said it would 
reconsider the settlement if further issues were highlighted by monitoring.
As the parties disagree about the scope and type of repairs, the complaint was 
brought to this Service. Mr and Ms C said the disagreement over repairs, including 
drain works, had led to unnecessary delays, that Admiral had failed to engage with 
Company Bs findings, and its remedies did not provide long term stability solution. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
all three experts agreed vegetation could be a cause of the ground movement. And 
Company A and Cs evidence and reports were most persuasive. 
The Investigator felt Admirals offer to reconsider the matter upon sight of monitoring 
data was fair in the circumstances. He also said he wouldnt direct Admiral to pay for 
the Company B report costs as it hadnt impacted the claim.
Mr and Ms C disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Ms Cs complaint to Admiral concerned a wide scope of issues. Within this decision I 
have focused on the issues that remain in dispute. Mr and Ms C describe Company Bs 
proposals as providing various long-term stability solutions. And this appears to be the crux 
of their complaint  they dont believe Admirals proposals would give them confidence that 
no future damage could occur.
The terms of Mr and Ms Cs policy allows Admiral the option of how to settle the claim, 
including whether to repair, reinstate, or rebuild the part of the buildings that have been 
damaged or destroyed by an insured peril. This is common across policies of this nature and 
means it is Admirals choice as to how to put things right when handling the claim. 
Mr and Ms C have suggested that Admirals selection of vegetation removal and then to 
monitor has been chosen because it is a cheaper alternative than underpinning or another 
engineering solution.
Insurers do take into account costs when considering different methods of repair or how to 
settle a claim. This in itself isnt unfair, and I dont think its unreasonable to expect insurers 
to be prudent when making this kind of decision. However, in handling a claim and 
considering costs an insurer cannot lose sight of its obligations under the policy  and in this 
instance to ensure an effective and lasting repair.
Part of Mr and Ms Cs concerns lay around the condition of their drains and whether this is 
causing the subsidence. Admiral initially included a sum of £1,000 to cover drainage repairs 
within its cash settlement based on the information available at the time. But it has said 
since, the evidence Company C and a drainage specialist (Company D) have provided led it 
to conclude it had offered this sum unnecessarily. But it has said it would not retract this as it 
had already been offered.
Ive gone on to consider each of the reports in turn to decide if Admiral has acted fairly. 
Company A  Admirals initial loss adjuster
Company As initial review of the property concluded:
We understand there have been issues with underground drains which may run 
beneath the extension, but that would cause problems over a long period of time and 
damage would become progressively worse. In this case we understand that damage 
has occurred rapidly over a short period coinciding with a long, dry spell of weather.
It went on to say it believed the damage was likely to be due to clay shrinkage caused by 
nearby vegetation. Following investigations, it concluded vegetation removal and associated 
repairs would resolve the claim. It also commented on the drains, saying:
this is unlikely to be associated with causing any detriment to the functionality of 
the drains, this does not appear to require any form of repair, especially as the defect 
is within a PVC pipe. However, if a subsequent water pressure test  were to show 
unacceptable leakage, then we would be agreeable to instruct a local drainage repair 
alone.These conclusions appear reasonable to me based on the evidence available.
Company B  Mr and Mrs Cs appointed engineer
They said the drainage suffers:
 significant and major defects, including sunk and flooded below ground drainage, 
with lack of fall, and pipework fractures, could have been damaged by and or causing 
ground and foundation movement and requires appropriate repair, upgrading and or 
replacement.
The wording the engineer has used here suggests these are possibilities not a conclusive 
cause. But, I have taken into account the strength of language used to describe the condition 
of the drainage.
In regard to the vegetation, Company B said:
At this stage, and subject to the findings from further investigation and monitoring, 
shrinkable soils movement associated with the effect of vegetation and trees may be 
found not to be of overriding significance, or the principal cause of continued ground 
and foundation movement and damage.
They also outlined the potential risks of Admirals proposals, including potential heave. But 
agreed vegetation could be influencing ground and foundation movement. 
Ive carefully considered the engineers comments. But these havent persuaded me the 
conclusions reached by Admirals loss adjusters are wrong or unreasonable. I say this as 
Company Bs commentary around risk is something I would expect Admiral to take into 
account and manage accordingly anyway. Nor do their comments point to a conclusive view 
on the cause nor necessarily rule out Admirals view the subsidence was caused by the 
vegetation. In these circumstances, I wouldnt direct Admiral to fund these Company Bs 
works or reports. 
Company C  Admirals loss adjuster and Company D  drainage specialist 
Company C has said there were no defects to the affected areas of the drains. Ive included 
some of their commentary below following an arranged visit from a separate drainage 
specialist (Company D). 
No defects have been identified to the drains in the area of interest and the drains 
are in a watertight, serviceable condition. This is consistent with our observations and 
assessment at the time of our recent revisit to the property on 17th June 2021.
The report has noted that there is some water standing in some sections of the pipe-
work, which can often be found and will be of no consequence. This is due to the 
relatively shallow fall in the pipework and will have always been the case since the 
drains were installed when the subject kitchen side extension was built. In fact this 
confirms that the drains are not leaking
[Company D] have made no recommendations for any repairs and we agree that 
no works are required to the drains.
The results of the survey further support our view that cause of the damage is root 
induced clay shrinkage subsidence. The level of movement / damage is slight to 
moderate and can be repaired following removal of the adjacent boundary hedge.I find the commentary based on Company Ds evidence to be persuasive, particularly in light 
of the experts certainty on the cause of the damage when coupled with Company As earlier 
findings. As a result, Im satisfied Admirals conclusions and proposals for next steps on this 
claim are fair and reasonable.
Under a subsidence claim of this nature, I would only expect Admiral to be considering the 
cause of the subsidence itself and how to put this right. I wouldnt typically expect this to 
extend to repairs that were unconnected unless these were required for an effective and 
lasting repair. And based on what Ive seen, this is what Admiral has done.
So, based on the available expert opinion Im satisfied its proposed course of action is fair 
and reasonable with the intention of providing an effective and lasting repair. And while I 
understand Mr and Ms Cs concern that this option doesnt provide them with the best long-
term solution, by adopting this approach Im satisfied Admiral will have fairly fulfilled its 
obligations under the terms of the policy. 
Should these works not lead to an effective and lasting repair, I would expect Admiral to 
reconsider the other available options, as it has said it would do following monitoring.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman