DRN-2941058
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) dealt with his claim when 
his boiler broke down.
The SSE Heating Cover policy was administered by OVO (S) Home Services Limited on 
behalf of Amtrust, who are the underwriters of the insurance policy. 
As Amtrust are the underwriters of the insurance policy, they are ultimately responsible for 
dealing with the complaint. For ease, throughout this decision Ill refer only to Amtrust  but 
in doing so this takes into account those parties acting under Amtrusts delegated authority.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in great detail here. But broadly summarised, Mr As boiler broke down on 
27 November 2020 (a Friday) leaving him with no hot water or heating. An engineer was 
arranged. The engineer attended and found the PCB gas valve and spark ignite generator 
faulty. They also found the expansion vessel and PRV were leaking from the high pressure. 
Mr A says the engineer said it was easily repairable and that he would come back on the 
Monday once discussed with the office.
Mr A says because of the time of year, and because his wife suffered from medical 
condition, he purchased two oil heaters to tackle the cold. 
Amtrust, given the cost of the parts alongside the labour deemed that Mr As boiler was 
Beyond Economic Repair. That is to say that the cost of the parts required to repair the 
boiler exceeded the boilers current value based on its age and condition.
Mr A says Amtrust informed him that it wasnt authorising the repairs on 30 November 2020 
in a phone call and also cancelled his policy which he says Amtrust advised was in 
accordance with the terms and conditions.
Mr A says he refused the cancellation and insisted on a second opinion. Another engineer 
attended on 1 December 2020. The second engineer found the same faults as the first 
engineer but also reported that the electrodes were falling to pieces. Mr A says that he 
recollects the engineer advising that the boiler required a new expansion vessel and that the 
expansion vessel was too small for the size of the boiler but that it can be repaired.
Mr A says Amtrust then reluctantly agreed that the repairs could proceed. Mr A says he 
spoke with the engineer and the engineer advised on Wednesday 2 December 2020 that 
they could order the part. Mr A says he was told that the part would arrive Friday at the latest 
and the engineer would then ring to arrange a date to carry out the repair. Mr A says given 
the uncertainty and that he didnt want to be another week without heating and having lost 
faith in Amtrust he arranged for a replacement boiler to protect his wifes health.
Ultimately the boiler repair was cancelled, and Mr A sourced another replacement boiler 
through an independent company. 
Unhappy with how things had been handled, Mr A complained to Amtrust. Mr A considers 
Amtrust should pay for the cost of his new boiler plus the installation costs.
Amtrust looked into the matter and offered Mr A £50 for the service Mr A had received.
Dissatisfied with Amtrusts response, Mr A referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In short, they considered 
Amtrust had fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy in determining whether the 
boiler was Beyond Economic Repair. And then it acted fairly by agreeing to the repairs 
which ultimately Mr A chose not to go ahead with. Our investigator thought Amtrusts 
goodwill offer of £50 was fair.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
It is clear that Mr A, having spoken with the first engineer, was under the impression that the 
boiler could be repaired, and Mr A thought the repair could happen promptly. 
But Amtrust were entitled to review the claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. So Ive reviewed the Policy booklet  and the key terms and conditions applicable 
here, are as follows:
Under section 10. ADDITIONAL GAS PRODUCT EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS it 
states:
10.5. 
If spare parts are available but, in our opinion, your System is considered to be 
Beyond Economic Repair then we will offer you a contribution, at our discretion, 
towards a new boiler. This offer is only valid for 30 days from the date of our 
Engineer visit. We will either provide you with a discount in advance, or a contribution
once you have provided proof (i.e. receipt/invoice) of a new boiler being installed 
within 60 days from when your System was deemed Beyond Economic Repair by our 
Engineer. We will let you know which one will be applicable at our Engineer visit. We 
must approve any contribution in advance of work being undertaken.In regard to the cancellation rights of the policy it states:
Our Termination Rights
16.14. 
We may terminate your Agreement in the following circumstances if:
m) If your System is Beyond Economical Repair and you decline our 
contribution offer for a replacement boiler as explained in clause 10.5; or
n) If there is a Pre Existing Fault or System Deficiency.
16.15. 
If we terminate this Agreement for any reason then the Product will cease 
immediately. We will advise you orally or in writing (whichever occurs first). We will
follow up any oral notification in writing. 
For the avoidance of doubt, you will be responsible for the cost of the Product until 
the date that the Product ceases and any charges as set out in this Agreement.
Certain terms, words and phrases have been further defined/explained within the policy. In 
this case Beyond Economic Repair is an important term and has been further defined 
within the policy booklet as:
when we deem the cost of parts required to repair your boiler exceeds its current 
value based on age and condition
So it is clear, that while Mr A considered that his boiler was repairable, and it seems the 
case that it was, the claim still had to be considered alongside the terms and conditions 
mentioned above. So when Amtrust initially looked at the repair costs following the 
engineers visit  it deemed that it was Beyond Economic Repair. Given the terms and 
conditions of the policy I cant say that Amtrust had acted unfairly. 
That said, after further discussions with Amtrust a second engineer did visit, with Amtrust 
taking the decision that it would go ahead with the repairs. I appreciate this delay would have 
been frustrating for Mr A, but Amtrust were importantly allowed to consider whether the 
boiler was Beyond Economic Repair in the first instance. And ultimately the repairs were 
authorised by Amtrust.
Mr A has said given the delay and Amtrust first advising the boiler was Beyond Economic 
Repair and then agreeing to carry out the repair  and the engineer explaining when the 
parts were likely to arrive (Friday 4 December 2020) and the uncertainty about the 
appointment to carry out the repairs  he chose to get a boiler through another company.
I can understand Mr A wanting to act swiftly, but ultimately this was his choice. I am mindful 
that Amtrust had authorised the engineer to order the parts on Wednesday 2 December 
2020, with the engineer advising the parts would arrive at the latest on Friday 4 December 
2020. So Amtrust had agreed to the repairs, and Mr A ultimately chose not to proceed. I appreciate that the terms and conditions advise that Amtrust would offer, where a 
customers boiler is deemed as Beyond Economic Repair a contribution, at its discretion, 
towards a new boiler. However the terms state that Amtrust must approve any contribution in 
advance of the work being undertaken. So while I dont doubt that Mr A says he was told 
they would contribute approximately £400 or £250 if he used his own contractor  Mr A still 
needed to liaise with Amtrust about this prior to the work being undertaken and Amtrust had 
to approve any contribution prior the work being undertaken. This wasnt done here. So I 
dont find that Amtrust are at fault and dont direct it to pay anything further as it has acted 
within the terms and conditions.
With regards to the policy cancellation, the terms and conditions state when the policy can 
be cancelled and that Amtrust need to provide either oral or written confirmation. As Amtrust 
considered Mr As boiler Beyond Economic Repair  Amtrust considered the policy should 
be cancelled and it advised Mr A of this over the phone. But ultimately Amtrust did then 
authorise the repairs which Mr A chose not to go ahead with, and as explained above Mr A 
hadnt approved a contribution prior to Mr A going ahead with a new replacement boiler  so 
Im mindful that overall the cancellation of the policy was fair. And I note that Amtrust 
refunded the premiums Mr A had paid since the policy renewal on 11 November 2020. 
Finally, I appreciate that Mr A is unhappy that the call recordings arent available. And that is 
understandable. But through his testimony and all the available evidence there was enough 
for me to conclude whether Amtrust had acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance with 
the terms and conditions.
Ultimately, Amtrust were entitled to determine whether the boiler was Beyond Economic 
Repair prior to authorising any repairs. Amtrust, then in my opinion, acted fairly by choosing 
to go ahead with the repairs with Mr A ultimately choosing not to proceed by getting a 
replacement boiler in through another independent company. That was Mr As choice, and 
while I understand his reasoning for doing so, I dont think it would be fair for Amtrust to pay 
Mr A the cost of the new boiler when he chose not to have the repairs on his existing boiler 
carried out. And as Mr A hadnt sought Amtrusts approval regarding a contribution in 
advance of the replacement boiler being purchased and installed, as set out in the terms and 
conditions, I dont find it liable for any additional contribution to the costs and that it was fair 
for the policy to be cancelled. 
I note Amtrust offered Mr A £50, as a gesture of goodwill for the service Mr A received. This 
seems fair as I think the engineers visits gave Mr A an expectation that his boiler could be 
repaired  when ultimately it turned out that while it was likely it could be repaired, Amtrust 
were entitled to firstly consider whether the boiler was in fact Beyond Economic Repair.
My final decision
Amtrust Europe Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Amtrust Europe Limited should pay £50 if it hasnt done so already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman