DRN-2891630
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited unfairly deducted payments 
from its account after chargebacks were raised against it. K wants WorldPay to refund the 
transactions to its account.
 
What happened
WorldPay acts as Ks merchant acquirer and provides a card terminal for transactions to be 
processed by K. 
On 10 November, 19 November and 2 December 2020, three transactions were processed 
using Ks terminal in-store. These transactions were later the subject of chargebacks from 
the card issuer.
K is unhappy that WorldPay didnt do more to warn it about what it needed to look out for 
around fraudulent activities. K thinks that WorldPay owed it a duty of care to give better help 
and support to avoid being the subject of fraudulent transactions.
K was also unhappy about the time it took for WorldPay to alert it to the fraudulent 
transactions. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Ks complaint be upheld. He noted that the 
fraudulent transactions were PAN-key entered and not chip and PIN. The investigator said 
that the terms and conditions of Ks account with WorldPay placed the liability for fraudulent 
PAN-key card transactions on the business accepting them. 
K doesnt accept the investigators recommendation. It says it gave WorldPay evidence of 
the transactions. K points out that as a small business its not enough for WorldPay to simply 
rely on its terms and conditions and that more shouldve been done to alert it to the signs of 
fraud. 
K says that the investigator didnt deal with the question of the delay in notifying it about the 
chargebacks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn that K has been the victim of fraud and lost money as a result. The person 
who was responsible for Ks financial loss managed to carry out three transactions totalling 
more than £500. It mustve been very upsetting for K to discover that the payments it thought 
had been legitimately taken, were then returned through the chargeback process. So, I need 
to consider whether WorldPay treated K unfairly in the way that it dealt with the 
chargebacks.
Chargeback payments are governed by the specific rules of the card scheme. And its 
expected that WorldPay will abide by these rules when dealing with chargeback claims. The 
agreements that WorldPay and K entered into then set out WorldPays obligations to K when 
dealing with such claims. 
Ive had a look at the terms and conditions of Ks agreement K with WorldPay together with 
the Customer Operating Instructions (COI). And Im satisfied that its reasonable of 
WorldPay to make K responsible for the chargebacks arising from the three disputed 
transactions.
Section 6 of the terms and conditions which deal with chargebacks and assessments says:
6. CHARGEBACKS AND ASSESSMENTS 
6.1 Each Chargeback and each Assessment represents a debt immediately due and 
payable by you to us. 
6.2 You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to reimburse us for Chargebacks 
in circumstances where you have accepted payment in respect of the relevant Transaction, 
even if you are under no legal liability in respect of the supply of the goods or services 
concerned. 
6.4 In the event you wish to dispute a Chargeback it is your responsibility (i) to prove to our 
reasonable satisfactionthat the debit of the Buyers account was authorised by such 
Buyer; and to provide us with such other evidence as we may require you to provide in 
support of your claim. 
6.5 Subject to the Scheme Rules, neither we nor any Other Financial Institution shall be 
obliged to investigate the validity of any Chargeback or Assessment. 
So, the terms and conditions of Ks agreement with WorldPay make it clear that K will be 
liable for any successful chargeback. I do not find it was unfair for WorldPay to rely on them.
I understand that K thought the transactions were authorised by chip and PIN but they were 
actually PAN-key entered. This means that the Primary Account Number (PAN) was 
manually keyed into the terminal by the customer. 
The COI tells customers what to do when operating the merchant terminal. It says to never 
magnetic-swipe the card or manually PAN-key the card number into your terminal to avoid 
using the higher-level security features (such as chip and PIN) unless prompted to do so by 
your terminal.if you swipe or key enter a chip card and the transaction is later found to be 
fraudulent, the transaction may be charged back to you. 
The COI says that if its customer does enter the PAN, its best practice to use a manual 
imprinter to obtain an imprint of the card on a paper voucher and complete all details on the 
voucher. The imprint of the card on the paper voucher proves that the card was present 
when the transaction took place. In the event of a chargeback dispute this may be used to 
attempt a defence. However, if found to be fraudulent, the transaction may still be charged 
back to you. 
K says that an authorisation code was generated during the transaction, but the COI 
specifically says this does not confirm the authenticity of the card presenter or the card or 
guarantee settlement of the transaction. The COI also says that authorisation does not 
guarantee payment. It simply means that at the time of the transactions the card has not 
been reported lost or stolen and that there are sufficient funds available. I appreciate that K wouldve liked WorldPay to provide more support than it did. Im satisfied 
that when WorldPay notified K of each chargeback, it offered further assistance by telephone 
and directed K to look online at the COI. 
WorldPay has explained that it wouldnt have been able to successfully challenge the 
chargebacks on Ks behalf. The only evidence it received about the disputed transactions 
related to the first one made on 10 November 2020. K provided a terminal receipt by letter of 
30 November 2020. WorldPay says it wasnt enough to support that the genuine card or 
cardholder were present and party to the transaction. To do this, WorldPay wouldve needed 
to see the imprint voucher as referred to in its COI. 
WorldPay says it didnt receive any further evidence in relation to the second and third 
chargebacks so it couldnt defend them on Ks behalf. But even if it had received the terminal 
receipts at the time, WorldPay wouldnt have been able to defend the chargebacks for the 
same reason as above  that the terminal receipts arent evidence that the genuine card or 
cardholder were present.
K says that it didnt receive WorldPays letter about the second chargeback until after the 
third fraudulent transaction meaning it was too late to alert K and prevent the third 
transaction taking place. I cant blame WorldPay for any delays in the postal system. And Im 
satisfied that K had already received WorldPays letter about the first chargeback before the 
third fraudulent transaction took place. This shouldve alerted K to a potential problem to look 
out for. I cant find that WorldPay was at fault. 
I appreciate that K will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont consider WorldPay 
treated it unfairly when it decided not to go ahead and defend the chargebacks. Im satisfied 
that WorldPay made information available to K to help it protect itself against fraudulent 
transactions. The COI goes in to detail about reducing fraud, including the need for staff 
training. It was up to K to familiarise itself with the relevant terms and operating instructions.
I cant reasonably find that WorldPay shouldve done more than it did. It follows that I dont 
uphold Ks complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman