DRN-2118310
The complaint
Mrs H complains about a term assurance policy sold to her by Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited (Phoenix). She says the adviser didnt explain that the policy would only provide her 
with cover until she was 75 years old.
What happened
Mrs H met with a financial adviser in 2001 and took out a lump sum life cover plan. She paid 
regularly monthly premiums into the policy.
In 2016 Mrs H complained to Phoenix about her policy. A complaints management company 
(CMC) brought the complaint on her behalf. It said Mrs H wasnt willing to take any risk with 
her money. It said she wasnt made aware that the premiums were reviewable and could be 
increased in the future, or her cover reduced. It also said Mrs H was told she would receive a 
lump sum in addition to the life cover and other types of cover werent discussed. 
Phoenix didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It said this was a term assurance policy so there 
wasnt an investment element. It said it was made clear to Mrs H at the point of sale that the 
premiums would be reviewed after her 40th birthday with her age and premium rate being 
used to calculate those premiums. Phoenix said it was also made clear to Mrs H that there 
was no surrender value for the policy. Phoenix said the policy met Mrs Hs objective of 
providing financial assistance for her family in the event of her death.
Mrs H complained to our service in 2020. Mrs H said she understood that shed be
paying into the policy up until the age of 75 but had found out recently that if she lived
beyond that age the policy wouldnt pay out anything. So, Mrs H said she would lose all the 
premiums paid to date.
The service initially considered whether we were able to look at this case due to the time it 
had taken Mrs H to make the complaint. Mrs H provided medical information to explain why 
she had not brought her complaint earlier, and after discussion with the parties, Phoenix 
consented to this service investigating this case.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He said he thought the policy met Mrs Hs 
goal as outlined in the fact find; which was to give Mrs Hs family some protection up until 
her 75th birthday. 
He said the policy purchased by Mrs H had no investment element. It provided life cover but 
if the policy holder survived until the end of the term nothing was given back. He thought this 
was reflected within the documentation provided to Mrs H at the point of sale. 
Mrs H didnt agree with investigators conclusions. She said she had been led to believe the 
policy provided whole-of-life cover. 
As no agreement could be reached Mrs Hs complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H and her husband at the time (they are now divorced) met with a financial adviser in 
2001. 
A fact find was completed which recorded their circumstances and objectives. Mrs H was in 
her mid-thirties and married with a young child. Her job title was recorded as house person 
with no income. It was recorded that Mrs H had a mortgage held jointly with her husband. It 
was also recorded that Mrs Hs priority was life cover and she had an estimated shortfall of 
around £182,000. It was noted that there was a decreasing term assurance policy in place to 
cover their mortgage.
So, I think it is clear from what has been recorded at the time that Mrs Hs goal was to 
protect her family in the event of her death. There was already protection in place to pay off 
the mortgage, but separate life cover wouldve assisted in covering bills and expenses, 
particularly as Mrs H and her husband had a young child. 
However, I note there is nothing recorded to indicate Mrs H wanted whole-of-life cover.
I consider the key features document made it clear that the policy provided a guaranteed 
amount of life cover over a fixed period. It said that the cover under the policy would last 
until the anniversary of the date you started the contract before your 75th birthday. It also 
set out the risk factors for the policy and there it warned that
If you stop paying premiums, all cover will end.
A personal illustration was prepared for Mrs H dated 13 July 2001. It gave details such as 
the amount of the initial premium; the frequency of the premiums and the term of the policy. I 
am satisfied it stated in clear terms that the term of the policy was 40 years. Although I note 
this was changed to 39 years at the point when Mrs H took the policy out because she was a 
year older by then.
 
A letter was sent to Mrs H by the adviser dated 24 July 2001 which summarised the outcome 
of their discussions and the recommendation made. I think this document was significant as 
it represented a summary of what had been discussed.
The letter confirmed that Mrs H had been provided with the key features document for the 
policy and a personal illustration.
It set out Mrs Hs goal which was to provide financially for her loved ones in the event of her 
death.
It described the policy purchased and the features of that policy and said:
Life cover of £182,000 is needed and a lump sum life cover plan has been taken out which 
gives life cover of £182,000. It will run for 40 years and will initially cost £21.84 per month. 
The plan covers you and is owned by you. That means if you die while the plan is in force 
the proceeds would be payable to your estate.
The letter also explained in several bullet points why the adviser thought the recommended 
policy met Mrs Hs needs. It said Mrs H wanted cover for as long as she was supporting her 
family financially and said she was aware the policy could run until her 75th birthday if 
needed.So, I consider Mrs H was made aware that the policy would only last until her 75th birthday. 
I appreciate Mrs H feels she has not received anything back for the premiums she has paid 
in over the years. But Mrs H has had the benefit of life cover protection during the time she 
has paid those premiums. So, in the event of her death during that time Phoenix would have 
had to pay a lump sum to her estate. That money could have been used to assist her family 
and prevent any potential financial hardship as a result of her death.
Term assurance is generally considered to be a cost-effective way of providing life cover. As 
Mrs H had a young child when she took this policy out it was important to cover the period 
until her child was likely to be financially dependent. The term of her policy, 39 years, goes 
on beyond that period but allows some flexibility for life cover to continue if it is required. 
Clearly life cover is still required by Mrs H as her complaint is that her policy doesnt last for 
the whole of her life.
This term assurance policy provided a degree of certainty in the initial years as the 
premiums were set at a certain level until Mrs H reached 40 years. But it was likely that the 
cost of premiums would then increase, as can be seen from the illustration provided to Mrs H 
at the time. The illustration gives some estimated premium costs in the later years. 
An alternative to term assurance would have been a whole-of-life policy. This could be 
reviewable or non-reviewable. Non -reviewable whole-of-life policies tended to be 
significantly more expensive than term assurance or reviewable whole-of-life policies. This is 
because the provider had to guarantee that level of life cover for what could, potentially, be a 
long period, assuming the policy holder carried on paying the premiums. So, I have to 
consider Mrs Hs circumstances at the time including her disposable income. And I dont 
think it more likely than not, that she would have taken out that type of policy if it had been 
recommended because of the cost. 
Another alternative was a reviewable whole-of-life policy. That type of policy has an 
investment element which can have a significant impact on the results of each review of the 
premiums. So, the policy holder could end up with significant increases to their premiums or 
reductions to the level of life cover.
I note in her initial complaint to Phoenix Mrs H said she didnt want to take any risk with her 
money. Whilst the policy she took out also had a reviewable aspect it was determined by 
age and the relevant premium rate and wasnt directly linked to investment returns. So, 
overall, I dont think a reviewable whole-of-life policy would have been attractive to Mrs H, 
taking into account her circumstances and objectives at the time. And, there is nothing 
recorded at the time to indicate she wanted whole-of-life cover. 
I can also see from the summary of recommendations that pension life cover was discussed 
but it was recorded that Mrs H wanted to keep her life cover separate from her pension.  
I have considered what Mrs H has said about the name of the policy and how she took that 
to mean it would provide her with cover for her life. She has also said that a life term policy 
should cover her life term. But, unfortunately the word term relates to the length of the 
policy. Because it allows the policy holder to cover a period of their life when they feel life 
cover is particularly important. 
I also note that Mrs H has explained she trusted the recommendations made by Phoenixs 
representative as she had bought other policies from that representative. However, I dont think the name or details of the policy were misleading. I also think the 
information provided to Mrs H made it clear that the policy had a specific term which was 
defined. 
I am very sorry to hear that Mrs H has suffered with and continues to suffer with, several 
medical conditions and the detrimental impact that has had on her. I also note from the 
medical questionnaire provided at the point of sale that she was having some medical 
difficulties at that time too. However, notwithstanding these difficulties, I think that the 
information provided to Mrs H about the policy at the time was clear.
 
Overall, I m not persuaded on balance that Phoenix misled Mrs H as to how the policy 
operated, or that the policy recommended to Mrs H was unsuitable considering her 
circumstances and objectives.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Hs complaint against Phoenix Life Assurance Limited is not 
upheld for the reasons outlined in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14  November 2020.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman