DRN-3539979
The complaint
Mrs U complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her incorrect information about a 
refund she was expected to receive following a complaint she made about unaffordable 
lending. 
What happened
Mrs U initially made a complaint to Morses about being given loans which she couldnt 
afford. Morses considered this complaint and issued a final response letter on 
14 December 2021. This letter explained Morses was going to be partly uphold her 
complaint about loans 2, 3, 5 and 8. Morses then included a table which showed how the 
refund had been calculated  a copy of which is below. 
Directly underneath this table Morses explained the following:
Please note, the offer outlined in this letter is made in full and final settlement of all 
aspects of your complaint. If you wish to accept this offer, please contact us on 
03300 450 719 to confirm within 14 days of the date of this letter or sign and return 
the back page of the response. Once we receive your bank details, it can take up to 
28 days for the refund to be processed, please allow for the same amount of time if 
any balance adjustments are required as well.
Following receipt of the final response letter Mrs U called Morses on the same day and gave 
her bank details. She says the person she spoke confirmed the funds would be in her bank 
account by 11 January 2022.
 
Mrs U says she called to see whether Morses on 22 December 2021, and at this point was 
told that she wouldnt receive the refund of about £500 instead, this amount would be used 
to reduce her outstanding balance.  
Mrs U wanted to raise a complaint about not being paid the refund directly to her. The notes 
below are taken verbatim from Morses records. 
This is Realky (sic) appalling behaviour and would like to take complaint further 
Three occasions I been told it will be in bank within 28 days and thats what was 
expecting and then to be told no it is not as coming of balance I am not
happy about this and would like to take complaint further as have been mislead 
several times not once.
Morses considered the complaint and issued another final response letter on 
17 January 2022 concerning what Mrs U was told about the refund. 
Morses concluded that the information about the refund in the first final response letter was 
accurate  and it provided a copy of the redress table Ive included above. However, it did 
accept the statement in the first response letter asking for her bank statements was mis-
leading. It also confirmed she had been given incorrect information on several telephone 
calls. 
Morses apologised and offered £20 goodwill for the misleading information.  
Unhappy with this response, Mrs U referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
The case was reviewed by an adjudicator. She concluded that it was reasonable for Morses 
to have used the refund to reduce Mrs Us outstanding balance rather than paying the 
money directly to her. 
She could also see that Morses accepted Mrs U had been provided with mis-leading 
information about the refund, but she thought what Morses had already agreed to do was fair 
and reasonable. She concluded no further compensation was due because Morses had 
acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mrs U didnt agree with the adjudicators outcome. In response in summary she said:
Morses told her that shed receive a refund. 
If no refund was due, why did Morses ask for her bank account details?
Mrs U was told shed receive the refund within 28 days. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered the table Morses included in the final response letter and what I 
duplicated at the start of the decision. Based solely on the table, Im satisfied that Morses did 
provide a clear answer to what was going to happen with the compensation. That being it 
would be used to offset Mrs Us current balance which would reduce to around £1,687. 
Morses wanting to use the refund due to Mrs U to reduce her outstanding balance is in my 
view entirely reasonable and in line with the approach that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service generally takes when a case is upheld, there is a refund due but also an outstanding 
balance. So, Morses using the refund to pay down Mrs Us balance wasnt unreasonable, 
and I also dont think  given what the table shows  that an error was made in the table. 
The table, in my view is an accurate picture of what was going to happen with the redress 
due to Mrs U. 
However, in saying that, the final response letter is mis-leading. It asks Mrs U to call Morses 
to provide bank details  which werent needed because the refund table explained that 
there wouldnt be one. What Morses ought to have done and wouldve made things clearer 
for Mrs U is to ask her to accept the offer it had made for the loans it had upheld, rather than 
asking her to accept the offer and provide bank details. To be clear, bank details didnt need 
to be provided. Ive not been provided a copy of the call where Mrs U accepted Morses offer but I have been 
provided with an internal email from Morses that contains Mrs Us bank details. Which 
indicates and supports what Mrs U says about providing bank details. I dont know the exact 
circumstances of the telephone conversation, but at the very least, I know bank details were 
taken. 
Mrs U says she was then given a date at which the refund would be paid, which is likely 
around 28 days from the date of her call. Again, this wouldve been another opportunity by 
Morses to have clarified what was going to happen with the redress Mrs U believed she was 
getting. However, this was missed, and Mrs U ended the call, quite reasonably, believing 
she was due a refund of around £500. 
Overall, Morses has accepted something went wrong here and I agree. Mrs U, due to 
conflicting information in the final response letter as well as her conversation with Morses 
agents believed she was going to get a refund of around £500.
Mrs U discovered there was a problem around 22 December 2021 which was just over a 
week after she provided Morses with her bank details. This error was discovered quite 
quickly. I can see from her testimony that she may have already, earmarked the refund for 
further spending. Ultimately, when Mrs U found out that she wasnt going to receive a refund, 
there has been a loss of expectation as to what was going to happen. 
I understand why Mrs U wants this money paid to her now, unfortunately, in this case I dont 
think that is fair. I say this because Mrs U still owes a not insignificant amount of money and 
it wouldnt be right to give her a refund when there is still an outstanding balance to be paid. 
If it did so, then Morses would just be increasing Mrs U indebtedness which isnt fair.  
Also, I wouldnt in this case, seek to make the incorrect information  that she would receive 
a refund, correct. i.e. Morses is bound to pay her the refund because it told her on a 
telephone call. Instead, what Ive considered is whether the £20 offered to and paid by 
Morses is fair. 
Morses, has already accepted something went wrong here, offered an apologised and paid 
her £20 for the distress that it caused. Ive thought about this carefully and given that Mrs U 
wasnt going to ever receive the money she thought she was going to get, the error was 
discovered quite clearly afterwards and Morses has apologised. Overall, given the 
circumstances, I wont be asking Morses to pay any more. 
There is still an outstanding balance that needs to be settled by Mrs U (with the balance 
having potentially been sold to a third party) but Mrs U must be treated fairly and with 
forbearance  if required while repaying what is owed. 
I appreciate Mrs U will be disappointed by my decision, but I do hope my explanation has 
been helpful for her to understand why I have reached the outcome that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Us complaint and Morses Club 
PLC  should make the payment of £20 outlined in the second final response letter if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 Robert Walker
Ombudsman