DRN-2866730
The complaint
Mr H complains that Godiva Mortgages Limited wont transfer his mortgage onto a new 
interest rate without the consent of the joint party. As a result, he says his mortgage is stuck 
on the Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr H and his former wife owned a buy to let mortgaged property with Godiva. Mr H applied 
for a new rate in 2018 but unfortunately, as he was unable to gain consent from the joint 
party, a new rate was not agreed, and his mortgage reverted to the SVR. 
Recently, he complained to Godiva who responded to say that it couldnt change the 
mortgage onto a new rate without agreement from the other party. 
Mr H brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the 
complaint, so Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im sorry to hear of the difficult situation that Mr H is in and I can appreciate his 
frustrations regarding this matter.
Typically, to secure a new rate on a mortgage, a borrower would need to pay a product fee 
or would be charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) if, for any reason, the mortgage is 
exited prior to the end of the agreed period. So, whilst fixing a rate can have benefits in 
terms of reducing the interest rate charged - there are also potential disadvantages which 
could have an impact on both account holders. 
Godiva has said that its usual policy is to only allow a product transfer if both borrowers 
consent to it. But it also said it may consider a change if it would be in the best interests of 
both account holders. 
Here unfortunately, there were no better rate products available to Mr H at the time of his 
request that didnt require a product fee to be paid or for an ERC to be applied on early exit  
both of which could potentially impact both account holders. 
Im aware that other lenders might offer different rates without requiring a product fee or an 
ERC to be paid but unfortunately, from what Ive seen, Godiva didnt at the time - other than 
the SVR rate that the mortgage reverted to. 
Both parties are joint and severally liable for the mortgage and so I think its fair for Godiva to 
consider what is in the best interests of both customers, rather than the request of one 
account holder only. 
I appreciate that Mr H has been making the mortgage payments in recent years, but both 
parties remain jointly liable for the borrowing. Because of this, consent is needed from both 
parties before any changes can be made to the mortgage. 
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr H but having thought about 
everything, I dont consider that Godiva has treated him unfairly in declining his request for a 
new interest rate on his mortgage without the agreement of the other account holder. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Ombudsman