DRN-2865840
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander (UK) Consumer plc only offered repair not rejection for a 
faulty bike acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement. He would like to reject the bike
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Mr G took out an agreement for a new bike and as such could reasonably have 
expected it to be fault free. He took out his agreement in September 2019 but only 
raised issues in November 2019 so, he was outside of the 30-day time limit to 
automatically reject the bike  if faults were proven. So, I dont think Santander were 
wrong to not let Mr G reject his bike but to offer repair instead.
Its clear  Santander tried unsuccessfully several times, and by several means, to 
contact Mr G to arrange an independent inspection of the bike, as did the inspection 
company. Mr G eventually replied  to say he was away but doesnt seem to have 
made any effort to pursue an inspection. In its final response letter Santander again 
offered an independent inspection but again Mr G seems not to have taken this up. I 
think Santander were right to try to arrange the inspection.
Its unfortunate Mr G didnt allow the independent inspection and I dont know why 
that was. These inspections confirm if there are point of sale issues or not. Had the 
inspection taken place after the repair work, I would have expected the report to 
advise if repairs were successful, why the post repair throttle issue arose and if there 
were further areas of rust which I know was one of Mr Gs concerns. These reports 
also typically state if vehicles are safe to drive or not again one of Mr Gs concerns.
Whilst I am concerned about the number of issues with a new bike as I understand it 
the repairs were successful  I have no evidence they werent or that the throttle 
issue was a new issue for which Santander was responsible. Rather than going back 
to Santander about the repair work or new issues it seems Mr G decided to dispose 
of the bike instead.  I am sympathetic to the problems Mr G has had but I dont feel I 
have any evidence to show Santander should have allowed rejection. I think it acted 
appropriately in offering repair and in trying to arrange an independent inspection.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman