DRN-1424002
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in March1993. Mrs T says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs T took out her store card ending (0287) in November 1990. In March 1993 she took out 
a PPI policy that was sold to her over the telephone. Mrs T has now complained that the PPI 
was mis-sold but AXA hasnt upheld her complaint. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with AXAs response, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mrs T remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and shall explain why.
Mrs T already had her credit card in 1990 and she was sold the PPI over the telephone three 
years later in 1993. AXA do not have a recording of the call as it was so long ago but it had 
in place processes that would indicate the information that should have been given to Mrs T. 
Documents would have been sent out to Mrs T after the call to provide full information about 
the policy.
I cannot be certain exactly what was said over the telephone and whether full information 
about the PPI was given to Mrs T. She says it wasnt clear the PPI was optional, and she 
believes it was added without her knowledge. I dont doubt that what Mrs T has told us is her 
honest recollection of what happened but given the passage of time since this all happened 
memories can fade.
Mrs T already had the store card when she was sold the PPI over the telephone. So clearly 
she knew she could have the card without any PPI policy. I think in these circumstances it 
must have been clear at the time to Mrs T that she had a choice whether to take out the PPI 
or not. When she got her first statement showing the PPI payment, as she had previously 
seen statements without it, I am sure she would have questioned why it had been added if 
she didnt know about it. So I think she knew the PPI was optional and she chose to take it.There was in place a standard sales process which AXA says would have been followed. I 
cannot be certain the process would have been followed correctly. So, I have to consider the 
surrounding facts available and make my decision based on what most likely may have 
happened.
AXA had to make sure that Mrs T got the information she needed to allow her to decide if the 
PPI was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it looks like she was 
eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover. For example, she had no unusual employment conditions and no medical 
conditions she already knew about that could have limited claims for sickness. So, the policy 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong.
Mrs Ts employer would pay sick pay if she was unwell. But the PPI wouldve paid a benefit 
in addition to any sick pay Mrs T received. Mrs T has not indicated she had any savings so 
again the PPI would have assisted if she wasnt working for any reason so that her other 
resources, such as sick pay, could have been used for other living expenses. 
It looks like the PPI was affordable and the benefit that could have been paid in the event of 
a claim was reasonable taking account of the cost of the PPI.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs T off taking out the cover. So, it follows I dont think the PPI was mis-
sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold to Mrs T by AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman