DRN-4367851
The complaint
Mr C complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) provided him with a hire purchase 
agreement which wasnt affordable.
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in July 2022 to fund the 
acquisition of a car. The cash price was £20,450 and Mr C agreed to pay a deposit of £250 
as well as 48 monthly payments of £376.54 and a final payment of £6,997. The total 
repayable was £25,320.
Mr C says that in the same month the agreement started his relationship ended, meaning 
that his monthly financial commitments increased significantly. He says he asked Black 
Horse for help but it didnt assist him. He raised a complaint with Black Horse because he 
didnt think it had carried out appropriate affordability checks and had failed to help him when 
hed asked. He also said that Black Horse had unfairly attempted to recover the car several 
times, which had caused him anxiety. 
Black Horse responded to the complaint in July 2023. In summary, it said that it was satisfied 
reasonable and proportionate checks of Mr Cs ability to repay the agreement had been 
carried out. It said it had offered to allow Mr C to return the car by way of voluntary 
termination at the point he made it aware his circumstances had changed, but Mr C had 
chosen not to do this. Lastly, it said that that it had acted fairly by attempting to recover the 
car, given that payments had not been made towards the agreement, and it believed Mr C 
was using the car.
Mr C referred the matter to this service, and in doing so he added that he believed the car 
had been misrepresented to him as it didnt come with the service history he says he was led 
to believe it would. He also said that he had no income at the time of his application because 
the business hed owned had ended sometime in 2020. 
Our investigator made no finding on Mr Cs assertion of a misrepresentation because it 
wasnt part of his complaint made to Black Horse, so it hadnt had the opportunity to respond 
to it. 
Our investigator highlighted that the checks that Black Horse carried out showed a 
significant discrepancy between the income Mr C had declared and what he appeared to be 
earning  Mr C declared an annual income of £87,000 per year but the checks Black Horse 
completed using data from a credit reference agency only found an annual income of 
£46,767, based on current account turnover. They also pointed out that Mr Cs credit history 
showed signs of recent financial instability in the run up to his application for this agreement. 
They said that Black Horse ought to have asked Mr C for more evidence or information 
about his income, rather than relying on data it received from a credit reference agency. So, 
they didnt find that Black Horse had completed reasonable and proportionate checks of Mr 
Cs ability to meet the repayments under the agreement. 
They went on to consider what Black Horse might have found if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks. They ultimately found that Black Horse had made a reasonable 
lending decision because it appeared that the agreement was affordable, based on what Mr 
C had demonstrated about his financial position at the time. 
Our investigator also found that Black Horse had treated Mr C fairly by outlining various 
options he had to repay the agreement, and said that it had acted in line with the agreement 
in doing so. They also didnt think that Black Horse had treated Mr C unfairly by attempting 
to recover the car. 
Mr C disagreed. He disputed that Black Horse had tried to help in the way our investigator 
had found and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the case. 
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Black Horse carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Black Horse will be familiar with the rules, regulation and good industry practice we take into 
account in considering complaints about unaffordable and/ or irresponsible lending. As a 
result, I dont find it necessary to set it all out in this decision. In any case, information about 
our approach to these types of complaint can be found on our website.
I agree with our investigator that in the particular circumstances of this case Black Horse 
didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks of Mr Cs ability to repay the lending it 
gave him. I say this in the most part because I think it ought to have asked him further 
questions about his income, given that the checks it did appear to show that Mr C earned 
significantly less than hed declared. Additionally, his credit history also showed recent signs 
of financial instability. 
At the outset I acknowledge that its clear to see that Mr C struggled in making repayments 
towards this agreement very early on in the agreement. It seems he initially accounted for 
that by explaining an unfortunate change of circumstances causing his outgoings to 
increase. 
However, hes more recently said that he didnt have an income at the time of his 
application. I think its fair to say that the information Mr C has presented hasnt been 
particularly consistent, particularly regarding his income and committed expenditure at the 
time of the application. And I think hes been given fair and ample opportunity to provide that 
evidence. 
Our investigator asked Mr C to provide copies of bank statements for all of the accounts he 
used for living expenses in the run up to the application. He provided statements for one 
account, but not the other which is represented on his credit file as still open. He says its 
closed and he has no access to those particular statements. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as it is in this case  Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our investigator noted that whilst there was no clear income being paid into the account for which Mr C provided statements, there were significant sums paid in during the months 
leading up the application which seem to have come from another account in Mr Cs name. 
Mr C has not accounted for his ability to make those payments, nor the current account 
turnover which Black Horses statistical checks identified as £2,920 per month. They also 
noted that Mr C appeared to be in receipt of a regular benefit payment too.
Our investigator also asked Mr C to account for his outgoings and sought clarity on his 
mortgage payments in particular. They noted a mortgage payment for £1,682 on Mr Cs 
statement, more than double the amount that hed told Black Horse about. Mr C told us that 
the payments had now increased to around £5,000. Hes not provided evidence to support 
this, despite being asked. Our investigator also noted a number of payments out of the 
account Mr C provided statements for and asked him to account for what they were, but I 
dont think that Mr C has been able to do that. 
Overall, using the evidence thats been provided, our investigator calculated that Mr C had a 
regular monthly committed expenditure of around £2,277 per month at the time of his 
application. From what hes said at the time of his application Mr Cs commitment towards 
his mortgage was significantly less than £1,682, due to only having to pay a portion of it.  
Nonetheless, the figure our investigator calculated allowed a mortgage payment of £1,682 
as well as other essential payments represented on his statements such as other debts, 
taxes and telecommunication accounts. Having reviewed the evidence provided, I agree that 
figure is likely accurate, based on what Mr C has provided.
The income which Black Horse found Mr C was receiving was £2,920 per month. I know that 
Mr C disputes having an income at the time, but I think theres persuasive evidence to 
suggest otherwise  both in the form of what Black Horse found by way of current account 
turnover using data from a credit reference agency as well as what our investigator found 
represented on Mr Cs bank statements. I also dont think that Mr C has been able to 
adequately account for all of the sums being paid into the account hes provided statements 
for, nor given reliable evidence of his committed expenditure. 
In reality, I dont think weve been provided a full picture of Mr Cs financial position at the 
time. Despite being asked and given ample opportunity, I dont think hes been able to 
account for discrepancies regarding his income, nor has he provided reliable evidence 
regarding his committed expenditure.
Regardless, I think weve been provided with enough evidence to show that Mr C was likely 
receiving an income (or at least had sums available) of around £2,920 per month (if not in 
the region of £3,200 taking into account a benefit payment) at the time of his application. It 
wouldve left him with around £900 disposable income per month (if not more depending on 
the situation with his mortgage payment), which is a sufficient amount to say that the 
agreement in question was affordable to him at the time of his application. Based on what 
Ive seen, I think that Mr C likely wouldve been able to demonstrate that to Black Horse if it 
had asked, and it ultimately and likely wouldve ended up at the same lending decision. 
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonable in some other way? 
The evidence Ive seen shows that Mr C told Black Horse he wasnt able to make 
repayments towards the agreement in September 2022. Black Horses contact notes show 
that hed asked to return the car but wasnt happy for the costs hed incur in voluntary 
termination of the agreement. 
The notes show that Black Horse set out options available to Mr C including voluntary 
termination, voluntary surrender, as well as the option of discussing a buy-back with the 
supplying dealer. It appears that Mr C wanted to be able to sell the car privately and for Black Horse to waive any shortfall. It seems to me that Mr C and Black Horse were unable to 
reach an agreement.
Like our investigator, Ive found that Black Horse acted in line with the terms of the 
agreement it had with Mr C in setting out the termination options available to him. I dont 
think there was any obligation for Black Horse to have short settled the agreement or to have 
let Mr C sell the car and write off a shortfall. 
Im aware that Mr C disputes that he was told some of the options to terminate the 
agreement and our investigator found was represented on Black Horses contact notes. But 
Ive no reason to believe that those records are inaccurate. Ultimately, Im persuaded that 
Black Horse treated Mr C fairly in respect of his request to sell the car and/ or terminate the 
agreement.
It's clear from what hes said that Mr C finds himself in an unfortunate position whereby hes 
struggling to make the payments required under the agreement  as far as Im aware only 
one payment has been made to date. And Im sorry to hear that hes been distressed by 
Black Horses attempts to recover the car, which include visits from collection agents. 
However, taking into account that the agreement is significantly in arrears and that Mr C 
does not seem to have accepted any of the termination options that are available to him, I 
dont think its unfair that Black Horse has made attempts to recover the car. And based on 
what Ive seen and from what Mr C has said, I dont think that any of the attempts that Black 
Horse has made have been unreasonable or in any way excessive. 
Moving forward Mr C might want to consider engaging with Black Horse about the options 
available to him and I remind Black Horse of its obligations under relevant guidance to treat 
Mr C with due consideration and forbearance. 
Lastly, Im aware that Mr C asserts that the car was mis-sold to him on the basis that it didnt 
come with the service history he was told it would. That point was not addressed by Black 
Horse in its response to this complaint, so I make no finding on it. Mr C is free to raise it as a 
separate issue, should he wish. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman