DRN-2653632
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the repairs carried out to a sink by AXA Insurance UK 
Plc under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B contacted AXA to make a claim for accidental damage resulting from a cup 
falling into their sink and causing a chip. AXA appointed a specialist contractor to repair the 
damage. However, Mr and Mrs B reported to AXA that shortly after these works took place, 
the spray that had been used in the repairs had started to come off the sink.
AXA arranged for the contractor to return and repair the sink again. In the course of carrying 
out this second repair, Mr and Mrs B say that the contractor used a knife around the waste. 
They consider that this contributed to further damage being caused to the surface of the 
sink. Mr and Mrs B complained to AXA, stating that the sink had not been properly repaired.
In response, AXA concluded that scratches on the sink were not the result of a failed repair 
by its contractor. Instead its view was that the scratches were likely caused by aftercare 
guidance not being followed correctly by Mr and Mrs B. In particular AXA considers that the 
way in which the sink is being cleaned may be damaging it. It says that if the repair had 
failed, it would expect to see blistering in the area where the repair had taken place.
Unhappy with AXAs stance, Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. His view was that on balance the damage to 
the sink was not the result of a failed repair.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings. They have stated that they did not 
ask AXAs contractor to run a knife around the waste during the second repair visit, and he 
chose to do this without their consent. Mr and Mrs B consider the contractor broke the seal 
of the repair he carried out, having just resprayed the sink, and that this has caused the paint 
to flake.
Mr and Mrs B say they categorically deny that theyre using any scourers on the sink that 
might be damaging it during cleaning. They have also questioned why the damage to the 
sink is not more widespread, if it has been caused by their cleaning regime. They have only 
identified three small areas where they say that the repair has failed.
In terms of scratches on the chrome waste Mr and Mrs B have explained that these were 
there before they made their insurance claim. Theyre not clear why the contractor sprayed 
around this area of the sink, when the crack he came to repair was some distance from this. 
Mr and Mrs B have asked whether the 12 month guarantee that AXAs contractor offers has 
been taken into account. They have also requested for an independent expert to be 
appointed to inspect the sink.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the home insurance policy, AXA has the right to repair or replace the 
damaged item, or make a payment in respect of the damaged part. When the claim was 
made, AXA explained that it would attempt to repair the sink, but if it was unable to do so, it 
would look to provide a like for like replacement.
AXAs contractor went to Mr and Mrs Bs house twice in order to repair the sink. The 
contractor provided its opinion that the first repair attempt was carried out to a good 
standard. However, Mr and Mrs B told AXA that following the first repair, the spray that had 
been applied was coming off. This resulted in the contractor carrying out the second repair.
During the second visit, the contractor resprayed the sink. Having done so, Mr and Mrs B 
have stated the attending technicians final action was to run a knife around the waste. They 
consider that in doing so, he broke the seal of the repair hed just carried out, and this has 
meant that they have experienced flaking paint in three areas. AXA and its contractor do not 
accept that the repair has failed. AXAs conclusion is that Mr and Mrs Bs cleaning regime 
has caused the damage complained about.
I cannot be sure why the sink is currently exhibiting the damage that Mr and Mrs B have 
highlighted. In the circumstances, I must assess this matter based on the weight of evidence 
provided. AXAs contractor is of the opinion that it repaired the damage caused by the 
original insurance claim.  In the absence of expert evidence to contradict this, on balance my 
view is that it is more likely than not that AXAs contractor did repair the sink damage 
claimed for.
Mr and Mrs B have asked that an independent expert be appointed to report on the repair to 
the sink. Whilst I understand why they have requested this, I do not consider it would be 
reasonable for me to require AXA to arrange such an inspection. Based on the two visits 
made by its contractor, and AXAs own consideration of the claim, my view is that it is 
reasonable for AXA to conclude that the repair it arranged as part of the insurance claim has 
been completed. For the same reasons, although I note Mr and Mrs Bs comments about the 
contractors 12 month guarantee on its works, based on my findings above, I dont consider 
that currently AXA should require the contractor to carry out further work on the sink.
I have carefully considered the detailed description of the events surrounding the insurance 
claim that Mr and Mrs B have provided, and I appreciate that they are likely to be 
disappointed with my findings. However overall, my conclusion is that there isnt sufficient 
evidence to show that the repair arranged by AXA has failed. Consequently I consider that 
AXA has acted fairly in its handling of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
John Swain
Ombudsman