DRN-3746034
The complaint
Mrs T complains Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) are asking 
her to pay a fee for a successful mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. Mrs T 
said shed already paid a fee for her successful claim to another claims management 
company (CMC).
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs T said she was told by her lender Ill call B that shed a successful PPI 
claim. She said the CMC shed authorised to act on her behalf, Ill call  them C asked her to 
pay their success fee. Mrs T said she paid the fee. But FTR are now asking her to pay their 
fee for the same claim. Mrs T said it wasnt FTR but C whod done the work and brought 
about her mis-sold PPI claim to a successful end. Mrs T complained to FTR.
FTR said Mrs T had signed a letter of authority (LoA) in April 2019 instructing them to pursue 
a mis-sold PPI claim for her. Mrs T had also completed a PPI questionnaire and FTR said 
theyd had sent this along with a letter of complaint to B in May 2019. FTR said Mrs T 
hadnt cancelled her instructions to them. And as theyd submitted the claim, and the claim 
was successful their fee was justified.
Mrs T wasnt happy with FTRs response she said shed paid C as they were the CMC that 
had helped her win her claim. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTR had shown theyd submitted Mrs Ts claim to her lender. And while 
it seems there was more than one CMC involved with Mrs Ts claim. B had clearly said in 
their final response letter that the decision had been made based on the claim submitted by 
FTR. So, FTR could ask for their fee.
Mrs T didnt agree. She said it wasnt fair for FTR to now say their fee was due over a year 
after shed already paid the fee to C. She said she hadnt authorised FTR to act for her. 
Mrs T asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know Mrs T will be disappointed with my 
decision, so Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. In reaching my decision I need to determine whether the success fee FTR is 
asking Mrs T to pay is justified. And whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with Mrs T.
FTR has provided an audit trail for Mrs Ts mis-sold PPI claim with them. This shows an 
online application was made in March 2019, and a LoA submitted. I can see FTR told Mrs T 
in early April 2019 that B had found shed PPI. And they ask Mrs T to sign another LoA and 
to complete a PPI questionnaire in support of her mis-sold PPI claim.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the free PPI check ends and you authorise FTR to continue to 
provide you with the claims service
The terms and conditions go on to show the fee that would be charged for FTRs claims 
service and examples of how much this would be dependent on the compensation paid.
In May 2019 I can see that FTR sent the signed LoA, and the completed PPI questionnaire 
along with a letter of complaint to B. FTR received an acknowledgement from B that    
Mrs Ts claim had been received a few days later. The acknowledgement accompanied a 
copy of the letter B said theyd sent to Mrs T, with a reference number ending *3180. And 
related to two loans, *8745 and *4710.
So, Im satisfied that Mrs T instructed FTR to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim for her. And that 
FTR had made her aware that there would be a fee payable should her claim be successful.
The agreement Mrs T would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis.
This means FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of
work they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for
free. Where a claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
Ive considered whether Mrs T cancelled the agreement shed with FTR.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel your claim(s) at any time up to 14 days from the date your claim(s) are 
submitted to the company (Cooling-Off period) at no cost to you unless FTR have received a 
reasonable offer of compensation within the Cooling- Off period
And goes on to explain the various ways Mrs T can contact them to cancel the agreement. 
The terms and conditions also make clear that:
..if we sent a Letter of Complaint and you go on to receive an offer from the lender our fee 
will be due..
FTR said they submitted Mrs Ts claim 1 May 2019, this meant Mrs T would have had up to 
14 May 2019 to cancel her agreement with FTR without incurring any fee. But I havent seen 
any evidence that Mrs T cancelled the agreement before the compensation offer was made 
in July 2019. 
From FTRs notes I can see that in November 2020  after being contacted by FTR Mrs T 
said shed authorised another CMC. The notes say Mrs T was told to contact her lender and 
that the call was disconnected. FTR said they tried to call back, but the call went to 
voicemail. By this time, I think Mrs T would have known her claim had been resolved 
successfully.From the evidence Ive seen FTR submitted Mrs Ts mis-sold PPI claim to B. But shed also 
asked another CMC to act for her. And shed given the other CMC her authority for her claim 
with B. When she was asked by B which CMC she wanted  to represent her, as theyd 
two LoAs, she told B the other CMC was representing her, so B sent their final response 
letter to them, and not to FTR. 
Ive looked at Bs final response letter, July 2019,  which was also sent to Mrs T and  this 
clearly states the offer relates to Mrs Ts account *8745, the same account referenced in  the 
acknowledgement letter B sent in April 2019 to both FTR and Mrs T. The final response 
letter also says:
I have made my decision after reviewing the information provided by you and the 
information provided by Fast Track Reclaim and our internal system evidence.
I can understand Mrs Ts frustration as shes paid a fee for her successful claim. And FTR 
hadnt asked for their fee until over a year after shed paid this. But I cant see that FTR were 
told she no longer wanted them to represent her and neither were they sent the final 
response letter from B. So, FTR wouldnt have known at the time that Mrs Ts claim was 
successful. Neither Mrs T nor B told FTR about the outcome of her mis-sold PPI claim. But 
I think Mrs T and the other CMC should have been aware from the outcome letter from B 
that the success of Mrs Ts mis-sold PPI claim was based on the submission from FTR. 
As outlined above Mrs T had a No Win No Fee agreement with FTR. From the evidence I 
can see FTR submitted her mis-sold PPI claim before the other CMC. And this claim was 
successful. As Mrs T hadnt cancelled her agreement with FTR, I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in asking her to pay their fee for her successful claim.. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman