DRN-3023279
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his application for a business bank 
account  which meant he couldnt then apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. 
What happened
Mr M wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan with HSBC. As part of HSBCs process, it 
required all businesses applying under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme to have either a 
business or feeder account with the bank before they could apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
So in early May 2020, Mr M applied to open a feeder account with HSBC, but his application 
was declined. HSBC said this was because of adverse credit information on Mr Ms credit 
file.
 
Mr M was unhappy, so he made a complaint. He said the bank had told him there wouldnt 
be any credit checks when applying for the account. He also said that HSBC had made him 
apply for a business current account (BCA) instead of a feeder account, which was unfair as 
the BCA was subject to more stringent checks than a feeder account.  And he said the bank 
had incorrectly told him there were no terms and conditions for the feeder account.
Mr M also made HSBC aware that he was a vulnerable customer and the process hed gone 
through with the bank was affecting his health. He said hed been lied to throughout the 
process and wanted compensation for the time hed spent trying to correct HSBCs errors. 
He also made a subject access request (SAR) to obtain the records and calls of his 
discussions with HSBC throughout the application process.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. The bank said it had declined Mr Ms application in 
line with its eligibility criteria and suggested he approach his own bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan. The bank said it had processed a feeder account application, not a bank account 
application and apologised for not making Mr M aware that he would be credit checked as 
part of the process. Mr M remained unhappy and contacted HSBC again but when he didnt 
receive a satisfactory response, he asked this service to look into his complaint.
 
Our investigator reviewed what happened and recommended the complaint be upheld in 
part. She said it was reasonable for HSBC to decide how it accepted applications from new 
customers and to request they open a business account so the bank could comply with their 
obligations.
 
She also said HSBC was entitled to assess applications against their criteria  including a 
credit check  as these accounts were separate products from the Bounce Back Loan. And 
she thought HSBCs decision to decline Mr Ms application had been reasonable because 
hed not met the banks criteria, and she was satisfied Mr M had been given the terms and 
conditions explaining the checks hed be subject to.
However, our investigator wasnt convinced the application Mr M had completed was for a 
feeder account, which she thought had caused him distress as Mr M felt hed been 
misinformed by HSBC. And she thought there had been a significant delay by the bank in 
providing the response to Mr Ms SAR. So she said HSBC should pay £200 compensation.
HSBC accepted our investigators view but Mr M didnt. He felt the compensation amount 
was too low, as it had taken HSBC nearly a near to respond to his SAR and hadnt provided 
his calls with the bank within it.
  
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold it. Ill explain why.
Although the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had 
some discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing 
customers. And while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers applying under 
the Scheme had a business relationship, lenders were entitled to require one. 
The Scheme terms said credit checks and affordability werent required to obtain a Bounce 
Back Loan, but this didnt apply when a borrower was entering into a business relationship 
with the lender. When applying for a new account, a potential borrower would then be 
subject to the lenders usual account opening process. 
HSBC has confirmed that these criteria remained unchanged from before the Scheme was 
introduced. So I think it was reasonable for HSBC to undertake credit checks in line with 
their account opening process, and I cant say the bank has treated Mr M unfairly by 
declining his account application, as he didnt meet the banks criteria. 
Mr M has also told us HSBC has an obligation to provide him with a basic bank account  
which I dont disagree with. However, the account Mr M is referencing is a personal rather 
than business account and wouldnt have helped in obtaining a Bounce Back Loan, as it 
wouldnt have provided the business relationship required by HSBC.
Mr M said he was told on a call with HSBC before he applied that the account application 
wouldnt be subject to a credit check. HSBC hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call so 
I cant say what was said to Mr M, or in what context. However even if HSBC did make a 
mistake when explaining the account opening process, its not for us to fine or punish a 
business for making a mistake and HSBC would always have been completing a credit 
check as part of their account opening process.  
Mr M also told us he wasnt given a copy of the terms and conditions of the account so he 
wasnt aware that he would be credit checked before the application was submitted. But Ive 
seen evidence of HSBCs system audit trail for Mr Ms application, which shows he had sight 
of these in May 2020. So I cant say he wouldnt have been aware of the checks HSBC 
would have been undertaking before he applied for the account.  
So based on what Ive seen, I think its clear that if Mr M wanted a Bounce Back Loan with 
HSBC, he needed to apply for a BCA with the bank. And I think its likely that even if he had 
been told there was a credit check as part of the application process, he would still have 
gone ahead with the application due to his financial situation at the time. 
Mr M says HSBC unfairly put through an application for a BCA which meant more checks 
than the feeder account that he thought he was applying for. HSBC has told us they 
processed a feeder account application for Mr M, but Im not persuaded thats the case. Ive looked at the application form Mr M completed with HSBC, and Ive seen the feeder account 
application form from HSBC, and I dont these are the same application forms  due to both 
the different questions and the amount of questions asked. 
HSBC also hasnt evidenced that Mr M applied for a feeder account during his appointment 
with the bank. So I think HSBC made an error when processing Mr Ms application, and I 
think it was reasonable that he felt HSBCs actions impacted his ability to apply for a Bounce 
Back Loan under the scheme.
However, I dont think this made a material difference to the outcome of Mr Ms application. I 
say this because HSBC has told us it would have completed the same credit checks for both 
the accounts  so the application, whether for a feeder account or a BCA, would always 
have been declined due to the outcome of these checks. 
Mr M was unhappy he was asked to provide evidence of his business trading for his 
application. However, the Scheme rules say the checks a borrower will be subject to when 
applying for a loan from any lender included, customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering (AML) 
and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. So HSBC was entitled to request information in 
order to carry out these checks and I think the request it made of Mr M was reasonable. 
Mr M also told us he was frustrated that HSBC took nearly a year to process his subject 
access request and when it was received, the requested calls werent present. I 
acknowledge this would have been very frustrating for Mr M as he already felt let down by 
HSBCs actions. 
However, responding to this type of request isnt a regulated activity and Ive seen that our 
investigator has said to Mr M that the Information Commissioners Office can look at his 
complaint about this. But as Ive explained, I dont think the call Mr M had with HSBC would 
make a material difference to my decision, so my focus remains on the processing of the 
account application. 
Mr M has told us he was caused distress and inconvenience because of the incorrect 
information he was given, HSBCs decision to decline his application and the amount of time 
hed spent chasing the bank for updates. He also said he felt HSBCs actions had 
jeopardised his chances of getting a Bounce Back Loan and saving his business, and I can 
see why he would have felt this way. 
Although I dont think HSBCs decision to decline the application was unreasonable, I think 
the incorrect information he was given, along with completing the wrong application form and 
chasing the bank repeatedly, caused him more distress than someone who didnt suffer from 
his vulnerability.
So for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think HSBC processed Mr Ms account 
application in a reasonable way. Its clear the banks handling of his application caused Mr M 
distress and inconvenience, so to put things right I think HSBC should pay him £200 
compensation to address this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman