DRN-4085991
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr O and Miss V applied for through Countrywide 
Principal Services Limited trading as Countrywide Mortgage Services (CMS). There are 
several strands to the complaint, chief amongst which is that the mortgage advisor 
apparently told them, wrongly, that Mr O would need to change his SA302 self-assessment 
for income tax purposes in order for an application to pass affordability.
The mortgage application didnt proceed but Mr O and Miss V were able to complete on their 
intended house purchase with a mortgage from a different lender arranged via a different 
broker firm, albeit the mortgage is on higher interest rate than the one theyd applied for 
through CMS. 
Mr O and Miss V are seeking compensation for the extra tax liability Mr O has incurred from 
changing his self-assessment, the extra interest theyre paying on the mortgage, and the 
stress they experienced as a result of what they consider CMS poor service and behaviour 
towards them.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr O and Miss V and CMS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr O and Miss V being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. Ill address each strand of the complaint in turn, using broadly the same headings 
the investigator used in her view. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, Im required to reach my decision on 
the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same test used by the courts in civil cases.
Arranging a mortgage isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. There may be 
anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but occasionally things take 
longer than expected. Also, queries and issues might arise that couldnt have been predicted 
at the outset, and which either delay the application or take it in an unexpected direction. But 
thats only partly what happened here.
The delay in requesting SA302s
CMS has admitted these should have been requested at the start of the application process, 
so I dont need to make a finding of fault here. What I do need to decide is whether CMS has 
made a fair offer of redress for the trouble and upset this failing caused Mr O and Miss V, 
and Ill deal with that in due course.
Amending the SA302
The back story to this is a query from the proposed lender about what seem to be a 
significant difference between Mr Os reported net income and his net taxable income. 
Mr Os explanation for this, endorsed by his accountant, was that he had properly taken 
advantage of capital allowances to offset large equipment purchases against tax. When this 
seemingly didnt change the lenders view. Mr O arranged for his SA302 to be altered to 
forego the allowances, thus increasing his tax liability by close to £12,000. 
If Im to order CMS to compensate Mr O and Miss V for Mr Os increased tax liability, I have 
to be satisfied that CMS expressly told Mr O he must do this in order that they would have 
any prospect of getting the mortgage they were seeking. Its a key part of the complaint, and 
its where the point I made earlier about contradictory or missing evidence, and the balance 
of probabilities, comes into play. 
As the parties bringing the complaint, it falls on Mr O and Miss V to show, on the balance of 
probabilities, that its more likely than not that what they say happened did happen. That test, 
more likely than not, is critical here, because equally likely is not enough for me to find in 
their favour. 
The conversations between CMS and Mr O and Miss V werent recorded, so theres nothing 
to corroborate their evidence. Thats not to say I doubt the authenticity or integrity of what 
they have said in any way. Ive no doubt Mr O and Miss V have acted in good faith at all 
times, and their evidence genuinely reflects their recollection of events. 
But overall, I cant fairly conclude that they have passed the more likely than not test on this 
point. At best, all I can conclude that it is no more than equally likely as not that CMS 
wrongly induced Mr O into changing his SA302. That being the case, I cant fairly order CMS 
to reimburse the extra tax liability.
Cancellation of the application
Although Mr O and Miss V eventually went to another broker firm and obtained the mortgage 
they wanted, they never formally withdrew the application they made via CMS, and want to 
know how it came to be cancelled. When our investigator looked into this, neither CMS nor 
the lender could provide a definitive answer; the investigator concluded it must have been an 
unspecified administrative error. 
I appreciate this rankles with Mr O and Miss V; it just adds to their general sense of 
frustration at whet seems to them to be a lack of competence on CMS part. But in practical 
terms, theres no detriment to them that the application made through CMS was cancelled. 
They ended up buying their home with a mortgage from another lender arranged by a 
different intermediary. So the application made through CMS was destined to be abortive in 
any event.  
The advisor was rude and condescending towards Mr O, Miss V and Mr Os mother
This is always a difficult area to deal with, as these are such subjective matters. One 
persons straight-talking is anothers condescension, and one persons directness is anothers rudeness. Everyone perceives thing differently. Again, the conversations with 
CMS advisor werent recorded, so the issue of corroboration and the more likely than not 
test is a factor here too. 
We have personal testimony from Mr Os mother about a phone conversation she had with 
CMS regarding Mr Os income statements. Taken on face value, it certainly suggests some 
rather unpleasant insinuations were made that would have been quite upsetting. Mr Os 
mother isnt a complainant here, so I cant take into account how she might have reacted to 
the conversation, but Ive no doubt Mr O and Miss V will have been distressed as a result of 
what it appears CMS was insinuating. Compensation is warranted for that, and thats where I 
go next.
Putting things right
At the outset, our investigator explained to Mr O and Miss V that the element of their claim 
relating to the higher interest rate on the mortgage they eventually took out wouldnt 
succeed. This was because regardless any shortcomings or failure on CMS part, it couldnt 
be assumed that the application it submitted for them would have been accepted by the 
lender in question. The investigator was quite right to say this, and I note that Mr O and 
Miss V have accepted what she has said on this point. Meanwhile, Ive explained above why 
I shant be awarding redress for the additional tax liability Mr O incurred from amending his 
SA302. 
CMS has agreed that it should refund the two fees Mr O and Miss V paid it at the beginning 
of this process; those were a lifetime broker fee of £599 and an administration fee of £99. Its 
only right that it should do this, and Im glad to see CMS has recognised this of its own 
accord. That leaves compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Assessing fair compensation isnt an exact science either; again, it comes down to 
perception; every situation is different and everything has its own context. Theres a wide 
disparity between what CMS has offered (£300) and what Mr O and Miss V are asking for 
(£5,000). 
Even in the best-ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a complex 
transaction as a house purchase, and some degree of stress and inconvenience is to be 
expected. Taking into consideration everything that both parties have said and provided, and 
mindful of our general approach. I consider that £500 represents fair and reasonable 
compensation for all of the failings by CMS that Ive identified above.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mr O and Miss V. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they have been here. This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives 
things differently, especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent 
in a house transaction. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I 
direct Countrywide Principal Services Limited trading as Countrywide Mortgage Services to:
refund the lifetime broker fee of £599;
refund the administration fee of £99; and
pay Mr O and Miss V £500 compensation for their time, trouble and upset. 
I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Miss V 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman