DRN-3043544
The complaint
Mr P complains Just Retirement Limited (Just) wont pay him an enhanced annuity 
regarding his pension. 
What happened
Using an intermediary, Mr P used his pensions funds to purchase an annuity from Just in 
2018. When applying for the annuity, Mr P said he had dementia and provided a hospital 
letter dated 24 May 2010 to support this. Just began paying the annuity whilst it asked his 
general practitioner (GP) for a medical report. But the GP report didnt confirm a dementia 
diagnosis, and Just didnt think the further information Mr P provided did either. So Just 
rewrote the annuity to reflect that Mr P didnt have dementia, and it paid him a lower rate. 
Mr P complained to Just. He said his GP didnt know his hospital had diagnosed dementia 
and Just had unfairly reduced his annuity rate based on inadequate medical information. He 
said Just should contact his hospital for more information and pay the enhanced annuity.
Just said it had quoted Mr Ps annuity on the information hed given at application, including 
that he had dementia. And Mr Ps GP hadnt confirmed he had dementia. And while Mr P 
had provided Just with further information, this included a doctors letter dated March 2018 
which said Mr P didnt have dementia. Unhappy with this, Mr P complained to our service. 
Our investigator asked for more information. Just couldnt provide a copy of the March 2018 
letter which it said confirmed Mr P didnt have dementia. Mr P provided the May 2010 letter 
Dr C at his hospital Psychology Services sent to his GP. It said he has significant memory 
difficulties, this patient may well be suffering from some form of dementia and I feel it 
requires further assessment. And Mr P provided letters dated between 2006 and 2011 
regarding his Psychology Services referral and appointments, a 2017 memory clinic 
appointment letter, and information about his medication and how dementia is diagnosed.
To progress things, our investigator contacted Mr Ps hospital for more information. A 
consultant psychologist there confirmed Mr P had been assessed but had not been 
diagnosed with dementia. Ultimately, our investigator said Justs initial acceptance of Mr Ps 
annuity application was subject to verification. And that Just hadnt acted unfairly when it 
reduced the annuity rate, since the medical evidence showed Mr P hadnt been diagnosed 
with dementia. 
 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He felt very strongly that the May 2010 letter showed 
he had dementia and Just had accepted it as a diagnosis letter. And he provided further 
evidence from Psychology Services, including medical notes, psychological questionnaires 
and a letter dated 8 March 2012 discharging him from Psychology Services, which said My 
colleague [Dr C] who saw [Mr P] previously wondered about a cognitive or memory problem 
and referred him for memory assessment which came back in the normal range.
As Mr P disagreed with our investigator, this complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr P that Ive carefully considered all the evidence and comments Ive 
been provided with. And Im sorry to hear of his health issues, as I realise these must have a 
significant impact on him. But Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be very 
disappointing to Mr P, but Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr P wants Just to pay him higher annuity rate because he 
says hes been diagnosed with dementia. And he feels very strongly that Dr Cs May 2010 
letter shows hes been diagnosed with dementia, and that Just initially accepted this.
But I dont think the May 2010 letter amounts to a dementia diagnosis. Thats because it 
says Mr P may well be suffering from dementia and requires assessment. In other words, it 
says dementia is a possibility and Mr P should be assessed for it. So, I dont think it is a 
diagnosis. And a consultant psychologist from Mr Ps hospital has confirmed to our service 
that Mr P had been assessed, but that he wasnt diagnosed with dementia. This is supported 
by the March 2012 letter Mr P has recently provided our service with a copy of.
Mr P strongly disputes what the consultant psychologist says. But Ive not seen any other 
medical evidence to contradict what theyve said. And the 2018 GP report Just obtained 
didnt confirm that Mr P had been diagnosed with dementia either. So I dont think it was 
unfair for Just to conclude Mr P didnt have dementia and to rewrite his annuity on that basis. 
I know Mr P says Just accepted the 2010 letter as a diagnosis letter. But I dont agree thats 
the case. The quotation Just produced for Mr P says, The quotation is based on the 
information provided by you or on your behalf, and could be revised if any of this information 
is inaccurate or changes before the policy start date. 
And goes on to say, The regular income amount quoted on page 1 includes an 
enhancement based on the information about your lifestyle and medical conditions that you 
have provided to us. We will request confirmation of these details from your medical 
practitioner. If this varies from the information provided, the amount of the regular income 
may reduce or we may cancel the policy.
Just paid Mr P the enhanced annuity rate while it was confirming the medical information 
hed told it at application, and I dont think that caused Mr P any detriment. It then reduced 
the annuity rate once it had received further medical information from Mr Ps GP and Mr P 
himself, which Im satisfied was fair. So Im not asking Just to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman