DRN-2864401
The complaint
Mr W complains that a new car he took under a hire purchase agreement with RCI Financial 
Services Limited (RCI) did not meet the agreed specification. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr W entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with RCI. The 
agreement was for a new car, equipped to Mr Ws specification. 
Mr W had been in discussions with a dealership with links to RCI about his requirements. In 
the course of those discussions, he had been provided with a brochure listing some of the 
features of the model he was considering. Those features included automatic windscreen 
wipers. He placed his order, agreed the finance with RCI and took delivery of his car. 
Mr W soon identified however that the car did not, after all, have automatic wipers. It 
appears that, by the time his car had been delivered, this was no longer a standard feature 
on his particular model  although it was available as an extra and as standard on other 
models. 
Mr W complained to RCI and to the dealership. They were unable to identify an exact like-
for-like replacement car with automatic wipers but set out a number of options to try to 
resolve matters. They were:
the provision of a higher specification car at the same monthly cost, but subject to a 
contribution from Mr W to recognise the use he had had of the car;
compensation totalling £1,000;
rejection of the car and refunds of payments, but again subject to a contribution from Mr 
W for his use of the car.
Mr W did not think the offer went far enough and referred the matter to this service. One of 
our investigators considered what had happened but thought that options put forward by RCI 
and the dealership were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr W did not agree with 
the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case. In particular, 
he did not think it fair that he should make a contribution for his use of the car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W thought that his car should have been supplied with automatic 
wipers. That is what the brochure said would be included, amongst other features. He says 
too that this was an important feature for him, having had it on a previous car. And he was of 
course entitled to receive a car of the specification and with the features he ordered. 
Because his car did not meet that specification, Mr W says  understandably  that he 
should be provided with one that does. I accept however that a like-for-like replacement is 
not a realistic solution here. Even if it were possible to source the same model with 
automatic wipers, other features are unlikely to be identical. Importantly, Mr W has had some 
use of the car, and any replacement will have had a different level of use. 
RCI and the dealership recognised that Mr W did not receive exactly what he was expecting 
and so offered him a range of solutions. None was exactly what he wanted, but I need to 
determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. If the offer made is already fair and reasonable, I am unlikely to make an 
award requiring RCI to do something different. 
In my view, the solutions proposed by RCI are fair and reasonable. They each seek to put 
Mr W in broadly the position he would have been in if the car had been supplied to his 
specification or to compensate him for the fact that it does not have automatic wipers. He 
has also been given a range of options, so has not been forced to take one solution. I think it 
is for him to decide which of those options (if any) he wishes to take. 
I will comment briefly on the question of use of the car. It is in my view perfectly reasonable 
that Mr W should pay for the use he has had. Whilst the car is missing one feature, it 
remains usable and Mr W has used it. He has not suggested that there are any other 
problems with it. I see no good reason why his use to date should be free of charge. The 
basis on which RCI has indicated it will calculate the charge for use is not unreasonable. 
One of the options offered included refunds of payments under the hire purchase 
agreement. If Mr W chooses that option, it would in my view be fair to process any such 
refunds by re-working the account  that is, by backdating refunds to the date of payment. In 
that way, Mr W will also be refunded any interest he has paid. 
Otherwise, I simply leave it to Mr W to decide which, if any, of the options he wishes to 
accept and to notify RCA accordingly.     
My final decision 
My final decision is that I do not require RCI Financial Services Limited to take any further 
steps to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman