DRN-4339258
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard dealt with his 
promotional offer application.
What happened
Mr R says Barclaycard sent him a Money Transfer offer on 3 October 2022 which was valid 
until 31 October 2022. He says he made purchases with a view to applying for the offer. But 
the offer was not approved when he applied on 28 October 2022. Mr R would like the offer 
reinstated and compensation for what took place.
Barclaycard says its offer terms and conditions make clear that an application may not be 
approved or may be withdrawn which is what took place here. It says Mr R applied for the 
offer on 25 October 2022. It also says Mr R has made similar applications in the past that 
were not approved.
Mr R brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard acted in line with the offer terms and conditions and was entitled to 
decide not to approve Mr Rs application. 
Mr R doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclaycard led him to believe he had 
been approved for the offer and says when he applied, he was logged out by Barclaycard 
during the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R says he assumed that Barclaycard had made the promotional Money 
Transfer offer and that he was eligible for it. But I have looked carefully at the information he 
received and am satisfied Barclaycard made clear that a customer had to apply for the offer. 
And that the terms and conditions applied. So, I dont think Barclaycard made any guarantee 
to Mr R that he had been pre-approved and would be accepted for the offer or that he was 
guaranteed on application to be eligible.
I have looked at the offer terms and conditions and am satisfied that Barclaycard was 
entitled to decide to whom it offers the promotional offer and that its entitled to withdraw any 
offer. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly by deciding to reject Mr 
Rs application. And find it acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions. 
I have looked at Barclaycards records and can see it says Mr R has previously applied for 
similar offers which have been refused in a similar way. So, I would have expected Mr R in 
those circumstances to have been aware that any offer is subject to application with no 
guarantee of acceptance.
I appreciate Mr R says he was logged out when he applied for the offer. I dont need to 
decide what took place during the application process as its clear that Mr Rs application 
was refused which I consider the important issue.
Overall, I find that its up to Barclaycard to decide if it approves a customers application for a 
promotional offer when it exercises its commercial judgment. It follows that I cant fairly order 
it to approve Mr Rs application or pay him compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman