DRN-3500021
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited dealt with his claim against his legal 
expenses insurance policy. Reference to Amtrust includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr M has legal expenses insurance as an optional addition to 
his home insurance policy. In July 2021, Mr M made a claim against his policy. He 
wanted to issue proceedings against a utility provider in relation to its registration of 
negative information on his credit file. Amtrust instructed its panel solicitors to assess    
Mr Ms claim. 
The panel solicitors said that Mr Ms claim isnt covered by his policy. They said that the 
only possible section of the policy that could apply is the one relating to a contract 
dispute, but Mr M doesnt have a contract with the utility provider as it provides services 
under statue, not contract. The panel solicitors said that, in any event, Mr Ms claim was 
unlikely to succeed as the utility provider said that it shares information with credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr M complained to Amtrust about the poor service he received from its panel solicitors. 
Amtrust told Mr M that if he disagreed with the advice of its panel solicitors he could 
provide any new information or documentation not already provided or submit an 
assessment from a suitably qualified solicitor of his own choice. There were further 
exchanges between Mr M, Amtrust and the panel solicitors. Mr M pursued his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator said that Amtrust was entitled to rely on the advice 
of its panel solicitors.  
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that its important that we listen to the 
recordings of the phone calls he made to Amtrust which will show poor levels of service 
from the panel solicitors.  
The investigator made enquires of Amtrust about the calls. It said that there are many 
calls and it wasnt clear how the calls would show how long the panel solicitors took and 
how they handled the claim. 
The investigator considered the matter again. She thought that listening to the calls 
wouldnt change her view as Amtrust was entitled to rely on the panel solicitors opinion. 
Mr M didnt agree and thinks that this service should listen to his phone calls with 
Amtrust. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr M has strong feelings about this matter. Ive 
considered carefully all thats been said and provided and taken it all into consideration when 
making my decision. I trust that Mr M wont take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I 
think is the central issue in the case, that is, whether Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining his claim against his policy. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Amtrust has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding    
Mr Ms complaint because I dont think that Amtrust treated him unfairly. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
Amtrust appointed its panel solicitors to assess Mr Ms claim. We dont hold 
insurers responsible for the actions of panel solicitors. Thats because panel 
solicitors are independent legal experts with their own regulator and complaints 
body. But I can consider how Amtrust dealt with Mr Ms claim against his policy.
Amtrust is able to rely on the legal advice and opinions provided by a suitably 
qualified lawyer, provided that the advice and opinions are not obviously wholly 
incorrect when viewed from the perspective of a lay person. 
Ive considered the opinion provided by Amtrusts panel solicitors in this case. The 
opinion was written by a paralegal supervised by an associate solicitor and 
subsequently considered by a partner in the firm. The advice was that Mr Ms claim 
against the utility provider didnt come within the terms of his policy. The panel 
solicitors said that the only part of the policy that could potentially cover the dispute 
is the part covering contract disputes. But Mr M didnt have a contract with the 
utility provider, as it provided its services under statute, not contract. The panel 
solicitors said that, in any event, Mr Ms claim would be unlikely to succeed on its 
merits. I think that Amtrust was entitled to rely on its panel solicitors advice. So, I 
dont think that Amtrust was at fault in declining Mr Ms claim.
Mr M has complained about delay in dealing with his claim. As Ive said above, Im 
looking at whether Amtrust made errors in its handling of Mr Ms claim. Amtrust 
received Mr Ms claim on 6 July 2021. On 13 July 2021, Amtrust instructed its 
panel solicitors. 
The panel solicitors had difficulty reading some of Mr Ms handwritten documents 
and on 19 July 2021, it asked for documents in another format. Amtrust conveyed 
that in a phone call to Mr M on 21 July 2021 and he subsequently read the 
handwritten documents to Amtrust who transcribed what he said. On 23 July 2021, 
Amtrust provided the transcript to its panel solicitors. On 26 July 2021, Mr M called 
Amtrust with amendments to the transcript, which Amtrust conveyed to its panel 
solicitors. In early August 2021, there were further exchanges between the panel 
solicitors and Amtrust about the documents. The panel solicitors provided their 
advice to Mr M in a letter dated 25 August 2021. I dont think that Amtrust delayed matters unduly. Ive seen that it prompted its panel 
solicitors for a response in a timely way. It appears that there was some delay on the 
panel solicitors part as a result of illness and annual leave, but I dont think that 
Amtrust should have done anything differently in its handling of its instructions to the 
panel solicitors. 
Mr M doesnt accept the panel solicitors opinion. Amtrust has explained to Mr M that 
he could provide any new information or documentation not already provided or 
submit an assessment from a suitably qualified solicitor of his own choice and at his 
expense. If that assessment was positive, it would arrange for a barrister to give an 
opinion. I think that Amtrust acted fairly in setting out the options available to Mr M. 
 
Ive seen Amtrusts notes of its conversations with both Mr M and its panel solicitors. 
I appreciate that Mr M considers that I should listen to the recordings of his phone 
calls with Amtrust. I dont think its necessary to do so for the fair resolution of this 
complaint. Thats because it wouldnt alter the outcome here. It remains the case that 
Amtrust was entitled to rely on its panel solicitors opinion that Mr Ms claim doesnt 
come within the terms of the policy.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman