DRN-3574438
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd handled his claim on his 
motor insurance policy following the total loss of his car.
 
What happened
Mr H had a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement to buy his car. Mr H was involved 
in an accident and Accredited Insurance decided that he was at fault and that his car was a 
total loss. Accredited Insurance wanted a copy of the PCP agreement and the settlement 
figure from the PCP company. It said this was what it would pay to settle the claim, not the 
cars market value. Mr H was unhappy with this and also that he wasnt provided with a 
courtesy car, that he had to pay his policy excess, that he wasnt covered for personal 
injuries, and that he still had to pay his PCP charges despite not having the car. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Accredited Insurance had to pay a settlement to the cars owner, the PCP company. She 
thought it didnt need to pay Mr H the difference between the market value and this amount 
as that would be betterment which wasnt provided by the policy. She thought a courtesy car 
wasnt provided by the policy when there had been a total loss. She thought Mr H was 
obliged to pay his policy excess. And, because it was a fault claim, Accredited Insurance 
couldnt pursue anyone for his medical expenses beyond the policy limit. 
Mr H was unhappy with the decision about the claim settlement. He said hed lost out from 
not receiving the balance of the market value, that he had to pay four monthly PCP 
payments since the accident, and that hed not been able to buy a replacement car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the effect this event has had on Mr H and his finances. I can 
understand that he would want a fair settlement for the loss of the car. 
Mr H hasnt objected to our Investigators view rejecting most of his complaint points. Ive 
looked at what she said, and I agree that Accredited Insurance acted in accordance with the 
policys terms and conditions in regard to courtesy car provision, Mr Hs claim for personal 
injury, and having to pay the policy excess. So I wont consider these further here. 
But I can see that Mr H remains unhappy that Accredited Insurance didnt pay the cars pre-
loss market value in settlement of the claim. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably. Mr Hs policys terms and conditions state:
If the vehicle is the subject of a hire purchase or leasing agreement, we will normally make 
any payment for the total loss or destruction of the vehicle to the legal owner, whose receipt 
of our payment will be a full and final discharge of our liability.
Mr Hs car wasnt leased, it was under a PCP agreement and so it was subject to hire 
purchase. Mr H made monthly payments with a final balloon payment at the end of the 
agreement that would then make him the cars owner. This is explained in the PCP 
agreement:
3 OWNERSHIP OF THE GOODS
3.1 You will become the owner of the goods if you comply with the terms of this agreement 
and when you have paid the total amount payable under this agreement except the final 
repayment if postponed under clause 2.4 if you appoint us as your agent to sell the goods. 
Until then the goods will belong to us even though you have possession.
Mr H hadnt completed his agreement when the car was deemed a total loss. So I think the 
PCP provider was the cars legal owner. 
The PCP agreement under section 6.3.1 says that in the case of total loss then an early 
settlement balance will be due. And,
When we receive the insurance money we will set it off against the sums due under clause 
6.3.1 above. If the insurance money exceeds those sums we will refund the difference to 
you;
And I think Accredited Insurance correctly paid the early settlement figure to the PCP 
provider, which was satisfied with it.
I can see that the cars market value at the time of its loss was higher than the settlement 
figure. But I dont think this is relevant as I think Accredited Insurance acted in accordance 
with the policys terms and conditions when it paid the settlement figure to the cars owner, 
the PCP provider. And as Mr H didnt have an insurable interest in the car, then Im satisfied 
that no additional payment needs to be made to him. 
Mr H has lately raised further concerns about how Accredited Insurance has dealt with his 
claim. But I cant consider these here as Accredited Insurance hasnt had the opportunity to 
consider and respond to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman