DRN-3856142
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Affinity Insurance Solutions Limited is responsible for mishandling her 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Affinity, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees and 
others insofar as I hold Affinity responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mrs R had an older hatchback car. For the year from late November 2020 to late November 
2021, she had a motor policy with an insurance company.
Affinity acted as an intermediary between Mrs R and the insurance company. 
The policy expired in November 2021.
In early July 2022, Mrs R complained that she hadnt been made aware that her policy had 
been due for renewal - and police had towed her vehicle away because it had no insurance. 
A final response dated early July 2022 turned down the complaint. Mrs R brought her 
complaint to us in late July 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Affinity had sent through all renewal documents as would be expected.
Mrs R disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She didnt receive any of the letters or emails.
She wouldnt have known who Affinity is.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the correspondence, Im satisfied that Affinity was responsible for the administration of 
the policy. I consider that this included communications about renewal.
Affinity has sent us screenshots of the following communications to Mrs R:
In late August 2021, a letter and email to Mrs R saying that it would communicate by 
email only  unless she contacted it to ask for letters. 
In early October 2021, a letter and email to Mrs R saying that it would communicate 
by email only  unless she contacted it to ask for letters.
On 27 October 2021 an email renewal invitation.
On 18 November 2021, a further email saying that it hadnt received a response and 
couldnt renew the policy without a payment from Mrs R before the renewal date.
On 26 November 2021, a further email saying that it hadnt received payment, so it 
hadnt renewed the policy.
Mrs R hasnt said that she contacted Affinity to ask for letters instead of emails. Rather she 
has said that she didnt receive any of the letters or emails. 
However, the screenshots satisfy me that Affinity sent the above letters and emails on their 
respective dates to the correct postal and email addresses for Mrs R.
Ive seen that the renewal invitation and the later emails included the letterhead of the 
insurance company, saying that Affinity was responsible for the administration of the policy.
So Im satisfied that Affinity had done what I wouldve expected it to do. I dont hold Affinity 
responsible for the consequences of Mrs R having no motor insurance. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Affinity to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Affinity Insurance Solutions Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman