DRN-3557321
The complaint
Ms M complains about Santander UK Plc (referred to as Santander or the business) 
moving her investments to a new investment hub, without giving her notice or seeking her 
permission. 
To put things right, shed like Santander to refund the platform service fees. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes unable to say that Santander behaved unreasonably. 
In May 2016, Santander sent a letter notifying its customers about the migration and 
providing options for those who didnt want to migrate, such as transferring to an 
alternative provider or cashing in their investments. 
In July 2016, a further letter was sent notifying customers of a delay. Thereafter, a 
30-day notice was sent, notifying customers that the migration would be complete in 
November 2016. 
Santander confirmed that Ms Ms address hasnt changed since 2003. 
Given the above, hes unable to say that Santander didnt notify its customers about 
the migration. 
Santander outlined a commercial decision to transfer customers to the online 
investment hub and gave options. 
The service charges were adequately detailed in the terms and conditions of the 
service agreement. 
Ms M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
She doesnt think that her two key complaint points have been dealt with: Firstly, she 
didnt agree to the platform fees and secondly, the fund switch changed her risk 
profile from low risk  which she has been since 2013  to medium risk. 
It was only in March 2022, during a call with Santander, she was made aware that 
her investment had been transferred to the investment hub, without her knowledge or 
consent. 
Santander only made this move because it was beneficial to it, not Ms M. 
In October 2022, she received a letter from Santander explaining that her investment 
was no longer producing sufficient income and that the value of her investment at the 
time was £128,148.37 which she says was caused by Santander changing funds and 
risk profile without her consent. 
How could she have lost more than £60,000 of her savings? 
Shes depressed and frustrated with the pressure of cost of living and her investment 
isnt making any money. She hopes the matter can be sorted soon. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He made clear that the complaint about the risk profile and associated issues was 
being considered as a separate matter, and therefore not part of this complaint.   
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms M says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business did anything wrong by moving her investments to a new investment 
hub. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Ms Ms strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Ms M 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised  Ms M will be aware 
that the complaint relating to risk is being considered separately. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Ms M, and Santander, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms M says, I think its more likely 
(than not) that in 2016 she was sent letters, in good time, notifying her of the changes and 
migration of her investments to the investment hub. 
Im satisfied that the letters were sent to the address held on file, therefore they were likely to 
have been delivered. Im aware Santander says that Ms Ms address hasnt changed since 
2003 and Ive seen copies of the template and letters Santander says were sent.  
Its possible that there was an issue with the post leading to letters not being delivered, 
although Ive seen no evidence that there was. Even if there was a postal issue, its not 
something I can blame the business for. Santander isnt responsible for the actions of a 
third-party postal service. 
The above notwithstanding, I think its unlikely that Ms M wouldnt have received at least one 
of the three notifications sent to her address. She probably received the letter(s) but didnt 
read them, and thats why the migration was a surprise to her. 
I note that Ms M is very unhappy about the changes brought in by Santander without her 
consent, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that it was wrong to do this.I should make clear that despite what Ms M says, Santander wasnt obliged to continue to 
operate its account in the way that it had, since it was set up. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Ms M was given any guarantees that it would. 
As a financial business, Santander is within its rights to do things differently, rather than 
continue with what Ms M was used to and happy with. Its not for us to tell Santander how to 
run its business. Despite what Ms M might think, this doesnt mean Santander was in breach 
of its agreement with her or that it treated her unfairly. 
Given the nature of the changes, Santander was obliged to notify Ms M, which Im satisfied it 
did in good time  as mentioned above. Santander also didnt need her consent before 
moving the investment, so hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. If Ms M was 
unhappy about the changes, she had the option to transfer to another business or cash in 
her investment rather than continue with Santander. 
I appreciate Ms M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what she says, 
Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman