DRN-4395294
The complaint
Mr D has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund transactions he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
What happened
Over the course of several days, Mr Ds TSB mobile app was used to send around £2,900 
worth of bank transfers.
Mr D says this wasnt him. He explained his phone was stolen on a night out. He didnt keep 
a record of his security details or share them with anyone. Mr D thought the thief mightve 
watched him enter his phones passcode before stealing the phone, and he said hed set his 
online banking password to be the same as the phones passcode. He had not received any 
suspicious communications, clicked any suspicious links, or downloaded any new apps 
recently.
TSB held Mr D liable for the payments in dispute. He came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that the payments had also used Mr Ds secondary security details, not just his 
password, and they didnt see a likely way someone had learned that without his consent. 
And theyd been made from Mr Ds usual IP addresses.
Mr D appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, TSB can hold Mr D liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised them.
Im satisfied from TSBs technical evidence that the payments in dispute were made on 
Mr Ds genuine mobile app, on his registered device, using his login details and security 
details. I can see that these transactions were properly authenticated. The question, then, is 
whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr D consented to the payments or not.
Its possible that a thief couldve watched Mr D enter his phones passcode, then apparently 
used the same passcode to log in to his TSB app. However, the payments also used Mr Ds 
secondary security details, which were different to his passcode. And Mr D was clear that he 
didnt tell anyone his security details nor record them anywhere. Theres no evidence of any 
unauthorised access, hacking, or security being bypassed, and from what Mr D told us there 
doesnt seem to be a likely way he couldve been hacked. As I said above, Im satisfied that 
these payments were properly authenticated.
On that basis, theres not a likely or plausible way that someone had Mr Ds secondary 
security details without his consent. That would mean these payments were most likely 
authorised, and so TSB do not need to refund them. This possibility is also supported by the 
fact that the disputed payments were made from IP addresses which Mr D also used for his 
genuine online banking activity before and after, suggesting that the person who made the 
payments was accessing Mr Ds phone from the same locations he normally used it in. It 
also looks like Mr D used the same mobile phone for genuine online activity after it was 
supposed to have been stolen.
I appreciate why Mr D would like to see CCTV footage. Such footage is only kept for about a 
month as standard, so itll be too late for that. But its also not really relevant here. These 
payments were made online, not at a physical cash machine or shop. And camera footage 
would only show what the person making the transactions looked like. It would not have 
shown whether they had Mr Ds permission or not. And as I explained above, based on the 
evidence its not likely or plausible that the payments were made without Mr Ds consent.
I also appreciate that Mr D would have liked TSB to stop these payments at the time. As 
they were made on Mr Ds device, at his usual IP addresses, using his correct login details 
and security details, it wouldve looked like it was Mr D making the payments himself. I dont 
see that TSB needed to stop them at the time.
Lastly, Mr D complained about TSBs customer service and them blocking his account. It 
was correct for TSB to block the account when he reported the fraud, as Mr D had told them 
that a fraudster had full access to it, so TSB needed to block and secure the account. I can 
see it was blocked for a week, which was not unreasonable here. And having looked at 
Mr Ds contact with TSB and listened to relevant calls, Ive not found that they mishandled 
things overall or dealt with him inappropriately. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Ds genuine phone, app, login details, and security details 
were used. Based on the evidence, its not likely or plausible that the payments couldve 
been made without Mr Ds consent. That means TSB can decline a refund in this case. This 
is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr D to receive. 
But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman