DRN-3594445
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled their subsidence 
claim poorly. 
What happened
In the summer of 2018 Mr and Mrs S made a subsidence claim on their RSA property 
insurance policy. The insurer arranged monitoring of the property. In 2019 vegetation was 
then removed to mitigate the movement. Repair works began in the summer of 2021 and 
completed by the autumn of that year. 
Before then Mr and Mrs S had become frustrated at the progress of the claim. They 
complained to RSA. It responded in September 2021. It accepted Mr and Mrs S had 
experienced avoidable delays. It apologised and paid them £1,250 compensation in 
recognition. 
In June 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She agreed that RSA had caused 
unnecessary delay. But she was of the opinion the compensation already offered was 
enough to recognise the impact on Mr and Mrs S. So she didnt recommend RSA pay 
anything more or do anything differently. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept it was enough, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs S or RSA provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
In addition Im not going to set out the timeline of events here. Our investigator did a 
reasonable job of that in her assessment. Subsidence claims, by their nature, often take a 
long time to be resolved. But I agree that in this case RSA caused a significant amount of 
unnecessary delay. Im not going to set out in detail every unnecessary delay caused by 
RSA or its contractors. I dont feel doing so would add much value. Mr and Mrs S and RSA 
are already aware of the delays involved. In summary I can RSAs failure to efficiently 
progress the claim from mitigation to repairs extended an already stressful claim, for 
Mr and Mrs S, by many months. 
Mr and Mrs S have outlined the impact on them - including additional trips to the property 
from their home, days off work, hours spent chasing the claim for progress and so on. I 
accept its likely, as well as these inconveniences, RSAs mistakes caused them additional 
and unnecessary distress over many months. 
However, I agree with our investigator that RSAs already done enough to recognise the 
impact of what went wrong  including additional travel or other costs. Its important to note 
they werent living in the property during the claim, so didnt experience the inconvenience of 
extended disruption to their own home. And I cant award them compensation for distress or 
inconvenience experienced by others, such as the propertys residents, not named on the 
policy. 
So whilst having sympathy for Mr and Mrs S experience I wont be requiring RSA to pay any 
additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman