DRN-3135373
The complaint
Ms R complains about the charges that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA), applied when she 
handed back a car she had acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In February 2017, Ms R entered into a hire purchase agreement with PSA to acquire a used 
car that was first registered in the UK in November 2014. The cash price of the car was 
around £8,895. The agreement was set for a duration of 38 months. And the car mileage on 
delivery was approximately 18,959 miles.
On 27 May 2020, Ms R handed back the car, and it was inspected at the auction on 17 
August 2020. In the report it was noted that Ms R needs to pay £1,375.78 for damages to 
the car and missing items. PSA felt that the damage to the car was outside of fair wear and 
tear. Ms R disagreed as she didnt think the charges were fair.
In October 2020, PSA wrote to Ms R. In this correspondence they said that she was 
overcharged, so they reduced her bill by £500. They said this was based on the fact that she 
confirmed to them that only one service was completed during the three-year duration. 
Regarding the other charges for damage and missing items, PSA concluded that those were 
applied fairly.  
Ms R was still unhappy with PSA, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought that PSA should further 
reduce Ms Rs bill to £675.78 to reflect only one missed service instead of two. But he 
thought the remainder of the charges have been applied fairly.
PSA agreed with the investigator, but Ms R disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the complaint. But I want to assure both 
parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues to reach a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ms R acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Ms Rs agreement with 
PSA sets out that she needs to keep and maintain the car in a good state of repair and 
condition. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here,
the relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade 
body the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). The BVRLA guidance is 
generally intended for new cars that have been returned at the end of their first finance 
agreement, so its used mainly to consider damage to cars that are a few years old. But it 
can also be used for older cars, where the age of a car and the number of miles it has 
covered are taken into account, and when considering what would be deemed fair wear and 
tear. Ive also considered that the BVRLA guidance is just that - guidance. While I take it into 
consideration, I also need to take into consideration whats fair and reasonable in the 
situation here. So, I think its fair that any damage is assessed by considering whether its 
reasonable to expect this type of damage, given the cars age, and its mileage.
The car was around three years old, when Ms R acquired it. It had travelled approximately 
18,959 miles and had a cash price of around £8,895, which I think, most likely, was 
consistent with a car in a good condition. When Ms R handed back the car in May 2020, it 
was approximately six years old and had travelled around 34,782 miles. So, Ive taken all of 
this into consideration when reviewing the initial inspection report, which was done when the 
car was collected, and the inspection report that was completed by the auction house later 
on. And in deciding whether PSA have acted fairly in relation to each charge, Ive taken into 
consideration the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, BVRLAs guidelines, 
as well as the age and mileage of the car when it was returned. 
Front bumper
The BVRLA guidance sets out that surface scratches of 25mm or less, where the primer or 
bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out, and provided 
that there are a maximum of up to four surface scratches on one panel. The picture of the 
front of the car provided by Ms R, doesnt allow me to see the same angle and zoom as 
accessed by the pictures taken at the auction. So, based on Ms Rs pictures Im unable to 
see the affected area clearly. But based on the pictures taken from by the auction, I can see 
that there are multiple scratches (significantly more than 4) on the corner of the front 
bumper. So, I consider these to be representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and 
tear. 
The BVRLA guidance sets out that mouldings or trims should not be broken, cracked, or 
deformed. Once again, I cant examine this part of the car from the pictures provided by 
Ms R as they dont provide the same angle, but from the pictures taken by the auction I can 
see that the front bumper is misaligned. So, I think this too is damage that is outside of fair 
wear and tear.
Left-hand front tyre   
The BVRLA guidance sets out that there must be no damage to the sidewall or tread. From 
the pictures provided in the auction inspection report, I can see that there is damage to the 
sidewall of the tyre which looks like a cut. When zooming in on the pictures provided by 
Ms R, I can see what most likely appears to be the same cut. So, this is damage which I 
consider to be representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear.I think most likely all three of the listed above damages are more than fair wear and tear 
considering the circumstances. So, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for PSA to charge for 
these damages a total of £192 (the bumper damage: £48+£50 and the tire damage: £94). 
And the actual charge itself doesnt seem unreasonable.  
Ms R said she didnt hand the car back with the damage that was outside of fair wear and 
tear. She feels that the damage must have been done after the car was collected due to the 
length of time before the inspection was done by the auction house. Also, she said that 
shortly before the car was collected, she had a full service completed, and the car had been 
to a body shop. 
Ill never know exactly when the damage was caused, so I reach my conclusion on the 
balance of probabilities. That being when did the damage to the car in question most likely 
happened? Was it before or after the car was collected? So, Ive considered that Ms R is 
adamant that the damage wasnt there before the car got collected, but Ive also considered 
that Ms R travelled a total of around 15,823 miles in the car and had it for about three years, 
compared with the time the car was at the auction house - two months and three weeks. So 
considering everything, I dont feel I can say that, most likely, the car was damaged after it 
was collected considering the time, the miles the car travelled, and considering that Ive not 
been given sufficient evidence to show otherwise. 
I acknowledge the initial inspection, which was completed when the car was picked up, 
doesnt highlight any specific damage. However, this was an initial inspection which was not 
as detailed and thorough as the one later completed by the auction house. There is no 
pictures for this inspection, and not all the fields of the form have been completed; such as 
for example the amount of miles the car had registered on the odometer. So, I think the initial 
inspection couldve been done better, but it doesnt automatically mean that the damage 
wasnt present or that the missing items were in the car. Hence, I dont think PSA is acting 
unreasonably by saying that Ms R is responsible for the damage to the car that is outside of 
fair wear and tear, as reported on the inspection report done by the auction house.
Also, I understand that Ms R is unhappy that it took PSA approximately two months and 
three weeks to do a full car inspection. But due to the government guidelines around Covid-
19 I dont think it was unfair for PSA, and businesses operating on their behalf, such as the 
auction house, to adapt their ways of working to the pandemic. I know it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for everyone, with a lot of businesses experiencing delays. 
So, I cant say that the time taken to inspect the car was unreasonable, considering the 
specific circumstances of this case.
Missing items
PSA are charging Ms R for the following missing items:
- Compressor (£140); 
- Puncture repair kit (£43.78); and
- V5c (£100).
Ms R said that she returned the V5c document. But the initial inspection report noted that the 
V5c document was missing, and Ive not been provided with any evidence that would allow 
me to say that most likely the V5c document was returned. So, I think it was fair for PSA to 
charge Ms R the £100 for this missing item. 
The other two items that were missing were the compressor and the puncture repair kit. 
Ms R says that she has never used either of these two items, and that she would have no 
idea what or where these were in the car. She also said that the initial damage inspection didnt note these items as missing. But the initial damage inspection doesnt mention these 
items, and it doesnt have a specific field on the form for verifying whether these items are 
missing or not. So, I think most likely these were not checked if they are missing or not until 
the full inspection was completed by the auction house. 
In addition, considering that these items form part of the standard equipment for this car 
model, I think most likely the supplying dealer made sure that they were included at the time 
Ms R took possession of the car. And Ms Rs finance agreement states that she should only 
accept the delivery of the car if it is satisfactory, and if the car doesnt meet specifications or 
is unsatisfactory, she should notify PSA immediately. So, I think it was Ms Rs responsibility 
to make sure that she received these items when she took possession of the car, and Ive 
not been presented with any evidence that allows me to conclude that these were not in the 
car when she took delivery of it. Hence its fair for PSA to charge her for these two missing 
items.
PSA also initially charged Ms R £100 for a missing key, but they have since reduced the 
total amount owing by this amount. I think this is fair as the initial inspection report noted that 
two keys were returned.  
Missing service history
PSA initially wanted to charge Ms P £800 for a missing service history. This amount was 
£200 for every missed service. They later reduced this to £400 because they said that she 
missed two services. Ms R had the car for three years, so she needed to complete three 
annual services during this time. PSA said that Ms R only completed one service during this 
time because, they said, that when she logged her complaint, she told them only one service 
had been done, but they are unable to provide us a copy of this call. Ms R disputes this and 
told us that she had completed two services and provided a copy of the receipt for one of the 
services, which was completed in March 2020. She said the other service was completed 
after she had the car for about a year and she provided us details of the garage that did the 
service, but she now doesnt have evidence of this as this has been some time ago  which I 
dont think is unreasonable considering the amount of time that has passed.
Ms R is also adamant that the proof of the two services completed was evident on the 
service history which she said was returned with the car when it was collected. So I now 
have to decide on balance of probability whether Ms R completed two or one services during 
the three years she had the car. I think, based on Ms R testimony, including the detail she 
has provided about where the service was done, and without any evidence to the contrary, I 
think most likely she did complete two services. And even if Im not right on this issue  
which I think I am  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable now to charge Ms R for two 
missing services. The reason for this is because the service history is now missing, but I can 
see that the initial inspection report when the car was collected did note that it was returned 
with the car. So, this evidence would show how many services were completed, had it not 
been lost while the car was in PSAs possession. Hence, overall, Im satisfied that PSA 
should only charge Ms R for one missing service, which I also understand that PSA is no 
longer disputing as they agreed with the investigators assessment of Ms Rs complaint. 
While I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms R, looking at all the 
evidence available to me, I think on balance, its fair and reasonable for PSA to charge her a 
total of £675.78 for the two missing items, one not completed service, and the damage listed 
on the auction house inspection report. So, Im only directing PSA to remove the one £200 
charge for the annual car service.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint and direct 
PSA Finance UK Limited to:
- To reduce the outstanding amount due from £875.78 to £675.78. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman