DRN-3952444
The complaint
Mr M complains about delays when he re-mortgaged his buy to let property with Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires). He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr M applied to re-mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. The terms of the mortgage product 
he chose said that Birmingham Midshires would arrange any legal work required for the re-
mortgage and pay the basic conveyancing costs. 
Mr M wanted the re-mortgage to complete on 1 June 2022, the day after his mortgage 
product expired. There was a delay and the re-mortgage completed on 10 June 2022. 
During this time, Mr Ms mortgage was on his lenders standard variable rate. The solicitor 
instructed by Birmingham Midshires offered Mr M compensation for the additional interest.
Our investigator said Birmingham Midshires wasnt responsible for the delay, which was 
caused by an incorrect redemption statement for Mr Ms previous mortgage. Our investigator 
said Birmingham Midshires had appointed a suitably qualified solicitor to carry out the legal 
work, and it was right to refer Mr M to the solicitor when he made a complaint.
Mr M said his complaint is about how Birmingham Midshires responded to his complaint. He 
says it was wrong to pass it back to the solicitor. Mr M said he was seeking compensation 
for breach of the contract he has with Birmingham Midshires. He said Birmingham Midshires 
appointed the solicitor and should pay compensation for the failure in its service and re-
mortgage processes, and the stress caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is unhappy that completion of his re-mortgage was delayed. And that when he 
complained Birmingham Midshires referred him to the solicitor, instead of taking 
responsibility itself. 
Birmingham Midshires issued a mortgage offer in March 2022. From this point, the solicitors 
needed to undertake the necessary legal work to complete the re-mortgage.
Mr M told the solicitors he wanted the re-mortgage to complete on 1 June 2022. He 
contacted the solicitors in mid-May 2022 to ask for a copy of the redemption statement and 
completion statement, as he wanted to check what fees were being charged to him. 
The redemption statement provided by Mr Ms previous lender (dated 25 May 2022) was 
dated for redemption in May 2022 and included an early repayment charge. The solicitors 
requested a new redemption statement. This was issued on 8 June 2022 and the re-
mortgage completed on 10 June 2022. 
The solicitors paid compensation for the additional interest Mr M incurred during the delay. I 
cant comment on whether the compensation paid by the solicitors was fair  thats a matter 
better dealt with by the legal ombudsman. 
Mr M raised a complaint with Birmingham Midshires, asking for additional compensation for 
the stress and inconvenience caused by the delay. Birmingham Midshires told Mr M that he 
could take the matter to the legal ombudsman if he wasnt happy with the solicitors 
response.
What I can consider is whether Birmingham Midshires made an error and whether its fair 
and reasonable to require it to pay compensation.
Birmingham Midshires had to appoint a suitably qualified person to carry out the legal work, 
and I think it did this. I havent seen any evidence that Birmingham Midshires made an error, 
or that it was responsible for the delay in Mr Ms re-mortgage completing. 
I need to take into account that this is a buy to let mortgage, and letting property is a 
business. I think its reasonable, when running a business, to expect to encounter problems 
from time to time and experience some inconvenience. Mr M was re-mortgaging a property 
he already owned. I cant see that the short delay in completing the re-mortgage could have 
caused any significant inconvenience to Mr M  it didnt for instance cause problems with a 
property sale and purchase chain or needing to organise a house move. Mr M isnt out of 
pocket as the solicitors offered compensation for the additional interest costs during the 
delay. And, as I said, theres no evidence that Birmingham Midshires made an error or 
caused the delay. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Birmingham Midshires to 
pay compensation to Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman