DRN-2608999
The complaint
Mr P complains about eleven loans that he took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending 
Stream, (LS), which he said were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on 
Mr Ps behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all 
actions being taken by Mr P.
  
What happened
Mr P was given 11 instalment loans by LS from June 2011 to August 2015. All the loans 
were repayable by six monthly instalments and all have been repaid. 
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr P is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount 
1. 27/6/11 2/12/11 £350
2. 21/8/12 25/1/13 £535
3. 4/12/12 17/5/13 £210
4. 11/2/13 14/6/13 £280
5. 14/4/13 14/6/13 £150
6. 24/6/13 9/8/13 £200
7. 12/9/14 21/2/15 £660
8. 27/12/14 9/2/15 £540
9. 24/4/15 2/10/15 £770
10. 14/7/15 2/10/15 £330
11. 26/8/15 8/10/15 £610
Mr P said that he had a gambling addiction and he was gambling big amounts of money 
nearly every day for a number of years. He was using payday loans to fund his gambling 
addiction. He stopped gambling in 2013 but he is still dealing with the debt that he got into 
when he was a heavy gambler. He had to continue borrowing from LS as he was still in a lot 
of debt and needed to pay his debts and his essential bills. He was borrowing from two to 
three payday lenders each week to fund his gambling. This has caused him a lot of stress 
and worry.
LSs final response letter said that it had asked Mr P for his income and his costs for items 
like rent, utilities, food, transport, and dependent care. It checked what Mr P had told it with 
statistical information. If required, it adjusted Mr Ps expenses upward and used the new 
figures in its calculations. LS said that it also asked Mr P for his expenses for other loans 
and credit agreements and it checked this information with an independent credit
reference agency. It also adjusted these expenses upward where required and used the
new figures in its calculations. LS said that the money that Mr P had available after his 
expenses were subtracted from his income was more than the amount needed to pay it each 
month and would still have left him with some money to spend on other things. This meant 
that the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He noted there were 
three chains of lending due to significant gaps in lending between Loans 1 and 2
and Loans 6 and 7. For the later loans, he thought the lender shouldve taken steps to build 
a more detailed picture of Mr Ps financial situation. But he hadnt seen anything in the 
information provided which suggested the lender wouldve known that Mr P wouldnt have 
been able to sustainably make the repayments he needed to for these loans. And overall, 
the adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr P took, the amounts they were for or 
the period of time he was borrowing meant Mr Ps loan history, on its own, shouldve shown
LS he mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to LS on 18 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id said that I was sorry to hear that Mr Ps borrowing had caused him a lot of stress and 
worry.
Id noted that when LS lent Loans 1 to 6 to Mr P the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). 
The ILG contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
When LS lent Loans 7 to 11 to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The ILG and CONC contained similar guidance for lenders about responsible lending. LS 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly 
and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors included:
  the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable. 
I thought that it was important for me to say that LS was required to establish whether Mr P 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ps complaint. 
As Id said above, Mr Ps loans were repayable by six monthly instalments. So, the amounts 
that Mr P needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. 
But he was also committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. In 
addition, Mr P sometimes had a number of loans outstanding at the same time. So, Id 
considered the total amount that Mr P needed to repay to LS each month. 
LS did a number of checks before it lent to Mr P. I could see that it had asked Mr P for 
details of his monthly income and expenditure and it had carried out credit checks. 
Id seen brief results from LSs credit checks. I could see there were defaults that were at 
least three years old and delinquent accounts that had occurred at least 30 months 
previously. But I didnt think they should have caused the lender additional concerns in view 
of their age. And I didnt think it was unreasonable for LS to be more interested in Mr Ps 
more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the loans were affordable.
Wed received Mr Ps credit report which contained entries relevant to Loans 8 onwards and 
Id referred to these in my provisional decision.
LS had told us about the checks it did before lending Loan 1 to Mr P. It asked for his income 
which hed declared as £1,400 and his expenses. On LSs application form and its 
loan/credit data sheet Mr Ps expenses were shown as £1,120. There was a lower expenses 
figure shown in the schedule on LSs final response letter for Loan 1. The schedule on the 
final response letter also didnt show the highest loan repayment amount. There were also 
differences between the figures shown on the final response letter and the application form 
and loan/credit data sheet for most of Mr Ps other loans. So, Id mostly used the expense figures shown in the loan applications and the loan/credit data sheet (where these were 
higher) and the loan repayment amounts shown in the loan agreements in my decision. 
Id noted that for Loan 1, Mr P needed to make six monthly repayments and the highest 
monthly repayment was around £175.  
I could see that the repayments that Mr P needed to make on Loan 1 were relatively 
moderate compared to the income that hed declared to LS. I didnt think the repayment 
amounts for Loan 1 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr P financial 
difficulty. So, given Mr Ps repayment amounts for Loan 1 and that this was his first loan with 
LS, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to have asked him for the amount of 
information that would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable. And at 
that stage, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr P was 
saying. So, I didnt think LS was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mr P.
After Mr P repaid Loan 1, there was then a gap of around eight months before hed asked to 
borrow again. I thought that gap was long enough to give LS some confidence that Mr P had 
overcome whatever problems had caused him to borrow in the past. So, Id thought LS was 
entitled to treat Mr P as a new customer when he asked for Loan 2 and based its checks 
accordingly.
I could see that Mr P had asked for a loan of £740. But LS had provided a loan of £535. So, 
it appeared that LS had concerns about Mr Ps creditworthiness. Id noted that Mr Ps 
declared income had reduced to £1,320 and his declared expenses were £1,010.
Id also noted that Mr P needed to make a highest monthly repayment of around £268 for    
Loan 2.  Looking at Mr Ps financial situation, I didnt think he would have had enough 
disposable income to meet some of the repayments on Loan 2 in a sustainable way. He 
would only have had a small amount of money left for unforeseen expenses. So, I didnt 
think it was reasonable for LS to have given Loan 2 to Mr P. 
Loan 2 was still outstanding when Mr P took out Loan 3. The highest total monthly 
repayment for both loans was around £244. I could again see that after repaying some of the 
loan repayments, Mr P would have been left with very little disposable income to meet any 
unexpected expenses. So, I didnt think a responsible lender would have considered Loan 3 
a sustainable loan. 
Mr P applied for Loan 4 whilst Loan 3 was outstanding. His declared expenses had reduced 
so he had more disposable income. But Loan 4 was Mr Ps third loan in almost six months 
without any break in his borrowing. And the loan amount was £70 higher than his previous 
loan. So, Id thought all this suggested that LS could no longer safely rely on the information 
Mr P had provided about his financial situation. And Id thought this might have prompted the 
lender to supplement the information it held by gathering information about Mr Ps borrowing 
from other short-term lenders. As far as I could see it didnt do this. 
Wed asked Mr P for copies of his bank statements so we could see what better checks 
would have suggested. He didnt provide these to us. So, I wasnt able to say that better 
checks would have suggested to LS that it shouldnt have lent Loan 4 to Mr P.
And by the time of Loans 5 and 6, Id thought LS should have been looking to build a clearer 
picture about Mr Ps finances before lending to him again. By the time of Loan 5 hed been 
borrowing from LS for almost eight months without any break and by the time of Loan 6, hed 
been borrowing from LS for almost ten months with only a break of ten days. When a 
consumer had been borrowing short term loans with hardly any breaks over a number of 
months, Id thought this showed that the loans werent being used in the way that they were intended to be used. It should have concerned LS that Mr P wasnt using these loans to 
meet a one-off shortfall in his income but rather it was likely he needed to borrow to meet an 
ongoing need.
As Id said above, wed asked Mr P for copies of his bank statements so we could see what 
better checks would have suggested. He didnt provide these to us. So, I wasnt able to say 
that better checks would have suggested to LS that it shouldnt have lent Loans 5 and 6 to 
Mr P. 
There was then a gap of around 13 months before Mr P asked to borrow again. Id thought 
that gap was long enough to give LS some confidence that Mr P had overcome whatever 
problems had caused him to borrow in the past. So, Id thought LS was entitled to treat Mr P 
as a new customer when hed asked for Loan 7 and based its checks accordingly.
I could see that Mr P had asked for a loan of £660. This was his highest loan so far. Mr Ps 
declared income had increased to £1,440 and his declared expenses were substantially 
lower than previously. But Id also noted that the highest monthly repayment was a 
significant proportion of Mr Ps income. Id thought this might have caused LS some 
concerns and might have prompted the lender to have supplemented the information it held 
by gathering information about Mr Ps borrowing from other short-term lenders. As far as I 
could see it didnt do this. 
As Id said above, we had asked Mr P for copies of his bank statements so we could see 
what better checks would have suggested. He didnt provide these to us. So, I wasnt able to 
say that better checks would have suggested to LS that it shouldnt have lent Loan 7 to Mr P.
Loan 7 was still outstanding when Mr P applied for Loan 8. The highest total monthly 
repayment for both loans was around £406 which was again a significant proportion of his 
declared income. Id thought this might again have prompted the lender to have 
supplemented the information it held by gathering information about Mr Ps borrowing from 
other short-term lenders.
Id looked at Mr Ps credit report to see what better checks would have suggested. In 
addition to his outstanding loan with LS, Mr P also had two short term loans outstanding with 
other lenders. Id thought these three outstanding short-term loans might have suggested to 
LS that Mr Ps finances were under pressure and that he was having difficulties managing 
his money.  As such there was a real risk that Mr P wasnt going to be able to sustainably 
repay Loan 8. So as a responsible lender, I didnt think LS should have given Loan 8 to      
Mr P. 
Loan 9 was Mr Ps highest loan amount yet. I could see that Mr P had asked for a loan of 
£1,000. But LS had provided a loan of £770. So, it appeared that LS had concerns about    
Mr Ps creditworthiness. LS would have been aware that Mr P had repaid Loan 7 a day late 
and hed repaid Loan 8 early. These actions might have suggested that Mr P was having 
difficulties managing his money. The highest monthly repayment was again a significant 
proportion of Mr Ps income. Id thought the increasing amount of Mr Ps borrowing was such 
that it wasnt reasonable for LS to have relied on the information provided by Mr P by the 
time of Loan 9. And Id thought it should have taken steps at that time to have independently 
verified Mr Ps true financial position. 
Id reviewed Mr Ps credit report to see what better checks would have suggested. I could 
see that Mr P had taken out two short term loans totalling around £2,460 the previous month 
from other high cost credit lenders. Id thought these loans might again have suggested to 
LS that Mr P was facing problems managing his money and unlikely to be able to repay 
Loan 9 in a sustainable manner. So, I didnt think LS should have given Loan 9 to Mr P. And for similar reasons as Id set out above for Loan 9, Id thought it would have again been 
proportionate for LS to have independently reviewed the true state of Mr Ps finances before 
Loans 10 and 11. If it had carried out better checks, Id thought these would have suggested 
that Mr Ps situation wasnt improving. Id seen this on Mr Ps credit report. Id thought if LS 
had made proportionate checks, these would have suggested that Mr P was still facing 
significant problems managing his money and unlikely to have been able to repay Loans 10 
and 11 in a sustainable manner. And as a responsible lender it wouldnt have agreed to lend 
Loans 10 and 11 to him.
Id noted that LS had said that the money that Mr P had available after his expenses were 
subtracted from his income was more than the amount needed to pay it each month and 
would still have left him with some money to spend on other things. But LS was required to 
establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And LS would have  
known from previous decisions (as well as what was set out on our website) that there were 
cases where this service considered the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability 
of each loan. 
When a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most likely 
that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow 
problems. As LS would have known, the FCA made it clear in a letter to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or LS my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order LS to put things right as  
shown below. 
Id also said that if Mr P could provide his bank statements from around the time of Loans 4 
to 7 in his response to this provisional decision, I would reconsider my decision in relation to 
those loans.
In deciding what redress LS should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might have 
happened had it not lent Loans 2 and 3 to Mr P and had it stopped lending to Mr P from 
Loan 8 as I was satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there were a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Mr P and this particular lender which he might not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, he might have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt 
think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I wasnt persuaded it would have been fair or 
reasonable to have concluded that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, Id said that it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LSs liability in this case for 
what I was satisfied it had done wrong and should put right.
putting things right  what LS needs to do
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr P paid for Loans 2, 3 and 8 to 11; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the    
dates of settlement; and
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 2, 3 and 8 to 11 from Mr Ps credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Neither LS nor Mr P have provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr P and LS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the 
complaint and require LS to pay Mr P some compensation and take the steps set out below.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to:
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr P paid for Loans 2, 3 and 8 to 11; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the    
dates of settlement; and
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 2, 3 and 8 to 11 from Mr Ps credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman