DRN-3926755
The complaint
Mr B complains Phoenix Life Limited wont allow him to reduce his retirement age or transfer 
his pension plan to another provider without penalty. 
What happened
Mr B has two pension plans originally sold by a tied adviser from Abbey Life. A personal 
pension (plan number ending **18Y) was started in 1991, and in 1997 a unit-linked 
Freestanding Additional Voluntary Contribution plan (FSAVC) which Abbey called an 
Additional Pension for Employees (plan number ending **57P), initially with net monthly 
contributions of £80. Both plans had a proposed retirement age of Mr Bs 50th birthday in 
2012 (which was permitted at the time, as the minimum age rose to 55 in 2010). 
In 2016 Abbey Life was acquired by Phoenix Life Limited, so Phoenix is responsible for 
answering the complaint. For ease of reading Ill mainly refer to Phoenix in the decision.
Over the life of his plans Mr B decreased, paused and increased contributions depending on 
his circumstances. In January 2006 Mr B wrote to Phoenix instructing them to increase the 
retirement age of his plans to 65 (which would be 2027). And after April when the pension 
rules changed, he wanted to integrate the plans to minimise charges, but cease 
contributions to both plans. Phoenix amended the retirement age of his plans to 65, but it 
didnt amalgamate the plans, or stop his contributions, which Mr B subsequently became 
aware of.
 
In November 2021 Mr B enquired about transferring both plans to a new provider, at which 
point he found out because he hadnt yet reached the plans retirement age, hed lose his 
entitlement to a final bonus, and that an exit penalty would apply. So in December 2021 Mr B 
complained that Phoenix hadnt carried out his 2006 instructions in full, nor had it explained 
the implications of increasing his retirement age. He said other companies had allowed him 
to bring his retirement date forward with no exit penalty or loss of bonus. He also complained 
that Phoenix sent more than one letter to answer his queries. 
In response Phoenix explained that when Mr Bs retirement age was raised to 65 it had 
made an adjustment to his policies, so that additional units were added to both plans 
(210.985 units valued at around £1,047 were added to the FSAVC plan). It said the policy 
terms made clear a bonus is only applied at retirement if full contributions are maintained, 
whereas Mr B had paused between 1998 and 2001 while contributing to his employers 
scheme. It confirmed charges applied for the life of the policy, so an adjustment will be made 
to reflect this for early withdrawal, but charges were now capped at 1% of the fund value. 
Finally it was sorry for the inconvenience, but it was sometimes necessary to issue more 
than one response to an enquiry.
In subsequent correspondence Phoenix clarified the personal pension had been made paid 
up in 2000. Mr B had continued to contribute to the FSAVC plan, but had contributions 
stopped, the charges would have increased, and hed have lost any bonus entitlement as 
hed have contributed for less than ten years. 
In April 2022 Mr B referred his complaint to this service, saying he thought Phoenix should 
waive any charges for transferring to another provider, and enable him to retire at the age of 
his choosing without penalty.
Phoenix didnt consent to our involvement, saying Mr B had complained too late, being more 
than six years since his request in 2006, and more than three years since hed have been 
aware his instructions werent carried out. 
One of our investigators said Mr B had complained too late about Phoenix not stopping his 
contributions. But he thought we could look into Mr Bs concern about the bonus not being 
what he expected. The investigator explained Mr Bs decision to increase his retirement age 
meant his funds were invested for longer, and under the policy terms he became liable for an 
additional 15 years of charges which would need to be paid regardless of when he retired. 
And was Mr Bs contribution history rather than his retirement age which led to his reduced 
bonus entitlement. He said Phoenix wasnt obliged to advise Mr B, the information it 
provided made things reasonably clear to enable him to make an informed decision, and it 
looked like Phoenix had acted in line with the policy terms. So he didnt think Phoenix had 
done anything wrong. 
Mr B said hed been aware his contributions had continued, so he wasnt complaining about 
that. But Phoenixs complaint response in 2021 had provided much more detail than its 2006 
letter confirming the changes to his policy. And an extract from another Phoenix document 
hed relied on suggested that as long as hed made 20 years of contributions he could retire 
when he liked. Mr B didnt think hed been given enough information to make an informed 
choice in 2006, and still had unanswered questions about why retiring before his chosen 
retirement date meant losing his bonus entitlement altogether. 
So the case has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points in relation to his complaint, which has evolved over time. 
While Mr B says its an indication of Phoenixs poor service, I wont address his separate 
complaint about being erroneously told his plan was 3p in arrears, as the six-month referral 
period to our service expired in July 2018.
Failing to stop contributions to the policies 
The investigator explained the relevant DISP rule which means we couldnt look into a 
complaint about Phoenix not carrying out Mr Bs instructions to cease contributions to the 
plans in 2006. Our rules say that unless a business gives consent (which Phoenix hasnt) we 
cant look into complaints about events which happened more than six years before the 
complaint was raised, and more than three years since Mr B ought reasonably to have been 
aware he had cause to complain. 
Mr B acknowledges he knew his contributions had continued, but thats not what hes 
complaining about (although he has complained Phoenix didnt fully carry out his 
instructions). I agree with the investigators assessment that a complaint about Phoenix 
failing to stop Mr Bs contributions would be too late. But as he says his complaint isnt about 
that, I dont need to address it further. During correspondence with the investigator, Mr B suggested he might wish to complain the 
FSAVC plan was mis-sold, due to information he considers misleading. The complaint Mr B 
made to Phoenix and to this service wasnt about the sale of the policy, so I havent covered 
it here. But I think its likely the same jurisdiction issues would arise, as the sale was in 1997, 
more than 20 years ago.
So Im going to focus on Mr Bs main points about whether Phoenix shouldve explained the 
impact of raising his retirement age in 2006, and whether it should now enable him to reduce 
his retirement age without penalty. 
Phoenix has supplied the call notes from December 2021 when Mr B called to say he 
thought it was unfair to charge him 1% to access his pension prior to a retirement date set 
when he was in his twenties. Although its not relevant to my consideration of the 
complaint, for completeness Mr B originally started the FSAVC plan in 1997 when hed have 
been around 35, and he requested his retirement age be raised to 65 in 2006 when he was 
around 44. 
Although hes provided no evidence, Mr B says other pension companies have allowed him 
to bring his retirement date forward without penalty. Phoenixs response explains it spreads 
charges equally across the life of a policy, whereas some providers front-load charges, 
which may avoid the exit penalty but can impact growth in the early years. In any case Mr B 
is bound by the terms of his Phoenix policy, and so what other providers do is not relevant to 
my consideration of his complaint against Phoenix.  
Phoenix failed to explain the impact of raising his retirement age
Mr B has found his decision to increase his retirement age to 65 might have adverse 
consequences which he wasnt aware of in 2006. He suggests that before carrying out his 
instructions, Phoenix should have set out the future implications for charges, bonus, and exit 
penalty, giving him the chance to reconsider.
Mr Bs letter to Phoenix in January 2006 quoted both policy numbers and requested that his 
retirement age be raised to 65. We know his requests to amalgamate the FSAVC plan with 
his personal pension, and to cease contributions to both plans (which Mr B wanted to 
happen after April when the pension regulations changed) werent implemented. But I cant 
say Phoenix was wrong to have gone ahead and raised the retirement age on the policies, 
as Mr Bs letter asked for it to happen with immediate effect. 
Mr B now wants to transfer away from Phoenix, at an age which he points out wouldnt be 
lower than what was originally agreed. But I dont think its reasonable for Mr B to expect any 
changes he now wishes to make to be exempt from the policy terms, just because he says 
he wasnt previously aware of them.
Phoenix wrote to Mr B on 18 January 2006 in relation to the personal pension (**18Y) to 
confirm the new retirement age of 65, and to show the updated number and value of units in 
his plan (held in the international series 3 and managed series 3 funds). At the bottom it read 
We confirm you have not sought or been given advice from Abbey Life in respect of this 
transaction, and the decision to request the change was your own. 
A separate letter on the same date confirmed Mr Bs personal pension had been inactive 
since 18 April 2000, and as Abbey Life was closed to new business, it wasnt possible to 
amalgamate the plans. A confirmation of the change in retirement age to 65 in relation to the FSAVC plan was 
issued on 15 June 2006. It set out the updated units and value for this policy in the 
international series 3 fund. It included the same sentence relating to advice not being given. 
So Im satisfied Phoenixs letters reflected back to Mr B that hed made the change to his 
selected retirement age of his own volition and theres no evidence he asked about any 
future implications of doing so. Even if he had asked, Phoenix couldnt have given him 
advice, although its likely to have answered any questions he raised. Mr B chose his revised 
retirement age, so Phoenix had no reason to anticipate he might subsequently decide to 
access the policy sooner than that. I dont think its reasonable to expect Phoenix to have 
proactively provided information Mr B hadnt asked for, rather than implement his clear 
instructions. 
Mr B says his decision was informed by his understanding of the policy information, so Ive 
looked at the information Mr B wouldve had access to. These are the Additional Pension for 
Employees (FSAVC) Members Booklet, a Key Features Document and a Your Questions 
Answered (YQA) document, which was enclosed with Phoenixs June 2006 letter. The 
terms of the two plans may be different, and I havent seen much information about the 
personal pension. But as Mr B stopped contributing to the personal pension after nine years, 
I think its likely any bonus entitlement has been lost. So Ive focussed on the FSAVC plan to 
which Mr B continued to contribute.
Ive first looked at what these documents say about bonus entitlement. Clause 7B(a) of the 
members booklet reads An investment bonus of 5% of the value in part or all of the Benefit 
Fund derived from the payment of Regular Pension Contributions will be paid at the Selected 
Retirement Date (or age 65 if earlier). This means Mr B has to make continuous 
contributions to age 65. But if his selected retirement date was later than that hed only need 
to contribute to age 65, but thats not relevant for Mr B. 
I think the YQA is designed to be a user-friendly way to provide answers to frequently asked 
questions. But its based on and doesnt differ from or replace information from the members 
guide. Q10 of the YQA explained what happens at the selected retirement age and said If 
regular contributions have been maintained in full until your retirement, or 65 if earlier, a 5% 
bonus will apply to the proportion of the fund represented by these regular contributions, as 
long as ten years contributions have been made. 
Clause 7B(b) of the members booklet explains the bonus wouldnt apply to contributions 
where the policy has been made paid up. And 7B(c)(iii) says the contribution period has to 
be at least ten years. I understand Mr B paused contributions between October 1998 and 
April 2001, which is why his continuous period started from April 2001. So based on the 
members booklet, if Mr B makes continuous contributions from April 2001 to his 65th birthday 
hell have exceeded the minimum ten years, so will have met the bonus eligibility criteria with 
no exit penalty. 
The issues have arisen because Mr B now wants to make another change to the policy and 
transfer it away prior to 65. He simply assumed he could do this in view of his long record of 
pension contributions with no adverse consequences. But the members booklet is clear that 
contributions have to continue to the selected retirement date (in Mr Bs case 65), and I cant 
see a reason Phoenix should make an exception for him.
Phoenix has explained the exit penalty arises due to Mr Bs obligation to pay the entirety of 
the additional charges which arose due to his decision for his pension to be invested for a 
further 15 years. Unlike some other providers, Phoenix spreads charges over the life of the 
policy, rather than front-loading them. Which means if withdrawals are made ahead of the 
predicted investment period then an adjustment must be made to reflect the charges liability. So Ive looked at what the members booklet says about charges. Two types of charges 
apply  a policy charge and a management charge (including an additional management 
charge which applies on the element of the fund which became paid up). 
Clause 10C(a) says The Pension Plan has been costed on the assumption that Regular 
Pensions Contributions will be paid throughout the term of the Pension Plan. And then 
Clause 10D(b) says that in the case of transfer or early retirement a reduction will be 
calculated to take into account the management or additional management charges that 
would have been payable over the life of the Pension Plan. And finally 10D(b) says that in 
addition to this, an administrative charge can be taken in line with normal practice at the 
time. 
Policy booklets arent always easy reading, so firms issue simplified documents alongside 
them, like a key features summary or YQA. The How much pension will I get at retirement? 
section of the Key Features document warned that if contributions are stopped or reduced 
the charges will be higher in relation to the fund. And again under the heading Can I take 
my money out? it warns If you take your pension before your chosen retirement date you 
will pay extra charges. The summary page of the members booklet includes the paragraph 
If Regular Pension Contributions cease or are reduced at any time prior to the Selected 
Retirement Date charges will be increased (Clause 10C). It also says The pension is 
expected to become payable at the Selected Retirement Date and that the pension can be 
taken early, but a charge will apply (Clause 10D). 
Section 10 relates to Charges and under Transfer and Early Retirement it explains the 
value of the fund will be reduced if the member takes benefits or transfers prior to the 
selected retirement date. The Key Features document sets out the commitment required by 
Mr B to make regular monthly or annual contributions until his chosen retirement day. And 
under Risk Factors it read If you stop or reduce your contributions, transfer your pension 
or draw it out earlier than your chosen retirement date, you will pay extra charges and your 
pension would therefore be reduced. 
Q12 of the YQA explains that if contributions cease the management charge will continue to 
apply but will be reduced. The policy holder can transfer to another provider prior to their 
selected retirement date, but if they did, for regular contributions a deduction will apply 
calculated by a formula. The formula is set out in the members booklet.  And it sets out that 
an administration fee will apply, which was £25 at the time, but was subject to revision. 
Mr B says Q11 of the YQA covering what happens if the policy holder takes early retirement, 
supports his position. At the time benefits of an FSAVC plan had to be taken at the same 
time as the employers scheme. This section confirmed that if the policyholders employer 
had given consent for early retirement, the FSAVC policy could be accessed at the same 
time, provided it was within five years of the retirement date, and 20 years of contributions 
had been made, in which case a deduction based on a formula would be made. Mr B has 
interpreted this section to apply to his situation as it says the accumulated fund will be 
available in full and makes no mention of a penalty or bonus reduction. But this information 
specifically relates to someone retiring from an occupational pension who wants to access 
their FSAVC at the same time, which isnt applicable to Mr B. 
So in summary, Mr B can choose to transfer his policy to another provider before reaching 
65 if he wishes, but hell lose the bonus entitlement. And his obligation for the additional 
charges which became payable when he raised his selected retirement age from to 65, 
mean there will be a reduction in value of his policy, which Phoenix has told him will be 
capped at 1% of the plan value. Phoenix added additional units to Mr Bs fund which will 
somewhat offset this. I think the information Mr B had access to makes the policy terms reasonably clear, and he didnt ask about future implications when he originally made the 
change. 
Ive seen nothing which makes me think Phoenix isnt applying the policy terms correctly or 
that Mr B is being treated unfairly. I cant see Phoenix has done anything wrong here, so it 
follows I cant ask it to make an exception for Mr B and waive the penalty. 
I understand Mr B is unhappy at the way Phoenix has responded to his queries. I accept it 
might have been confusing or frustrating to receive more than one reply to a query. But I 
cant see this caused him a financial loss or any material distress.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman