DRN-2845345
The complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) closed his account because 
he hadnt provided a United Kingdom address.
What happened
Mr B had a Barclaycard account. Mr B received a letter from Barclaycard dated 
8 December 2020 confirming his account was closed as his residential address registered 
with Barclaycard was a Spanish address, so it said it could no longer offer Mr B an account.
Mr B rang Barclaycard and gave it his U.K. address, but the account was not reopened.
When he spoke to Barclaycard the adviser couldnt see on her system that the bank had 
written to him prior to the closure. Barclaycard has subsequently confirmed it wrote to Mr B 
prior to 8 December, to notify him the account would be closed if he didnt provide a UK 
residential address. Mr B has said he only received a letter saying his account was closed 
and his statements.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She could see on Barclays 
system notes that it had written to Mr B twice to tell him it wouldnt be able to continue 
offering him the Barclaycard account if his residential address remained in Spain. She 
thought it was reasonable these letters were sent to Mr Bs Spanish address as this was his 
registered address for the account. She  having listened to Mr Bs December calls  
thought that whilst the adviser couldnt see evidence of letters being sent to Mr B about the 
account closure this was because the letters were sent by bulk mailing. She understood why 
Mr B was unhappy regarding the closure of the account but didnt think that obliged 
Barclaycard to continue to provide him with a credit facility. She thought Barclaycard 
provided Mr B with the notice required to close the account. She didnt think she could hold it 
responsible for him not receiving the letters.
Mr B disagrees. He would like a decision on the basis his account met and meets the 
necessary criteria - if it wasnt for the pandemic, he could be in the U.K. He thinks there is no 
reason Barclaycard should not continue with his account other than a few weeks. He says 
Barclaycard used an email address for him that he has never used. And there is no 
commercial advantage to the stance they it has taken in this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling regarding his account closure. But Barclaycard is 
entitled to close his account provided it gives the notice required by the terms and conditions 
of the account. It is for it to decide whether something is in its commercial advantage or not. 
For the notice to be effective the notice doesnt need to have been received by Mr B it just 
needs to have been sent. I am satisfied that the notice was sent. And therefore, that 
Barclaycard was entitled to close the account. I appreciate that the Barclaycard adviser not 
being able to tell Mr B about the letters when he first rang it following the card closure would 
be frustrating to Mr B. But I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong, the adviser just 
shared with him what she could see at that time. And even if Barclaycard used the wrong 
email address for Mr B as it sent notice by post  and that is all it was required to do  then 
the account closure was still valid.
I also understand that Mr B thinks the account should be reopened given he feels he meets 
the necessary criteria. As I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong when it closed his 
account, I cant order it to re-open the account. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman