DRN-2748121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt properly 
transfer a direct debit when it switched his account from another bank. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of Mr P. 
What happened
On 23 September 2020 Mr P approached RBS and asked to switch his current account from 
his now former bank to RBS. As part of the switch, Mr Ps new account details were sent by 
RBS to any third parties he paid by direct debit. Mr Ps former bank account was closed on 2 
October 2020, once the switch had been completed. 
On 16 October 2020 one of the third parties, who I will refer to as Company A, claimed a 
direct debit payment of £25.95 from Mr Ps account. 
On 16 November 2020 Mr P was due to make another direct debit payment to Company A. 
Company A tried to claim the payment from Mr Ps old bank account, which had been 
closed. The payment wasnt made, and Mr P was charged a late fee by Company A. Mr P 
complained to RBS. 
RBS responded to Mr Ps complaint and said the direct debit had been correctly switched 
and a payment was successfully made in October 2020. It said this shows Company A were 
aware of Mr Ps new account details. So it didnt uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint. 
However, RBS said the service it provided to Mr P after he raised this issue with it had been 
poor, so it paid compensation of £62  made up of £50 to apologise for the inconvenience 
and £12 to reimburse Mr P for a late fee he had been earlier promised.  
Mr P was unhappy with the response from RBS and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She said shed seen evidence from RBS that it had 
sent Company A his new account details. And the payment taken by Company A on 16 
October 2020 also showed Company A had the new account details. So the direct debit with 
Company A was correctly set up. Our investigator also said RBS had acted fairly when it 
offered Mr P £62 compensation for the poor customer service provided. 
Mr P didnt agree with what our investigator said, so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to explain that when a consumer sets up a direct debit they are doing two 
things  the first is that they are authorising a third party to claim a variable amount of money 
on a variable day from their account. And, secondly, they are giving their bank an instruction 
to pay that amount. So once the instruction is set up with the customers bank, it is for the 
third party to claim the money from the customers account. And the money will only be paid 
by the bank once the third party has made this claim. It isnt for the bank to proactively send 
money from the consumers account without a claim being made by the third party.
Looking at this situation, in order for RBS to successfully set up the direct debit, all it needed 
to do was to provide relevant third parties, such as Company A, with Mr Ps new account 
details and the relevant reference numbers. It is then for the various third parties to make a 
request to RBS for payment of the direct debit. 
So Ive looked at what RBS did to set up the direct debit. RBS has provided evidence to 
show the information it provided to Company A. It also provided a transaction history that 
shows a direct debit was taken from Mr Ps account by Company A on 16 October 2020. 
And Mr P has also confirmed this payment was taken from his account. The fact is, that in 
order for Company A to have been able to successfully request the October payment, the 
direct debit had to have been properly set up. If it wasnt, then Company A wouldnt have 
been able to claim the payment on 16 October 2020. 
If Company A has tried to claim other payments from Mr Ps former bank, this has nothing to 
do with RBS. While I am not making a finding about Company As actions, its for any third 
party, including Company A, to ensure it approaches the correct bank to request the 
payment of the direct debit. As I said, RBS wont proactively send money from Mr Ps 
account, as it needs to be claimed by any third party for whom a direct debit has been set 
up. So Im satisfied that RBS properly set up the direct debit for Company A when Mr P 
switched accounts from his former bank. 
I know that Mr P also complained about the failings in customer service. RBS has 
acknowledged that the service it provided was poor and said Mr P received a mix of 
conflicting information following conversations with four different people. It has already paid 
Mr P £50 for the inconvenience and confusion this caused and £12 to reimburse him for a 
late fee that a member of staff promised would be reimbursed. And I think this is enough to 
compensate Mr P for the inconvenience he experienced. So I wont be asking RBS to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman