DRN-2838479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has declined a claim they 
made under their furniture care and protection policy.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs K bought new leather sofas, alongside an insurance policy 
covering them for three years against damage or staining to the sofas, with various 
exclusions to cover. They noticed some damage to the sofas in July 2020 and reported this 
to Amtrust. 
Amtrust considered the claim but declined it on the grounds that the policy didnt cover 
damage relating to the breakage or failure of stitching. Unhappy with Amtrusts response, Mr 
and Mrs K made a complaint. Amtrust responded to the complaint saying its decision to 
decline had been correct. Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy with Amtrusts response, so they 
referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Amtrust had acted unfairly in 
declining the claim on the grounds it did. Because Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ks policy with Amtrust covers them for damage or stains to their sofas. But like 
any insurance policy, it doesnt cover all types of damage. My role is to determine whether or 
not it was fair for Amtrust to decline the claim on the grounds that the type of damage Mr and 
Mrs K reported and the type of damage that occurred wasnt covered.
Ive looked at the photographs of the damage provided by Mr and Mrs K. These show what 
appear to be areas of stitching coming apart and damage to parts of the sofa that are 
adjacent to the stitching that has broken and come away from the leather.
This is consistent with Mr and Mrs Ks original claim form, which states in response to the 
question: What is the damage? that the stitching is coming undone in three separate areas. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K now say that on closer inspection, they believe the stitching is not 
coming undone and that it is the vinyl that is splitting, as there are no loose ends and the 
stitching is intact. However, from looking closely at the photos provided, I dont agree  and 
what I need to consider is whether it was fair for Amtrust to decline the claim at the time and 
also whether any new evidence has come to light which I think means Amtrust should 
reconsider the claim.
I dont think Mr and Mrs Ks view that the stitching is in fact fine constitutes new evidence 
which would mean Amtrust should reconsider the claim. This is because Mr and Mrs Ks 
view that the vinyl is splitting, and that this is unrelated to any damage to the stitching, isnt 
supported by the photographs. The photographs clearly show some areas of stitching 
coming away and the splitting of the vinyl appears directly related to this, as it is occurring 
adjacent to the areas of broken stitching. 
Section 3.6 of the terms and conditions of the policy state that the insurance wont pay for 
costs arising from any damage that is related to the breakage or failure of the structure or 
any other internal mechanism of the Insured Item(s) includingstitching. So, based on the 
available evidence, Im satisfied that Amtrusts reliance on this exclusion in declining the 
claim is reasonable.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K but this means I wont be requiring Amtrust to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman