DRN-3629569
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave him unsuitable advice in 
1990 to transfer the value of his deferred occupational pension to a personal pension with 
another provider, which is now also part of Aviva. Ill refer to Aviva throughout my decision.
Mr M also complains that although the advice went through the industry-wide Pension 
Review in 1996/7, he doesnt believe that the review was carried out in line with regulatory 
guidance. He feels that he incurred a financial loss due to the transfer, even though the 
Pension Review showed that the transfer hadn't resulted in a loss. 
Mr M is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision.
What happened
In July 1990, Mr M completed a financial planning questionnaire with Avivas representative. 
In September 1990, Avivas representative advised Mr M to transfer the value of his deferred 
occupational benefits from his former employers scheme to a personal pension plan with a 
business that is now part of Aviva. 
The notes and recommendations recorded at the time of the advice stated that the transfer 
was recommended: to allow greater flexibility on retirement age. Also hope to provide a 
greater pension upon retirement.
The projections that were produced at the time showed a range of possible outcomes if the 
transfer went ahead, based on a number of assumptions. These included both better and 
worse benefits than Mr M was entitled to under his former employers scheme, depending on 
the projected investment returns and annuity rates used.
Mr M called Aviva in February 1996. He said he was unhappy with the advice to transfer. 
Aviva told Mr M that the sale of his plan would be included in the industry-wide Pension 
Review the industry regulator had asked all firms to undertake.
Mr M called Aviva again in December 1996. He said he thought Aviva had stolen some of his 
money. He questioned the integrity of the Aviva representative who had advised him. He 
said hed been told he could take all his pension benefits at age 50, an age he was 
approaching at that time. Aviva agreed to investigate the complaint. 
Aviva wrote to Mr M on 11 December 1996. It confirmed that the only retirement benefits that 
were payable to Mr M were in respect of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension the occupational 
scheme had been obliged to pay due to being contracted-out of State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS)  these were called Protected Rights within the personal pension 
plan. This meant that regardless of whether the deferred benefit had been transferred or not, 
it couldnt be paid before Mr Ms 65th birthday. 
Aviva also confirmed that it had registered the complaint and said that a review of the advice 
Mr M had been given to transfer would be carried out. It said this would include a 
comparison of the prospective benefits he might expect to receive at age 65 from the 
personal pension compared with the occupational scheme.
Aviva wrote to Mr M on 29 January 1997 to tell him that it had completed its review of the 
advice to transfer: in accordance with the guidelines issued by SEB and the Personal 
Investment Authority (PIA), our regulator.  It said that there was no evidence that the 
transfer had resulted in a financial loss. Aviva also reconfirmed that Mr Ms benefit couldnt 
be paid until his 65th birthday.
Aviva wrote to Mr M on 29 September 2006 to tell him that he could now take his Protected 
Rights benefits immediately due to the new pension freedoms. Alternatively, he could defer 
taking his benefits or take them to another provider.
I understand that Mr M took the benefits from his personal pension plan sometime later at or 
around age 65.
Several years later, on 17 November 2021, Mr M complained to Aviva through his CMC 
about the advice hed been given in 1990. He said hed only recently become aware of a 
cause for complaint. 
Mr M said hed had around six years' service in his former employers scheme. And that the 
adviser had told him that the transfer would give him a higher pension income in retirement. 
He said that if hed been warned that he might end up with a lower pension if he transferred, 
he wouldnt have accepted the advice to transfer out. Mr M said he had little experience or 
knowledge of pensions or investments. And that hed accepted the advice as being in his 
best interests. He felt that hed not been properly informed of the risks or investment costs 
involved with the recommended transfer. And that he shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out. Mr M also felt that he shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved in 
giving up what he thought were inflation-protected benefits.
Mr M said that Aviva had failed to demonstrate that the Pension Review had been carried 
out in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. He felt that the burden was 
on Aviva to demonstrate that it was, rather than on him to demonstrate that it wasnt.  He 
also felt that hed been misled in 1997 when he was told that the transfer hadnt resulted in a 
loss. He felt it had.
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 30 November 2021. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said that its regulator had intended the Pension Review to be a final resolution 
to concerns about advice. And that it had conducted the review in line with the regulators 
guidelines. It also said that its loss assessment had established that the advice to transfer 
hadnt led to a financial loss at the date of calculation. 
Mr M was unhappy with Avivas response, so he brought his complaint to this service in 
February 2022. 
Our investigator didnt consider the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Mr Ms CMC 
hadnt presented any evidence to show that the Pension Review hadnt been carried out in 
line with the regulators guidance or that the calculation was materially incorrect. As such, 
she had no reason to require Aviva to undertake a recalculation now. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. His CMC said that Mr M believed that the outcome of 
the Pension Review meant he was in the same position that he wouldve been in if hed 
remained in his employer's scheme. But this wasnt the case, as his income was drastically 
lower than it wouldve been. The CMC also said that Mr M didnt know that the Pension 
Review hadnt been carried out in accordance with the regulators rules at the time.Our investigator asked Mr Ms CMC to give her specific reasons that it felt the Pension 
Review had been deficient. But it didnt provide any. 
Aviva felt that it had provided evidence that Mr Ms pension plan had been reviewed in line 
with the regulators guidance. It said it understood that it wouldnt be required to re-open 
cases that had been reviewed, regardless of whether redress had been offered or there was 
a no loss outcome. It also said that it wasnt the first time that the CMC had made a claim 
that a review hadnt been carried out in line with the regulators guidelines, but then failed to 
provide any evidence to substantiate that claim. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Although Mr M thinks that he was unsuitably 
advised, Im satisfied that Aviva addressed this complaint in 1996/7 by carrying out a loss 
assessment through the Pension Review it undertook. I also consider that Aviva has shown 
that it carried out the Pension Review in accordance with the regulatory requirements. I 
know my decision will be disappointing for Mr M. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Pension Review
In 1994 the regulator at the time established an industry-wide review of some pension sales 
following concerns that people had been badly advised to leave or not join their employers 
pension scheme. This was generally known as the Pension Review.
The regulator set up guidelines it required firms to follow when carrying out that review. The 
process was highly monitored at the time. The review itself was intended to be a one-off 
exercise to put things right where necessary.
Ive been provided with a copy of the outcome letter that Aviva sent to Mr M after it had 
carried out a review of the transfer. This showed that it did carry out a review under the 
Pension Review. And that the review concluded that Mr M hadnt suffered a financial loss 
due to the transfer. Ive also been provided with a copy of the loss assessment. So Im 
satisfied that Mr Ms transfer has been through the Pension Review process.
As Im satisfied that Mr Ms transfer from his former employers scheme to his personal 
pension plan has been through the Pension Review process, I cant re-visit the advice he 
was given. This is because it has already been reviewed, and a business was only required 
to carry out the review once. However, I can consider any specific concerns Mr M has about 
whether the Pension Review was correctly carried out. 
This service isnt able to check a Pension Review calculation thoroughly in such a way that 
we can guarantee there are no errors in it. Instead, we approach these issues on a fair and 
reasonable basis taking into account the areas of concern thatve been raised. 
I acknowledge that Mr M feels that the advice to transfer was unsuitable. But Aviva 
addressed this complaint by carrying out a Pension Review in 1996/7. I understand that 
Aviva has provided a copy of the resulting calculation output to Mr M when it issued its final 
response to his complaint. This calculation was used to determine whether Mr M had been 
financially disadvantaged by the transfer. And it found that he hadnt been.Through his CMC, Mr M said that the outcome of the Pension Review was misleading. But 
neither the CMC nor Mr M have produced any evidence to show that the calculation was 
carried out incorrectly. Or to show that it wasnt carried out in line with the regulators 
guidelines. In order to be able to fairly uphold this complaint, I would need Mr M or his CMC 
to explain which regulatory requirements werent met, or which specific items of data they 
think are wrong in those calculations.
As neither Mr M nor his CMC have specifically told us what they think was wrong with the 
Pension Review calculations, were entitled to place some weight on the fact that the 
calculations were subject to supervision and sampling by the regulator at the time, which 
included going back to correct any systemic errors  so theyre unlikely to be incorrect.
Unfortunately, the assumptions the regulator required businesses to use  including for 
future investment returns and annuity rates  havent been borne out in reality. So while I 
understand why Mr M now considers that the outcome of the Pension Review was 
misleading, a business was only required to carry out the Pension Review once, based on 
assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time. The fact that these assumptions may not 
have been achieved doesnt provide grounds to redo the calculation. 
While I acknowledge that Mr Ms CMC considers that Aviva has failed to demonstrate that 
the Pension Review was carried out in accordance with the applicable regulatory 
requirements, I dont agree. Im satisfied that Aviva has reasonably demonstrated that the 
Pension Review was fairly and correctly carried out. Im also satisfied that the Pension 
Review was carried out in line with the regulators guidelines at the time. Therefore I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman