DRN-2098096
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain that Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G bought a MPPI policy which started in 1998 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The policy was sold during meeting and covered Mr G against accidents, 
sickness and unemployment. The policy and mortgage ended in 2006.
Mrs G and Mr G believe Yorkshire mis-sold the policy to them. They say through their 
representative, that they did not know they had MPPI. They say it was added without their 
knowledge. They add that when Mr G was made redundant after the policy was sold, he 
didnt claim benefit, proving they were unaware they had it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs G and Mr G dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs G and Mr Gs case.
Ive decided to not uphold Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mrs G and Mr G during the meeting. Ive 
looked at what they said about how the policy was sold  including that they were say 
they were unaware of the policy. But I think, after considering the documentation 
provided including a mortgage application form and a separate MPPI form that was 
signed by them, I am persuaded a conversation was had about PPI and Mrs G and Mr G 
were given a choice to have the policy. I havent seen enough information to support 
what Mrs G and Mr G have said, to safely conclude otherwise.
I cannot be sure if Yorkshire advised Mrs G and Mr G to have MPPI, but I dont need to 
make a finding on this point as it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for Mr G (as the sole 
policy holder) anyway based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr G 
has said he had sick pay and savings but cant remember what these were (this is 
understandable due to the amount of time that has passed). I am persuaded he would 
have found the benefit provided by the policy useful at a difficult time over an extended 
period. I also couldnt find anything else within the policy such as a restrictive or limiting 
term that would have made the policy unsuitable for Mr G.
Yorkshire has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI that        
Mrs G and Mr G took out within the sales documentation and the costs are given on the 
separate application form. But I cannot be sure if it verbally provided costs to them in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way in the meeting. That said, even if it did provide clear 
information, it wouldnt have made any difference to whether Mrs G and Mr G would 
have taken the policy out or not. I say this for the same reasons why I think the policy 
was suitable for Mr G. And its possible Yorkshire didnt point out the main things the 
policy didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr G wouldve been affected by any of these.
Im not persuaded Mrs G and Mr G would have avoided protecting their repayments 
given the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against their home.
Finally, Mr G says he was made redundant shortly after the sale but didnt claim benefit. But 
Mr G may wish to approach the insurer again to see if it would be prepared to accept and 
consider a retrospective claim. If he does pursue a retrospective claim and finds that he has 
concerns in this regard, then he should first express those concerns to the insurer, and if 
unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, they may be able to bring a complaint relating to 
the retrospective claim to this service as a separate matter.
I know this will be disappointing to Mrs G and Mr G but I dont think they were mis-sold the 
MPPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman