DRN-2939588
The complaint
Mr M complains that Forex Capital Markets Limited (FXCM) failed to execute a limit order 
he placed on a trade.
What happened
Mr M has a trading account with FXCM through which he placed a short trade on 8 January 
2019 at 17.43:06 which closed on 9 January 2019 at 19.29:25. The price on opening was 
1.24723 with Mr M setting a limit of 1.24410. The trade was closed at a price of 1.24706 at a 
loss to Mr M.
Mr M complained to FXCM about the trade because he thought the price had reached the 
limit price he had set and should have been closed at that point. He said the same thing had 
happened for an earlier trade in October 2009. 
FXCM didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that the price on opening the short trade was 
the bid price and that the price on exiting the trade was the ask price. It said the ask price 
didnt reach the limit price that Mr M had set so the trade was executed correctly. It also said 
it had acted correctly in the earlier trade in 2009. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think FXCM had done anything 
wrong. He said the complaint about what happened in 2009 had been made too late. 
As for the trade in 2019 the investigator said the price had never reached the limit price that 
Mr M had set. He agreed with FXCM that the relevant price was the ask price. He explained 
that for short trades you enter on the bid price and exit on the ask price. He attached two 
charts provided by FXCM showing the bid and ask prices for the trade.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said the charts the investigator had provided 
didnt represent his case and werent screenshots of his account. He said the investigator 
should get a screenshot of his account and that this would take away any confusion as to 
what happened.
The investigator responded and said the charts he had sent Mr M show the correct price 
information for Mr Ms position at the time. He said the information shown in the charts is the 
price data for the platform so he wouldnt expect them to have details specific to Mr Ms 
account - such as his account number or ticket number. He said Mr Ms account would take 
information from the data shown in the charts.
Mr M still didnt agree with the investigator, so the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr M feels strongly that FXCM has done something wrong and that it 
hasnt treated him fairly, but, for the same reasons as the investigator I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
Regarding the trade in 2009 Mr Ms complaint about that has been made too late, as the 
investigator said. Mr M has not said anything about this in response to the investigators 
opinion so hasnt provided any argument or information to indicate this is wrong. 
In short, a complaint must be made no more than six years from the event complained about 
 in this case the trade in 2009  or, if later no more than three years from when the person 
complaining was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause for 
complaint. Mr M is obviously too late under the six- year time limit. He is also too late under 
the three-year time limit as he was aware his limit order had not been successful at the time 
of the trade in 2009.
Turning to the trade in 2009 Mr Ms argument, that the price limit he set was reached and 
that FXCM failed to close his trade at that point, is based on his reliance on the information 
in his account which he says showed the price reached the limit he had put. However, from 
the evidence I have seen, what he is relying on is information about the bid price. 
As has been explained by both FXCM and the investigator, it is the ask price that is relevant. 
FXCM has provided separate charts for the bid price and ask price, and the chart for the ask 
price shows the limit price wasnt reached.
Mr M has suggested these charts dont show the price for the trade in his account. However, 
the charts show what the price was on FXCMs platform at the time. There isnt some other 
price that would be showing in individual client accounts separate to what the platform is 
showing. He has provided no evidence that the charts provided by FXCM dont provided the 
same information about price as Mr M would have seen in his account at the time. 
Mr M has provided no response to what he has been told about his trade being closed 
based on the ask price and that the chart he has provided shows the bid price. The chart for 
the ask price that FXCM has provided  which I accept shows the ask price that applied to 
Mr Ms trade at the time  shows that his limit price wasnt reached. So, FXCM has done 
nothing wrong in closing the trade when it did and at the price it did rather than at the limit 
price.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman