DRN-3858830
The complaint
Mr B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc has unfairly and incorrectly 
registered adverse data against him with credit reference agencies in relation to his 
mortgage account held with the bank. To settle the complaint Mr B would like NatWest to 
remove the entries from his credit file.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr B being identified. 
Briefly, in November 2019, after experiencing some financial difficulties, Mr B agreed with 
NatWest that his mortgage payments would be deferred for three months, until February 
2022. The arrangement was confirmed by NatWest in a letter dated 28 November 2019.
In February 2020 Mr B agreed a repayment plan over a period of 17 months from March 
2020 to make up the shortfall in payments. Mr B was able to bring the mortgage up to date 
by March 2021.
In 2022 Mr B wanted to re-mortgage to another lender but wasnt able to do so because of 
the information recorded by NatWest on his credit file. Mr B complained, but NatWest didnt 
uphold the complaint, the bank explaining that it had accurately reported the position on the 
account to the credit reference agencies.
Dissatisfied with the banks response, Mr B contacted our service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened but didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. Mr B asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr B: Im not upholding his 
complaint.
On 25 November 2019 when Mr B called NatWest, it was explained by the bank that the 
bank could allow up to three months of arrears on the account, and that this would be 
reported to credit reference agencies. The bank also confirmed that it would report arrears 
on the account to credit reference agencies in its letter of 28 November 2019. Im satisfied, 
therefore, that before Mr B entered into the arrangement, he was made aware that this 
would impact his credit file.
The arrears werent cleared in a lump sum, but were repaid over a period of time. Im 
satisfied, therefore, that the information NatWest provided to the credit reference agencies 
was accurate. This is because the mortgage account fell into arrears of £3,367, and until 
these were repaid, they would show as arrears on the credit file.
NatWest is required to report the true position on the account. Im satisfied that the bank did 
so, and so I can find no basis on which I could reasonably order NatWest to remove the 
adverse entries on Mr Bs credit file. The entries accurately reflect a period of financial 
difficulty and the length of time taken to clear the arrears.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman