DRN-3066666
The complaint
Miss L complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion; please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss L acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It says that when
we consider whether goods have been of satisfactory quality we should think about whether
they have been durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss L. The car here was only 
about one year old and had only completed about 2,700 miles. So, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be exhibiting much wear and tear, if any.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for the cars 
quality. But as Miss Ls car failed after six months the law puts the onus on her to 
demonstrate the fault was developing when the car was supplied to her.
I think the bar is low here as I dont think a reasonable person would expect a cars engine to
fail catastrophically after only a little over 25,000 miles. I think a reasonable person would 
expect a cars engine to last significantly longer than that and wouldnt therefore think the car 
had proven durable.
I dont think theres evidence that the engine failed through any negligence on Miss Ls part 
and I can see that the car was serviced by Miss L in line with the manufacturers 
recommendations.
So, I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality as it hasnt been durable.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to fix a problem that is present at
the point of supply. But it also says that repairs should be carried out in a reasonable space
of time. Miss L has been waiting over two years to have this problem resolved and I dont 
think thats reasonable, so I think MotoNovo should now allow her to reject the car.
Putting things right
MotoNovo will need to end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss L.
As Miss L hasnt been able to use the car since 14 May 2019 MotoNovo should refund any
finance instalments shes paid since that time in respect of the lack of use shes had from the
car. And as Miss L has been deprived of that money theyll need to add interest to the 
refund.
They should also refund the deposit Miss L paid and, again, as shes been deprived of that
money MotoNovo should add interest to that refund too.
Miss L has been inconvenienced by these issues. She needed to get her car recovered 
when she broke down and shes had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved much earlier. I the circumstances I would agree with the 
investigator that MotoNovo should pay her £300 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
allow Miss L to reject the car and end her finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Miss L;
refund any finance instalments Miss L paid from 14 May 2019 and add 8% simple 
interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any deposit Miss L paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Miss L £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconveniences shes 
experienced;
remove the finance agreement and any adverse information related to this 
agreement from Miss Ls credit file.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from the interest Im asking
them to pay, they must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax they have taken off if
she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman