DRN-3741301
The complaint
A company that I will refer to as U complains about the settlement of its business interruption 
insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, by AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the key facts. And, whilst other parties 
have been involved in the correspondence, I will just refer to U and AXA for the sake of 
simplicity. 
U operates as a dental practice and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by AXA. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and related 
government-imposed restrictions, U had to temporarily cease the majority of its normal 
operations. In March 2020, U claimed for its losses under the business interruption section of 
its policy. 
AXA agreed that there was a valid claim and a settlement has been paid. However, U does 
not consider the settlement wholly fair. Largely, the dispute relates to whether or not fees 
paid to associates should be included in the settlement. AXA has said that U was not 
obliged to pay these fees during the lockdown period, when the dental practice was not 
operating. So, in paying these fees it had not met its obligation to minimise the claim. U has 
said that in late March 2020 it held a directors meeting and agreed that it was necessary to 
continue to pay two of the associates at historic levels. 
When AXA did not change its stance, U referred its complaint to the Ombudsman Service. 
However, our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. She thought that U 
had not been required to pay the associate fees, but chose to do so. And so she did not 
consider AXA had acted unreasonably by deducting these from the settlement of Us losses.
U remained unsatisfied and its complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
I contacted U and outlined that my initial thinking was that whilst U had made a decision to 
pay the associate fees so that certain work required by the dental practice could be carried 
out, it wasnt clear that U had met its obligation to minimise the claim. I pointed out that the 
majority of the tasks the retained associates were asked to undertake were otherwise, 
presumably, carried out by employees of U. I asked U to explain how paying associates for 
this work mitigated the losses U experienced in the indemnity period.
U responded saying, in part, if the associates hadnt taken on the tasks of dealing with 
patients, triage services, maintaining functionality of equipment, producing clinical protocols 
and the like, other suitably qualified third parties would have had to have been retained. U 
also said that the work carried out by the associates meant that U was in a better position to 
reopen once restrictions were lifted. And that if employees had performed some of the tasks 
the associates took on (at least those they were qualified to do), there would be no saving in 
those staff expenses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded to uphold Us complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing to do is to set out what the policy provides for in relation to the claimed losses. 
The main, relevant cover provided by Us policy indemnified them against:
loss of gross income in accordance with the following provisions
i) by paying for the Indemnity Period the amount by which the gross income 
during the Indemnity Period shall fall short of the gross income during the 
equivalent period immediately before the damage
ii) by paying any reasonable additional expenses incurred in maintaining 
gross income during the Indemnity Period but not more than the loss avoided 
under (i) less any amount saved during the Indemnity Period in respect of 
reduced expenses due to the damage In adjusting the amount paid all 
variations or special circumstances affecting the Business shall be taken into 
account in order that the amount paid shall represent as nearly as practicable 
the results which would have been expected if the damage had not occurred

No claim shall be payable under this section unless the Insured
i) shall take all action which may be reasonably practicable to minimise or 
check any interruption of or interference with the Business to avoid or 
diminish the loss
The general indemnity period for business interruption on Us policy was 24 months. 
However, the claim was met under the Murder Suicide or Disease extension to this cover, 
which said:
The Insurance by this Extension shall only apply for the period beginning with the 
occurrence of the loss and ending not later than three months thereafter during which 
the results of the Business shall be affected in consequence of the damage
The policy also included cover in relation to increased cost of working. Slightly separate 
cover was provided in relation to additional expenditure that was necessary and reasonable 
during the indemnity period to limit the reduction in gross income, and additional expenditure 
that was necessary and reasonable to prevent or minimise an interruption.
It is possible the ongoing associate fees could be considered under (ii) above or either of the 
additional working expenditure terms. But I dont think it I need to make any finding here 
about which applies. All of these require the additional expenditure to be reasonable and to 
reduce the impact of the insured event.
So, the question becomes, was it reasonable for U to retain the associates, paying them 
effectively what they would have been paid had the dental practice been fully operational, 
during a period when the practice was largely closed. 
At this point, it is helpful to outline Us business arrangements as I understand them. U has a 
number of employees and directors. In addition to this, U uses the services of three dentists. 
These dentists are self-employed (or employed via other companies) and operate as associates. Copies of example contracts for associate services have been provided. 
These, in part, set out that the associates are paid based on the dental work they perform 
and the income this generates. These contracts also set out other terms that are relevant 
that I have referred to in more detail below. 
Two of the associates with service contracts are also directors of U. These are the two 
associates U decided it was necessary to continue paying. 
The minutes from the directors meeting in March 2020 state that the retention of these 
associates was necessary to provide emergency cover for patients, including those of the 
third associate. The retained associates would also have to take on the responsibility of 
maintaining the practices medical equipment. U has said the retained associates also 
carried out tasks and made plans to prepare the practice for operation once the national 
restrictions were removed. 
I previously asked U to explain whether income was received for the telephone consultations 
etc. that the associates were retained to provide during the lockdown period. But further 
details were not forthcoming. AXA has said that the accounting information provided by U 
demonstrated that no turnover was generated for the full months the practice was closed. 
As per the existing contracts of service, this income would form the basis of the associates 
remuneration. Any income received from this activity would also have been split between U 
and the associates in line with this contract as it existed pre-March 2020. So, given U 
recorded no income as having been received, it follows that nothing would be payable to the 
associates for this. 
Certainly, it is difficult to see how paying the associates at the same level for providing a 
significantly reduced service is justifiable taking into account the need to minimise losses. It 
is not clear to me that paying the associate the same as they would have received when the 
practice was fully operational is reasonable, even taking into account the additional 
responsibilities the associates were tasked with. 
It is also not clear to me why the associates themselves were tasked with these additional 
responsibilities. U has said that some of the tasks, including maintaining certain equipment 
needed to be undertaken by registered dental professionals. But it doesnt seem that the 
associates were required to undertake these tasks when the practice was open  they arent 
included in the contracts for service, which say that the practice is responsible for providing 
functional equipment, and the practice felt it necessary to specifically require the retained 
associates to take on these tasks in the lockdown. U has said that the two retained 
associates did not perform this maintenance in their role as directors. So, it can only be that 
this work was normally performed by another member of staff. 
I asked U to demonstrate that retaining the associates on, effectively, full pay for in part 
carrying out this maintenance was an act that minimised the losses of the practice. But I 
have not been persuaded by its response. U didnt explain who would normally carry out this 
work, and why retaining the associates was more cost effective that having the work done as 
it would normally be.
The other additional work U required the associates to undertake was operational planning 
and arrangements for ensuring the practice could reopen and hit the ground running. It isnt 
clear to me that at least some of this is work that the directors of the company werent best 
placed to carry out. However, regardless, this work was also to minimise losses occurring 
outside of the indemnity period for the claim. As above, the indemnity period relating to 
claims under the Murder Suicide or Disease extension to the business interruption section of 
Us policy was limited to three months. Us claim began with the government-imposed national lockdown in March 2020. And so would only have covered insured losses until three 
months after this. 
U reopened beyond this period, so any reduction in losses caused by operational planning, 
etc. would only have applied after the indemnity period. As such, any additional costs 
incurred by this planning this would not have minimised losses in the indemnity period, and 
so would not be claimable under the policy. 
Taking all of this into account, I am not persuaded that in paying the associates at historic 
levels during the period of the claim U acted to minimise its losses as it was required to do. It 
follows that I consider AXA was entitled to deduct these costs from the settlement it paid to 
U. I know this decision will be disappointing for U and its directors, but I hope Ive provided 
them with a thorough explanation of why I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman