DRN-3653810
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) have failed to 
refund over £58,000 they lost from their joint account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O fell victim to an investment scam in August 2018. They sent over £58,000 
from their joint personal account to AKV Financial Holdings (AKV) that they believed was a 
legitimate company offering managed forex trades but turned out to be fraudulent. 
Danske Bank refused to refund Mr and Mrs Os money as it said they had authorised the 
transaction. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think any intervention 
by the bank would have ultimately prevented the loss. Mr and Mrs O disagreed, so the 
matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs O authorised the disputed payments they made to AKV 
financial holdings from their Danske Bank account. The payments were requested by 
them using their legitimate security credentials provided by Danske Bank, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Danske Bank should have done more to prevent Mr 
and Mrs O from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I accept that the £25,000 payment Mr and Mrs O made from their account on 1 August 
2018 should have arguably triggered Danske Banks fraud prevention systems, as it was 
a much larger payment than had previously been made from the account in the past 12 
months. So, I agree the bank ought to have contacted Mr and Mrs O to ask further 
questions about the nature of the payment.
However, even if Danske Bank had intervened at this point and asked further probing 
questions about the nature of the payment, Im not persuaded it would have likely 
stopped Mr and Mrs O from proceeding or have ultimately prevented their loss. 
Mr O said he had been advised to make the investment by his brother, i.e. someone he 
trusted, who himself had been advised by a well-known broker (who also fell victim to the 
scam). So, if Danske Bank had asked how he had come to make the investment, it 
wouldnt have appeared suspicious given it had been recommended by a family member 
(as opposed to a stranger approaching them online, for example). Mr O said he had also 
spoken with AKVs sales team on several occasions, and that everything had led him to 
believe he was dealing with a genuine company. A search online from August 2018 
about the company also does not show any negative information about AKV either. 
So, even if Danske Bank had intervened and provided Mr and Mrs O with a scam 
warning, Im not persuaded that any further checks they could have carried out would 
have revealed that they were being scammed. At the time the payment was made, there 
was nothing placed on the IOSCO investor alerts portal or FCA watchlist concerning 
AKV. So, there wouldnt have been anything significant to alert Mr and Mrs O to the 
likelihood of the investment being a scam. And given it had been recommended by a 
family member, it seems even less likely they would have suspected it as being 
fraudulent. Therefore, I dont think Danske Banks failure to intervene and provide a 
warning can reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Mr and Mrs Os loss in 
these circumstances, as it seems likely they would have proceeded to make the 
transactions irrespective of any intervention by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether Danske Bank could have done more to recover the 
funds. However, I can see that it reached out to the receiving banks once the fraud had 
been reported, but was told that unfortunately no funds remained, as is often the case in 
instances of fraud as the money is typically moved on quickly after it has been deposited. 
And given the fraud had not been reported until August 2020 (almost two years after the 
first scam payment was sent), it seems very unlikely that Danske Bank could have done 
anything more to have recovered the lost funds. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs O, and Im sorry to hear 
they have been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider 
it would be fair and reasonable to hold the bank liable for their loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman