DRN-2292996
The complaint
Miss C complains as director of M (a limited company) that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) hasnt 
reimbursed her for the money she lost after she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too 
much detail here. In April 2019 Miss C made a transfer of £30,000 from Ms business 
account. She made the payment to what she thought was a bank which would be arranging 
an investment for her, but turned out to be a scammer.
In June 2019 Lloyds got in touch with Miss C to let her know suspicious activity had been 
identified on the account shed made the payment to. At this point she discovered shed 
been the victim of a scam.
Miss C made a complaint to Lloyds. She said under the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) Lloyds should reimburse her for her loss. 
Lloyds didnt agree as the payment was made before the CRM code came into force. It said 
once it became aware of the suspicious activity it requested the return of Miss Cs money but 
it had already been removed from the account so there was nothing more it could do.
Miss C brought the complaint to our service but the investigator didnt uphold it. They felt the 
payment Miss C made wasnt significantly unusual enough for Lloyds to have intervened and 
carried out further checks. But even if it had, they didnt think this wouldve stopped Miss C 
from making the payment or alerted her to a scam. They thought the information shed been 
given by the scammer was persuasive enough she likely wouldve been able to convince 
Lloyds the investment was genuine. They also thought Miss C was so taken in by the scam 
that general warnings wouldnt have broken the spell for her and alerted her to a problem.
Miss C didnt accept the investigators findings. She felt the payment was unusual for her and 
shouldve prompted further checks from Lloyds. She also felt that had she been questioned 
further or told more about the existence of clone firm investment scams she wouldve 
recognised she was the victim of one and wouldnt have lost her money.
As Miss C didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Lloyds have done more to prevent the transfer Miss C made?
Theres no dispute the transfer Miss C made was an authorised payment even though she 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payment herself and under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss C is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
Ive noted Miss C has mentioned the CRM Code, but this only applies to payments made 
after 28 May 2019. As her payment was made before this date the code doesnt apply and 
so isnt something Ive taken into account when considering her case.
But Ive taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, other, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Our investigator has said the payment Miss C made to the scammer wasnt significantly 
unusual activity. Theyve noted Miss C made a payment of the same amount just a few 
months before the payment to the scammer so it formed a pattern of behaviour. And, 
although the payment was to a new payee, Miss Cs account is a business account. They 
didnt think it was significantly unusual for a business account to be making substantial 
payments to a new payee. But having reviewed the information carefully alongside Miss Cs 
additional points, I think the payment to the scammer reasonably ought to have prompted 
intervention from Lloyds. 
The general spending on Miss Cs account in the year leading up to the £30,000 transfer is 
for significantly lower amounts consistently throughout the year. Whilst she made one 
payment of around £20,000 a couple of months prior to the this, I dont think this one other 
payment does indicate a different pattern of behaviour. And given how high value the 
transaction she sent to scammers was, together with the fact it was sent to a new payee, I 
think it reasonably ought to have been recognised as significantly unusual activity. So overall 
I think the payment ought reasonably to have prompted further intervention from Lloyds. 
Would Lloyds intervention have made a difference?
Overall, like the investigator, I dont think had Lloyds intervened it wouldve likely prevented 
the payment from being made. For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think its reasonable to 
expect Lloyds should have had an awareness of investments scams, how they might work 
and systems in place to try and protect its customers from them. 
I see no reason why Miss C wouldnt have told Lloyds she was making an investment if it 
had asked after identifying the unusual transaction she was carrying out. After all, she 
believed she was investing with a genuine company. And, after ascertaining this, there are a 
number of enquiries Id have reasonably expected Lloyds to make. For example, the bank 
couldve asked if she was cold-called, how she came across the company and what returns 
shed been promised to see if the answers mirrored what the bank ought to have known 
about the way investment scams tend to be perpetrated.Based on the information shes given us, I cant see any reason Mrs C wouldnt have given 
Lloyds the following information:
Shed wanted to make an investment and used the internet to find an investment 
company that offered the type of investment and rate of return she was looking for. 
She was contacted after making an enquiry with a company shed found online.
Shed asked her accountant about the firm shed been contacted by and theyd 
confirmed it was a legitimate bank. And whilst shes explained this person wasnt a 
financial advisor, it appears this is someone she trusted and believed to have reliable 
financial knowledge.
She was in correspondence with the scammer for several weeks before she made 
the transfer. Shed checked email addresses to make sure they appeared genuine 
and checked any links in the emails to make sure they linked to the banks genuine 
website. She checked the address provided at the bottom of correspondence 
matched the registered address of the bank and noted that all correspondence 
appeared to come from the same individual. 
When she was asked to make the transfer to the scammers she noticed the account 
shed been asked to make the payment to was in a name that didnt appear to be 
linked the investment she believed she was making. She said she challenged the 
scammer but they told her this was a third party which was handling the funds. 
She was provided realistic and persuasive literature about the investment she was 
led to believe she was making and she was asked to complete forms and provide 
identification before making the transfer.
Overall, I think the answers she likely wouldve given Lloyds to any questions it had asked 
wouldve been persuasive and plausible. So I dont think it wouldve had reasonable cause to 
suspect the investment was a scam or refuse to carry out the transaction.
Ive also thought carefully about whether anything else ought to have alerted Lloyds to the 
scam, but Im not persuaded it shouldve. At the time Miss C made the payment there hadnt 
been any warnings issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Lloyds couldve 
checked so there were no checks of its own I wouldve expected it to have made that 
wouldve uncovered the scam. Ive also considered the details of the investment itself. The 
details Miss C has provided including the rate of return arent so unusual I wouldve 
expected this to have alerted Lloyds to a problem. 
But, as well as asking questions about what she was doing I think there is also information 
Lloyds ought reasonably to have given Miss C when it was making its enquiries. For 
example, I think it ought to have warned Miss C that scammers can and do try and pass 
themselves off as existing regulated investment companies. I also think it ought to have 
drawn attention to the FCAs website, specifically the information on avoiding fraudulent 
investment scams and its fraud warning list.
Miss C has said she wasnt aware of clone firm investment scams specifically and had she 
been told about this she wouldve uncovered the scam. But Im not persuaded this is the 
case. 
Had she been given sufficient warnings, I think its likely that, having been directed to the 
FCAs website by Lloyds as I think she ought to have been, Miss C wouldve gone there for 
further information. As well as further information about this type of scam, the FCA website also has a warning list of any firms that have been cloned. And as Ive mentioned, at the 
time she made the payment, the firm she thought she was dealing with wasnt on this list. So 
I dont think this wouldve given Miss C cause for concern or prevented her making the 
payment.
Ive also noted that Miss C said she was checking emails appeared to be genuine, that links 
led to the banks genuine website and that the address shed been given was the correct 
registered address. So whilst she may not have known clone firm investment scams were a 
recognised and named type of scam, I think these checks indicate she did have an 
awareness that scammers might try to pass themselves off as an existing firm. 
Ive noted her comments that she feels she wouldve been prompted to carry out further 
internet searches of her own had Lloyds told her more, and shes provided specific links to 
websites she believes she wouldve discovered. But she was always able to carry out 
internet searches and I dont think she needed specific information from the bank in order to 
do this. Theres no guarantee she wouldve uncovered the specific links shes now provided 
and the situations described on these sites are different to hers even if they broadly carry the 
same hallmarks of this type of scam. 
I understand that with the benefit of hindsight information like this might feel like it wouldve 
been an obvious warning. But I dont think its more likely than not Miss C wouldve taken it 
as such at the time given shed satisfied herself with other checks and the FCA website 
wouldnt have carried a warning.
Overall, whilst I recognise her strength of feeling, I dont think further warnings from Lloyds 
likely wouldve convinced Miss C not to make the payment. Although Im sorry to hear of 
what shes been through, I cant fairly hold Lloyds liable for her loss. 
Did Lloyds do everything I would expect in trying to recover the funds?
In this case the receiving bank contacted Lloyds to let it know Miss C had likely been the 
victim of fraud due to the activity it had recognised on the account as suspicious. When it did 
this the receiving bank had already frozen the account but it was unfortunately confirmed 
Miss Cs money had already left the account and couldnt be returned to her.
Unfortunately as Miss Cs money had already left the receiving account there is nothing 
more I wouldve expected Lloyds to do to try and retrieve it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 July 2021. 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman