DRN-1749611
The complaint
Ms U complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) acted unreasonably when she made a 
claim on her motor insurance policy after an accident.
What happened
Ms U told us initially that as another driver had collided with the rear of her car, she thought 
he was at fault, but UKI had decided that she caused the accident. She said she thought a 
court hearing should be arranged to decide the matter. Ms U also said UKI had wrongly told 
her that the accident  would affect her no claims bonus (NCD) despite it being protected. 
And she said shed asked UKI about whether it gave the other driver her home address but 
got no response to her query.  
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Us complaint. She said as Ms U hadnt complained to 
UKI about her NCD, we werent able to look at that issue. She thought UKI had considered 
all the information about the accident before making its decision. That included both drivers 
accounts and the damage to the cars. Ms U said the other driver was speeding - but his 
account was that she started to move into his lane when he was too close to her car to stop. 
The damage was to the front left-hand corner of the other car and to the rear right-hand 
corner of Ms Us car. There was no independent evidence, such as CCTV coverage. 
Ms U and her representative (Mr U) said the main issue was that Ms U didnt accept full 
responsibility for the accident. They said shed seen the other car before she moved to her 
right but had judged that it was still safe to do so. They also said that neither UKI nor the 
investigator had considered legal precedents, which in their view showed that any driver who 
hit another car from behind was at fault, at least to some extent. They thought the only 
question was the amount of liability that attached to the other driver. They noted that the 
investigator had pointed out that a policy term allowed UKI to decide how to settle any claim 
as it saw fit. In their opinion, that was an unfair contract term. 
The investigator said the damage to the cars seemed to show that the other driver was 
established in the right-hand lane when Ms U started to enter it, leaving him no time to stop. 
She also pointed out that we looked at whether the way an insurer had acted seemed to be 
fair and reasonable, rather than considering legal precedents. Ms U said previous decisions 
must be considered. She cited an incident where a relative of hers was held to be 70% at 
fault by a court when he hit a car entering his lane from a slip road from behind. She also 
cited a 2011 Court of Appeal decision involving a bus driving into the car in front of it. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at the way UKI dealt with Ms Us NCD, as it must be given the chance to address 
that with her first. The file notes show that Ms U told UKI the other driver had called at her 
home, but not that she raised it as a complaint with UKI, so I cant look at that either.  
Our role is to consider whether an insurer acted reasonably in using the discretion it has 
under a policy to settle any claim as it sees fit. I dont agree with Ms U that a term giving UKI 
such discretion is unfair it itself. A similar term is included as standard in most, if not all, 
motor insurance policies. Whats important is how the discretion is used. 
Insurers deal with a huge volume of claims and have a great deal of experience in deciding 
whether a claim can realistically be argued with another insurer or defended successfully in 
court. We only interfere with an insurers decision if we think it hasnt acted reasonably in 
using its discretion in the unique circumstances of each case.  
Ive looked at the details of Ms Us claim and the evidence that UKI considered. I can see 
why UKI thought it wouldnt be able to argue successfully that the other driver was to blame 
for the accident. The evidence seems to show that he was established in the right-hand lane, 
close to Ms Us car, before Ms U tried to enter it. She said she saw his car before starting to 
move over into that lane, but thought she had time to make the manoeuvre safely.
I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Ms U hadnt had time to do that. The location of the 
damage supports the other drivers version of events, as it shows the impact was only  to the 
right-hand rear corner of Ms Us car. Ms U has suggested that the damage wasnt to the 
centre rear of her car as the other driver swerved at the last minute. But theres nothing to 
show that was the case. And if the other driver swerved  especially at speed - it seems 
unlikely that the damage to his car would have been confined to its front left-hand corner.  
 
UKI pointed out that Ms U couldnt show that the other driver was speeding, even if he was. 
But she says shed only been in the right-hand lane for two seconds when his car hit hers. 
Ms Us timing can only be an estimate, but I think it shows her recollection is that the impact 
was immediate. That being so, I think it was fair for UKI to decide it was more likely than not 
that a court would find she started her manoeuvre when the other car was too close to avoid 
an impact with the corner of her car.     
In my opinion, Ms U is mistaken in believing that if a driver collides with the rear of another 
car, that driver is always held at fault, although thats usually the case. And it seems Ms Us 
accident wasnt a typical rear-end shunt. I cant comment in any detail about the claim her 
relative was involved in, or on the Court of Appeal case she cited. But from what shes said, 
it seems the circumstances in those cases were quite different to those in her case. It isnt 
our role to find or analyse legal precedents. But the outcome in court (and the decisions 
insurers make) will always depend on the exact circumstances of each case. 
As I understand it, Ms U thinks a court might decide she was blameless, or partly to blame, 
but not wholly at fault. Thats her strongly-held opinion, but UKI thought otherwise. In any 
event, the only way Ms Us driving record would be unaffected would be if the other driver 
were found to be wholly at fault. In that case, UKI could recover all its outlay from the other 
insurer. UKI didnt think that outcome was at all likely, given the evidence. I think that was 
fair enough in the circumstances. Even if Ms U were only to be held partly at fault, her NCD 
and future premiums would still be affected, as shed have a fault claim on her record. 
Taking everything into account, I think UKI exercised its discretion reasonably, after 
considering all the evidence. It wasnt obliged to start court proceedings, as Ms U would 
have liked (although it seems the other insurer later did so). As I dont think Ms U has shown 
that UKI acted unreasonably, I cant uphold her complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman