DRN-2667826
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. has turned down a personal accident claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2016, Mrs P took out a travel insurance policy through a broker to cover a cruise 
holiday she was taking in April 2017. The policy was underwritten by Mapfre.
Unfortunately, while Mrs P was disembarking from the cruise ship, she suffered a fall and 
sustained injuries. Mrs P didnt fully recover from her injuries. Her mobility was seriously 
affected; she had to use a walking aid and she had to rely on family support, despite 
previously being independent. So in June 2018, Mrs P made a claim for permanent total 
disablement (PTD) under the personal accident section of her policy.
Initially, Mapfre turned down Mrs Ps claim because it didnt think she was permanently and 
totally disabled. Miss P disagreed with Mapfres decision. It reconsidered the claim and 
turned it down again. It said that as she was over 75 years old, there was no PTD cover 
available under the policy.
Mrs P was unhappy with Mapfres decision and Miss P complained on her behalf. They 
didnt think it was fair for Mapfre to find a second reason not to pay the claim. So Miss P 
asked us to look into Mrs Ps complaint.
Our investigator thought it was fair for Mapfre to turn down the claim. Thats because the 
policy simply doesnt cover PTD for policyholders over 75 years of age. But she thought that 
it shouldve been clear to Mapfre at the outset that her claim wouldnt be covered, given it 
was aware of her age. So she felt Mapfre hadnt handled Miss Ps claim promptly and fairly. 
She recommended that Mapfre should pay Mrs P £100 compensation to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused her.
Mapfre accepted the investigators findings. But Miss P didnt. She sent a detailed response 
to the investigators assessment which Ive summarised.
Miss P said that when Mapfre first received the claim form, it made untrue statements about 
Mrs Ps health. It initially turned down the claim based on the fact it didnt think Mrs P had 
met its definition of PTD. It caused Mrs P a great deal of upset and distress, given the impact 
her accident had had on her. It had had all the relevant personal information about Mrs P, 
but it didnt identify the relevance of her age until it was pointed out. She felt the investigator 
accepted that Mapfre hadnt handled the claim fairly, but it wasnt been properly held to 
account. She set out a list of information shed like Mapfre to provide, including what 
procedural and practice changes would take place; areas where it required improvement; an
acknowledgement of its failings etc. She considered the recommendation from the
investigator showed Mapfre would operate in the same way and isnt proportionate to
Mapfres failings and is unfair and unsuitable. She would like me to set out my expectations 
of Mapfre and take enforcement action if it doesnt comply. Mapfre should accept the claim 
and it should pay a higher amount of compensation.
I issued my provisional decision on 26 January 2021, together with a separate provisional 
decision about the sale of Mrs Ps policy by a broker. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I planned to partly uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I said:
Its important that I explain our role. Were not the industry regulator and we have no power 
to tell a financial business how it should operate or to change its processes and procedures. 
We consider individual complaints brought by consumers about a financial business to 
decide whether that business has done something wrong which it needs to put right.
The relevant regulators rules say that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. 
And it mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the terms of Mrs 
Ps policy and the circumstances of the claim to decide whether I think Mapfre treated Mrs P 
fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mrs Ps policy. The personal accident section of the
contract includes a benefit of £25,000 if a policyholder becomes permanently and totally 
disabled. However, the policy states:
If you are aged under 16 or over 75 at the time of the accident the death benefit will be 
limited to funeral and other expenses up to £1,500 and the permanent total disablement 
benefit will not apply. (Bold is my emphasis.)
Mrs P was aged over 75 years old at the time of her accident. So despite my natural
sympathy with her position, given its clear the accident has had a real impact on her day to 
day life, I simply dont think her claim is covered by the policy terms.
However, like the investigator, I think the fact that Mrs P wasnt eligible for PTD benefit 
shouldve been clear to Mapfre from the point it received her claim form. So it wouldve been 
reasonable and appropriate for it to tell Mrs P why it couldnt pay her claim very on early on.
It didnt do so though. Instead it initially turned down the claim because it didnt think Mrs P 
had shown shed suffered PTD. I dont doubt that this wouldve been very disappointing and 
upsetting for Mrs P. She also unnecessarily obtained further medical evidence to support her 
claim, which put her to additional trouble and upset. So I dont think Mapfre handled Mrs Ps 
claim fairly. I agree with our investigator that its reasonable for Mapfre to pay Mrs P 
compensation to reflect the additional distress and inconvenience she was caused as a 
result of Mapfres initial oversight. And I also think an award of £100 fairly takes into account 
the impact the unnecessary prolonging of the claim between June and September 2018 had 
on Mrs P.
I appreciate Miss P feels strongly that I shouldnt allow Mapfre to rely on the PTD age
exclusion and that it should reassess the claim in light of the further medical evidence Mrs 
Ps GP provided. But I dont think this would be a fair or reasonable thing for me to direct 
Mapfre to do. Mrs Ps claim simply isnt covered by the terms of her policy and while its 
unfortunate the reason why wasnt explained to her in June 2018; it remains the case that 
the policy terms form the contract between Mrs P and Mapfre. These make clear that PTD 
cover isnt available to policyholders aged over 75.
Overall, Ive decided it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mrs Ps claim. But I dont think it 
handled the claims process fairly and I think it put Mrs P to further trouble and
inconvenience. So I currently think it must pay Mrs P compensation of £100. I was pleased 
to note that Mapfre has already agreed to pay this amount.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider.Mapfre didnt respond within the deadline I gave.
Miss P disagreed with my provisional findings. She sent in a detailed letter, a further letter 
and recorded a voicemail message, which I can confirm I listened to. Ive summarised the 
points Miss P has raised:
The medical evidence showing that Mrs P had suffered permanent total disablement 
as a result of her injury had been enclosed with the original claim form. Mapfre had 
known Mrs Ps age and accepted the claim;
Mapfre had no reason to think that Mrs P hadnt suffered PTD  12 months had 
passed since the accident and the GP had confirmed Mrs P was PTD;
The claim had been made in good faith and Mapfre had turned it down unreasonably. 
It wouldve been reasonable for it to ask Mrs P for more information instead of simply 
turning down the claim  this caused immense upset;
Its unreasonable for an insurer to rely on false statements and to ask for more 
information before reaching a decision to turn down a claim;
Mapfre didnt consider the claim correctly or in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Its reasonable to expect Mapfre to now settle the claim at this point;
Given the time taken, distress and inconvenience and the serious nature of how 
Mapfre handled the claim; Miss P feels there should be a significant increase to the 
compensation offer to recognise the impact that the matter has had on her and Mrs 
P. They feel that if Mapfre isnt held to account, it will continue to dismiss claims as it 
did with Mrs Ps;
Miss P also queried why I hadnt made other potential redress awards against Mapfre 
that I have the power to make.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I sympathise with Mrs Ps position, I still think the fair outcome to this 
complaint is for Mapfre to pay Mrs P £100 compensation.
First, Id like to thank Miss P for her detailed response to my provisional decision. While Ive 
summarised the points she made, Ive carefully considered her further representations. I 
havent addressed each and every point shes made. Instead Ive focused on what I consider 
to be the key issues. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the terms of Mrs Ps policy, which form the basis of 
her contract with Mapfre, clearly state that policyholders over the age of 75 years arent 
eligible for PTD. At the time of the claim, Mrs P was over 75 years old. So while I sympathise 
with Mrs P because I appreciate that her injuries have had a real impact on her life, she 
simply isnt eligible for settlement under this section of the policy. This means Im still 
satisfied that it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mrs Ps claim, even though I accept the 
claim was made in good faith.
I also explained in my provisional findings that I think it shouldve been clear to Mapfre at the 
point Mrs P made her claim that she wasnt eligible for PTD benefit. This means that I dont 
think it handled the claim promptly or fairly and it put Mrs P to unnecessary inconvenience in 
challenging the original claims decision.  I dont agree that this means I should direct Mapfre 
to settle the claim though. I think that would be a disproportionate award and one that 
wouldnt be fair or appropriate. And while Mapfre made a clear error by not telling Mrs P 
upfront that she wasnt eligible for PTD benefit, I think it was initially entitled to weigh up the medical evidence it had when deciding whether or not to accept the claim, or how to 
progress it. 
Miss P feels strongly that Mapfres offer of £100 compensation isnt enough. Shes asked me 
to explain how I reached this figure. Firstly, while Im conscious that Miss P has acted as Mrs 
Ps representative throughout and has corresponded with Mapfre at some length, she isnt a 
party to Mrs Ps contract with Mapfre. So Im only awarding compensation for the trouble and 
upset I think Mrs P has suffered. I make no award for Miss Ps time or inconvenience. Given 
much of the claims correspondence has been with Miss P, while I accept Mrs P will have 
likely been very disappointed when she learned that she wasnt eligible for benefit, I think 
£100 is a fair award for the impact this had on her. Ive also explained above that were not 
the industry regulator and so I have no power to make awards which are designed to punish 
or fine a business.
Where I think a financial business has done something wrong which it needs to put right, Im 
able to decide what I think the appropriate redress should be. In this case, Mapfre has 
recognised it didnt handle Mrs Ps claim as well as it shouldve done and agreed to pay 
£100 for the impact this had on her. I remain satisfied that this is an appropriate award in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, while I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, Ive decided £100 
compensation is a fair award to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
to pay Mrs P £100 for her distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman