DRN-4010872
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) irresponsibly 
granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
VWFS. Mr M was required to make 36 monthly repayments of around £180. He paid a 
deposit of £4,678.50. The agreement also had a final optional payment of £6,502.50 if he 
wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the 
agreement was around £17,479.45.
The agreement was settled by Mr M in February 2022. 
Mr M says that VWFS didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and has had an adverse impact on his 
financial situation. VWFS didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment 
which included credit scoring to ensure the agreement was affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought VWFS didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the agreement placed an unfair burden on him and had 
questions been asked about his circumstances, VWFS would have realised the agreement 
wasnt affordable.
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, VWFS carried out a credit check to see if the agreement was 
affordable to Mr M. This didnt raise concerns with VWFS. I can see that Mr M was paying 
£273 per month towards a five year personal loan and owed around £2,500 on a credit 
card. Ive also seen that on his application for the finance Mr M stated he was a property 
owner but I havent seen evidence that Mr M was paying a mortgage. 
VWFS says it carried out a credit check and also an affordability check that were based 
on the income details Mr M had provided at the time. However, I cant see what steps 
VWFS took to check or verify Mr Ms income and monthly spending. I think it would be 
both reasonable and proportionate to carry out better checks about Mr Ms financial 
situation before providing the new agreement to ensure that it was sustainably affordable 
for him.
I also cannot say what Mr M would have disclosed had he been asked about his income. I 
dont think VWFS needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, 
Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in the available bank 
statements that Mr M has provided from the three months leading up to the agreement. 
Ive also looked at the copy payslips he sent in. 
The bank statements show some details about of Mr Ms existing credit commitments and 
what appear to be occasional payments to a savings account. It also shows that he was 
making additional voluntary payments to his ongoing personal loan from time to time. 
Broadly speaking, Mr M appears to have been managing his financial situation well and 
wasnt making use of his overdraft. Although I can see various payments in, Ive not been 
able to specifically identity these as employment income from the job details Mr M gave on 
his agreement application. 
Mr M says he was earning around £15,000 gross income. The copy payslips he sent us 
from 2018 when he was employed by an agency, prior to being transferred across to being 
a permanent employee, show that Mr M was getting net weekly pay of around £300, which 
is consistent with the figure for gross annual income. So, whilst I cant say what Mr M 
would have said if asked about his income, I think it reasonable to accept that had further 
questions been asked, VWFS would have given an average weekly earnings amount of 
around that figure at the time.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think the agreement was likely to have been 
affordable to Mr M. So, while I note the comments that Mr M has made, I find it more 
likely than not that had further checks taken place VWFS would have still found the 
agreement to be affordable, having noted his existing credit commitments. For this 
reason, Im not persuaded that VWFS acted unfairly in approving the finance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman