DRN-4338378
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent the loss they 
suffered when they sent money to a Barclays account as the result of an investment scam.
The loss came from a joint account, but for ease of reading Ill mostly just refer to Mr M 
where I mean both him and Mrs M. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr M says he fell victim to an investment scam. He made a payment, by transferring a sum 
of £5,000 from his joint account with his own bank to an account held with Barclays. At the 
time Mr M believed he was investing in a one-year bond that would return 3.9% interest. He 
believed this investment to be with a firm H who he was told were regulated outside the UK. 
But when H stopped responding to him shortly after the investment, he realised it may have 
been a scam. 
  
Mr M reported this to his own bank, who contacted Barclays, but no funds remained that 
could be returned. 
Mr M was unhappy with Barclays as the recipient bank and asked that they refund his loss.
Barclays issued their final response and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M remained 
unhappy, so one of our Investigators looked into things. She concluded that she couldnt ask 
Barclays to do anything further to resolve the complaint. In summary she didnt think there 
were failures by Barclays in relation to either the opening or the monitoring of the account. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate the outcome will be 
disappointing for Mr M, and Im genuinely sorry to hear about his loss, but I cant fairly and 
reasonably ask Barclays to refund this. Ill explain why.
I can see Mr M feels that Barclays should refund his loss and feels its unfair that the bank is 
unwilling to do so. But I want to be clear that unwittingly falling victim to a scam doesnt 
entitle the victim (here Mr M) to a refund from the bank that received their money. In these 
circumstances I could only direct Barclays to reimburse Mr M for his loss if Im satisfied they 
did something wrong where it would be fair and reasonable to direct them to provide a 
refund. 
When considering complaints of this nature, I can understand why, with the benefit of 
hindsight, its sometimes easy to say the recipient bank ought to have identified the activity 
on the account as fraud and shouldve done more to prevent the loss, or it couldve done 
more to assist in the recovery of the funds upon receipt of notification of fraud. However, I 
must be clear, when deciding this complaint, I need to think about what Barclays knew at the 
time  not what is known today. And where it is supposed (as is the case here) that Barclays 
didnt do enough. My role is to look into the individual circumstances of the case and decide 
(within my jurisdiction to consider this complaint), based on what I have seen, whether they 
could have fairly and reasonably done more.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied Barclays carried out appropriate checks and identified 
the recipient accountholder (in line with its regulatory obligations) when opening the account. 
So, it follows that I dont think there is any reason, based on the opening of the account, to 
ask Barclays to do more here.
  
Ive reviewed the account statements since account opening. And I dont think Barclays 
should have done anything differently or that they failed in such a way that would have 
prevented Mr Ms loss. So, I dont think there have been any failings by Barclays regarding 
the monitoring of the recipient account, or that they missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Ms 
loss in this way either.
Im also satisfied that Barclays responded appropriately when they received notification of 
fraud from Mr Ms bank. Unfortunately, however, by the time Barclays had been told that 
Mr Ms payment had been made as a result of a scam, Mr Ms funds had already left the 
recipient account. So I dont think there were any failings that prevented Mr M recovering his 
money. 
Mr M says that shortly after his payment, the government introduced legislation which made 
banks more responsible for ensuring fraudulent actions did not take place. He says this adds 
to his opinion that Barclays should have been more pro-active in identifying the fraudsters. 
Ive considered this, and whilst Mr M didnt specify the legislation he was referring to, the 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams are longstanding and Barclays were already 
obliged to look out for potentially fraudulent activity at the time relevant to this complaint. But 
as Ive mentioned above, I dont think the account activity at the time was suspicious or so 
indicative of potential fraud where its reasonable to have expected Barclays to have done 
more.
Mr M has also pointed out that he and Mrs M have opened bank accounts and that the 
process is generally thorough and requires documentary evidence and proof of identity. So, 
he questions why the perpetrator(s) cant be traced and why Action Fraud have told him 
there is no realistic prospect of a successful prosecution. I cant comment on the 
investigation by the Police / Action Fraud. Im aware that the decisions they take as to 
whether to pursue an investigation will often depend on a range of factors. But I remain 
satisfied that Barclays acted appropriately when opening the account in question. Im also 
confident that Barclays would co-operate fully and share any relevant information with the 
police, upon a request from them to do so. 
As I said above, Im sorry to hear of the loss Mr and Mrs M have suffered and I accept 
theyve been victims of a scam. But as I dont think Barclays did anything wrong that caused 
or contributed to this loss (or hindered its recovery), Im not going to require them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman