DRN-2952418
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a loan they have with Topaz Finance Limited trading as 
Heliodor Mortgages. They dont believe the amount of arrears they were told were 
associated with the loan was correct and are unhappy about the information credit reference 
agencies were given.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S loan went into arrears in late 2008 due to missed payments. As they were in 
financial difficulties, Heliodor agreed that they could make token payments of £1 per month 
between July 2009 and August 2011.
In 2011 Mr and Mrs S situation improved, and they returned to making their full contractual 
monthly payments (CMP). When the interest rates dropped in December 2016, the 
contractual payment reduced, but Mr and Mrs S maintained the existing level of payment. 
This meant that an amount went to reducing the arrears balance on the account.
In 2019 Heliodor asked Mr and Mrs S to start paying more toward the arrears, charges and 
interest balance. They agreed to do so and a payment arrangement started in April 2019, but 
the arrangement was broken when Mr and Mrs S missed the payment due in December 
2019. 
Mr and Mrs S made their complaint to Heliodor in early 2020. It responded, but it didnt 
uphold the complaint. It explained how the arrears had accrued and detailed what payments 
Mr and Mrs S had made. It said it couldnt evidence the arrears balance being wrong.
The complaint was referred to this service where one of my ombudsman colleagues looked 
at the matter of our jurisdiction. She concluded that the parts of the complaint relating to the 
amount of arrears that built up until 2011, the reporting of the arrears on their credit files and 
the fact the arrears didnt start to reduce until 2016, fell outside our jurisdiction. The only part 
of the complaint she concluded we could consider was about the account management, 
including credit file reporting, since December 2016, when the arrears began being repaid.
In response, Mr and Mrs S suggested that Heliodor altered their credit file from 2016 to show 
all payments were made on time. they said they felt aggrieved that theyd had to pay higher 
rates of interest throughout that time, however, they would accept a change to their credit file 
to resolve the complaint in a timely manner.
Our investigator considered the management of Mr and Mrs S loan form December 2016. 
He explained that a lender was required to report the status of a loan to credit reference 
agencies accurately. Where arrears existed or payment arrangements were agreed, they 
would always be reported to credit reference agencies and that is how it should be. In 
relation to the payments that had been made since December 2016 he didnt think the lender 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusion. They said that what this service 
needed to consider was their actions; theyd complained to Heliodor as soon as they found 
out that ten years worth of consecutive payments were being deemed as late payments. 
They had then paid off all the arrears by January 2021, which they only did because they 
hadnt previously known the payments were being classed as late. They said that throughout 
they felt that many assumptions had been made about what they should have known. They 
said it was absolutely ridiculous that their credit files look as they do when theyve made the 
correct payments for 12 years and they couldnt disagree more strongly with the 
investigators conclusions.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered our jurisdiction to consider this complaint, as we do at all stages of a 
complaint. I agree with my ombudsman colleague that we can only consider the complaint 
about the account management and credit file reporting from December 2016. I note that 
Mr and Mrs S want what has been recorded on their credit file from the outset looked at, but 
I will only be commenting on the account management from December 2016.
I would also comment that if Mr and Mrs S want to complain about not having been told 
about the transfer of their loan from the original lender to Heliodor, they would need to raise 
it as a separate matter. A financial business is entitled to the opportunity to respond to a 
complaint before this service becomes involved. As such, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
comment on that matter in this decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs S, where a lender reports to credit reference 
agencies (as most do), it is required to ensure that the information it gives about the account 
is factually correct, but it cant provide context. Where an account is in arrears, the lender will 
report this and confirmed how many multiples of the CMP the arrears amount to. If there is 
an agreement between the lender and borrower in place about what will be paid, be that 
more or less than the amount of the CMP, that will also be registered on the credit file. 
Having such arrangements reported isnt necessarily detrimental to the customer, as some 
businesses who use credit reports look more positively on a report of arrears where an 
arrangement is in place. 
Mr and Mrs S loan was in arrears in December 2016 and, although the amount of arrears 
reduced, it remained in arrears when the complaint was referred to this service. So Heliodor 
wasnt wrong to report those arrears or the amount of them. I know that Mr and Mrs S dont 
think its fair that adverse data was recorded on their credit file after paying the CMP or more 
for so many years. I can understand what they are saying, but as I have explained above, 
the lender is required to report an accurate picture of the loan and that includes the fact that 
its in arrears, even if the amount of the arrears is reducing.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman