DRN-3034974
The complaint and background
Mr H complains about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made on his legal 
expenses insurance. 
Some time ago, Mr H was involved in an accident. He used his legal expenses insurance to 
claim against a third party in relation to his injuries. The claim went on for seven years and 
has now been settled in Mr Hs favour. But hes unhappy with the customer service provided 
during a particular phone call he had with UK I in April 2021. 
UK I listened to the call and noted that Mr H simply asked whether a joint settlement meeting 
would be funded. A difficult conversation followed whereby the call handler, who hadnt been 
involved in the case before, noted the costs already incurred exceeded the indemnity limit, 
which Mr H found distressing. The handler said this had been flagged with Mr Hs solicitors.
The person who reviewed the call thought someone should simply have rung Mr Hs solicitor 
to discuss things. If they had, theyd have discovered that the indemnity limit hadnt yet been 
exhausted, as certain costs had been provided for under a conditional fee agreement. UK I 
accepted it had caused Mr H avoidable distress, and offered to pay him £100 compensation.
After the call, Mr H spoke with his solicitors who confirmed funding for the joint settlement 
meeting had now been agreed. Mr H said the call nevertheless impacted his state of mind, 
and he therefore accepted an offer during the meeting, instead of pushing for an increased 
settlement, as he no longer wanted to deal with the claim. He thinks UK I should increase its 
compensation offer to £1,000. 
Our investigator thought £100 compensation was fair. But Mr H disagreed. Ive been asked 
to reach a final decision. Mr H said hed been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to bear the context of the call in mind. Mr H was in the final stages of a 
protracted legal claim that had gone on for seven years. The subject matter of the 
claim meant funding to achieve the best possible outcome was very important to him; 
The call also offers some useful insight into Mr Hs level of vulnerability at the time. 
UK I would already have been aware of his physical injuries and the length of time 
the legal claim had been ongoing. And I note that, upon hearing the joint settlement 
meeting might not be funded, Mr H said he might not be here tomorrow. This was 
one of a few comments he made which indicate that the impact of the accident and 
the ongoing claim had caused Mr H to consider ending his life;
The call handler observed during the call that the actual claim handler had already 
been in touch with Mr Hs solicitors with some questions about the joint settlement 
meeting, and the ongoing cost of the claim more generally. I agree the call handler 
should simply have arranged for the claim handler to follow this up with the solicitors. 
Instead, they spent an hour warning Mr H of the potential financial implications of the 
indemnity limit having been exhausted, and of not accepting a reasonable settlement 
offer, in a manner which clearly exacerbated his distress at an already difficult time. 
Had UK I spoken to the solicitors first, this could have been avoided;
That being said, a few hours later, the solicitors were able to clarify for Mr H that 
further funding for the claim, including the joint settlement meeting, was still available. 
So, while Mr H was clearly very distressed by the call (I understand he was in tears) 
his solicitors were able to allay his concerns very quickly afterwards, before the joint 
settlement meeting went ahead. In deciding what level of compensation would be fair 
Ive kept in mind that any distress caused by the misunderstanding that the indemnity 
limit had been exhausted, although severe, didnt last more than a few hours;
I also need to bear in mind that UK I isnt responsible for any ongoing distress Mr H 
was experiencing due to the accident and associated legal claim. I can only direct it 
to compensate Mr H for the extent to which it made things worse than they otherwise 
might have been. I appreciate Mr H has talked about sleepless nights and the impact 
on his family during this period, which he says added to his distress. But, as above, 
any misunderstanding about the indemnity limit was corrected within a few hours. 
I recognise Mr H remained upset about how he was spoken to, but UK I apologised 
to Mr H for that within a few days of the call; 
I dont feel theres evidence to support that, but for what happened during the call, 
Mr H would have achieved a higher settlement. Mr H was represented by solicitors 
and a barrister in the meeting. I understand Mr H asked for a higher settlement, but 
when the other side indicated they felt it was too high, he told his representatives to 
accept what the other side was offering, whereas he might otherwise have pressed 
the issue. But the solicitors have said that Mr B was advised to accept the offer, and 
that it was consistent with the value placed on the claim by the barrister;
However, in considering Mr Hs non-financial loss, Ive kept in mind the importance of 
the claim to him, his health and frame of mind at the time of the call, and the severity 
of the distress he experienced (albeit over a short period of time). Having done so, 
Im not satisfied £100 is a sufficient reflection of the impact of UK Is handling of the 
call on Mr H. I direct it to pay Mr H £200 compensation. 
My final decision
I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £200 compensation. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 December 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman