DRN-3935339
The complaint
Mr V has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In 2021, Mr V received two payments around the same time  one for about £2,100, and the 
other for about £4,300. Both were reported as being acquired by fraud. A third customer also 
reported that someone had attempted to defraud them into paying Mr V money, though they 
had not gone through with it.
Mr V agreed to return the £2,100, saying he didnt know where it had come from. But he said 
the £4,300 was from a family member hed lent money to. He later clarified it was actually a 
family members boyfriend.
Mr V was unable to provide any evidence he was entitled to the funds. He said hed lent the 
money in cash, which hed received from gifts over the years, so he had no evidence of 
receiving or withdrawing the cash or giving it to the sender. He trusted the sender so much 
that hed made no written agreement for the lending. Hed only ever spoken to the sender on 
the phone and so had no message history of any kind. He hadnt chased the money in any 
written form at any point. Hed had a falling out with the sender and they were no longer in 
contact, so he couldnt get any evidence from them now. He also had no evidence of this 
breakdown of their relationship. He hadnt told his family member about the lending and 
theyd since broken up with the boyfriend and lost contact, so he couldnt get any evidence 
from them either. He was unable to explain why the payment had come from a company 
rather than a personal account, or why it was a payment for tax, or why the sending bank 
reported it as fraudulent, or why his account was the destination for other fraudulent funds.
HSBC closed Mr Vs account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr V 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, HSBC were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr V had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think HSBC did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill 
explain why.
HSBC received official fraud reports from other institutions, stating that Mr V had received 
the proceeds of fraud. Another customer also reported that a scammer had tried to trick 
them into sending Mr V money around the same time. HSBC were entitled to rely on these 
multiple reports. I think that in this case, they had more than just a suspicion or concern.
Mr V has not provided any evidence whatsoever that he was entitled to these funds. Mr V 
sent in a receipt for the payment of around £4,300, which he felt was proof he was entitled to 
the money. But that receipt just shows that he received the fraudulent funds. It does not 
evidence that he was due the money in any way. 
Im afraid that what Mr V has told us is neither likely nor plausible. For example, it is simply 
not credible that he would have absolutely no messages with someone he lent thousands of 
pounds to, nor any history of chasing such a large sum. Its not credible that he would trust 
this person enough to lend them substantial amounts with no written agreement and no 
secure payment method, but that he would also have no evidence he actually knew them, no 
recorded history of ever contacting them, and that he would be completely unable to contact 
them now. Its not likely theyd only keep in touch by phone when they were in opposite time 
zones with international call rates. Mr V does not have a history of dealing in large amounts 
of cash. It would be unusual to keep such large sums of cash over the years and never 
deposit or spend them in any recorded way, and such a large sum is not very likely to have 
come from unreceipted gifts.
Realistically, if Mr V had lent such a large sum of money to a family member (as he told 
HSBC) or to a family members partner (as he told our service) then there would be a large 
variety of easy-to-obtain evidence that he could provide to show this. Such as texts, emails, 
social media messages and so on discussing the lending or chasing repayment, evidence of 
sending or withdrawing the money, an agreement, discussions with related parties, and so 
on. But he has provided no evidence at all, and the payment was reported as fraudulent. The 
most likely reason for this is that Mr V knowingly and willingly received fraudulent funds. 
Further, the £4,300 came from a company, not a personal account. That is not consistent 
with someone repaying a personal debt. And it was intended as a payment for tax, not a 
debt repayment. Again, that does not fit with Mr Vs testimony. But it does fit very well with 
the multiple reports that Mr V was receiving payments through fraudulent deception.
Around the same time as this £4,300 payment, Mr V received other fraudulent funds, and 
another customer was almost defrauded into sending Mr V money. I acknowledge that Mr V 
voluntarily returned the £2,100. But it is not likely or plausible that it was a mere coincidence 
or mistake that Mr V was the intended recipient for at least three sets of fraudulent funds 
around the same time. There would be no good reason for a fraudster to pay their proceeds 
of crime to Mr V unless Mr V was involved. Indeed, Mr V appears to have been the main  if 
not the sole  intended beneficiary of these incidents of fraud.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr V was 
knowingly and willingly receiving the proceeds of fraud.In summary, Mr V received  or attempted to receive  multiple sets of fraudulent funds, 
which were confirmed as fraudulent from multiple sources. Hes not provided any evidence 
of entitlement to the £4,300 he claims was his, even when such evidence should realistically 
be straightforward to get. And what hes told us is both unlikely and implausible. So I think it 
was fair for HSBC to register the appropriate marker at CIFAS. It follows that it was also fair 
for them to close his account, which they were allowed to do under the terms. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr V to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman