DRN-3436518
The complaint
Mr B and Miss P complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on 
their breakdown insurance policy.
Where I refer to Acromas or the insurer, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I 
hold Acromas responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from 15 July 2021, Mr B and Miss P took out breakdown cover, including Parts 
and Garage cover. 
On 12 November 2021, Mr B and Miss Ps vehicle had a loss of power. A local garage 
diagnosed an issue with the crossover pipe. 
On about 22 November 2021, a second garage told Acromas that the crossover pipe was 
cracked.
Acromas declined to pay for the repair, saying that policy didnt cover the exhaust system 
including the crossover pipe.
Mr B and Miss P complained to Acromas that it should cover the repair.
By a final response dated late November 2021, Acromas turned down the complaint. Mr B 
and Miss P brought their complaint to us in early December 2021. They said the repair had 
cost them about £1,175.00 and that the insurer should contribute £500.00.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
insurer had acted fairly as the policy didnt cover the repairs.
Mr B and Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr B says, in summary, that:
It is the crossover pipe that feeds the turbo which, on a big vehicle, is really needed 
to propel it forward. Without feeding the turbo adequately with exhaust gases, it does 
not function as it should and as a consequence there is a marked loss in both power 
and performance.
The crossover pipe is therefore more an integral part of the propulsion system rather 
than the exhaust system. A blown crossover pipe would impact performance, 
however a not fully functioning turbo fed by the crossover pipe would impact that 
performance more, which it did. 
The turbo was impacted by the crossover pipes lack of functionality. Therefore the 
crossover pipe should be considered part of the propulsion system more than part of 
the exhaust system.
Driving it when the crossover went, the biggest issue was the turbo not functioning 
properly. 
Convention and manuals dictate this is an exhaust issue, but convention is not 
always right and the crossover pipe feeding the turbo makes it more integral to the 
propulsion of the vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Parts and Garage cover was for repair following a breakdown. 
It covered Mr B and Miss Ps vehicle by reference to its registration (which included the 
numbers 57). From what Ive seen, that vehicle was a large sports utility vehicle with a 
diesel engine assisted by a turbo.
Cover was limited to £535.00 per claim and subject to an excess of £35.00.
The policy terms contained a list of Parts not covered including exhaust systems.
The insurance policy information document highlighted that exclusion as follows:
Are there any restrictions on cover?

Costs for repairs to; clutch friction plate, fuel particulate filters, brake pads, brake 
discs, brake drums, brake shoes, exhaust systems
So Im satisfied that it was clear that the policy didnt cover exhaust systems.
I accept that Mr Bs experience was that the vehicle suffered a loss of power. And Ive noted 
that the patrolman mentioned the turbo.
From the call recording on 15 November 2021, I consider that Acromas couldve been 
clearer that the policy wouldnt cover the crossover pipe. But I dont find that this makes it fair 
and reasonable to direct Acromas to contribute to the cost of repair, or to pay compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
As I understand it, the crossover pipe contains and regulates exhaust gases. So Mr B rightly 
acknowledges that the crossover pipe is part of the exhaust system. 
I accept that the crossover pipe also drives the turbo. But I consider that the crossover pipe 
is primarily part of the exhaust system.  
I consider that the fact that the crossover pipe is part of the exhaust system made it fair and 
reasonable for Acromas to decline to pay for its repair or replacement. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Acromas to contribute to the cost of repair, or to pay compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Acromas Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman