DRN-2194692
The complaint
Mr W is director of a company that Ill refer to as G. Hes complained on Gs behalf that 
Amtrust Europe Limited turned down a claim he made on his legal expenses insurance. 
For ease of reading, reference to Amtrust includes its agent.
What happened
G has a legal expenses policy that started on 26 August 2018. In July 2019 Mr W contacted 
Amtrust to claim on the policy, after a dispute had arisen between G and a company Ill refer 
to as Y, over an invoice. 
G has a contract with Y, for website design, maintenance and advertisement. Mr W called Y 
on 26 September 2018 to query the invoices hed received and, as he hadnt received 
answers by 26 October 2018, he got in touch with Y to make a complaint and change 
provider. In November 2018, Mr W found that Y had taken down his website, which he said 
harmed his business. Mr W continued to try to resolve things with Y before claiming on his 
policy.
Amtrust turned down Gs claim, as it said the policy had an exclusion for any claims arising 
from or relating to disputes about internet services that had been tailored to the business.  
Mr W complained to Amtrust and said his claim wasnt about the tailoring of the internet 
service, but about the taking down of the website, not handling the complaint, not 
acknowledging the notice given, not providing settlement information and not contacting him. 
Amtrust said the contract was for tailored website design and advertisement so was tailored 
to G. It said if G hadnt had a contract with Y for tailored website and advertisement he 
wouldnt have a dispute with Y about it taking down the website. Amtrust also said the 
invoices Mr W had queried with Y were from before the policy started, which was another 
reason why the claim wouldnt be covered, as he should have known about the issues 
before the start of the policy.
Mr W brought the complaint to us. He said the term about internet services was open to 
interpretation and that the way Amtrust had interpreted it wasnt the way it was intended.    
Mr W thought the term was intended to apply to disputes over the tailored part of the internet 
service and not other parts of the service. He said his claim to Amtrust was about Y having 
no complaints procedure. 
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint and thought Amtrust had fairly turned down their 
claim because he found that the dispute arose from a tailored internet service. However, he 
didnt think Mr W knew about the dispute before the policy started. So, he asked Amtrust to 
apologise for this. 
Amtrust accepted this but Mr W didnt agree. He thought the term Amtrust had relied on to 
decline the claim was ambiguous and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require to Amtrust to cover Gs claim and Ill now explain 
why.
The terms and conditions of Gs policy say Amtrust will cover:
11.13 Contract & Debt Recovery
A breach or alleged breach of an agreement or alleged agreement which has been entered 
into by or on behalf of the Insured relating to the purchase, hire, hire purchase, lease, 
servicing, maintenance, testing, sale or provision of goods or services, provided that if the 
Insured is claiming for an undisputed debt they have exhausted their normal credit control 
procedures.
The policy then sets out exceptions to this term:
Exceptions to 11.13
Any claim arising from or relating to:
[...]
5. computer hardware, software, Internet services or systems which
(a) have been supplied by the Insured or
(b) have been tailored to the Insured's requirements;
Amtrust said the claim is arising from or relating to internet services tailored to Gs 
requirements. However, Mr W said the claim is relating to Ys service, so its not relevant that 
the internet service was tailored.
I can see that G entered into an agreement with Y for website design, maintenance and 
advertisement. I think this means the internet service was tailored to G, as Y created content 
specifically for G. Ive thought carefully about the wording of this term and I think the key 
phrase here is that the claim cant be arising from or relating to the internet service. While I 
accept that Gs claim was around the service Y provided, and so not about the tailored 
content, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that the service and resulting claim arose 
from or related to that content. I say that because it was the tailored internet service that 
formed the basis of the agreement between G and Y. And without that tailored service, G 
wouldnt have needed the subsequent communication with Y that theyre complaining about. 
I appreciate Mr W thinks this term is ambiguous but when using the ordinary, everyday 
meaning of the words arising from or relating to, Im satisfied its clear that this means the 
policy doesnt cover anything that happened as a consequence of the tailored internet 
service. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy when turning down Gs claim. 
Mr W is also unhappy that Amtrust said he should have known there were issues with the 
invoices before the policy was taken out. He felt this insinuated that he was a crook. The 
policy started in August 2018 and it seems the dispute arose after Mr W tried to get in touch 
with Y in September 2018. Amtrust hasnt provided me with anything to persuade me its 
most likely Mr W was aware of issues prior to the policy starting. However, for the reasons 
set out above, this doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the claim. I can see our investigator asked Amtrust to apologise to G for this. I feel an apology should 
be genuine, so Im not going to direct Amtrust to apologise, however I can see it agreed with 
our investigators recommendation. 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr W but Im not going to ask 
Amtrust to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman