DRN-3026019
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) unfairly declined his 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) relating to a holiday 
product he purchased in 2016.
What happened
In 2016, a Spanish company (Company A) sold Mr A and his wife a 10 year online 
membership to a holiday booking website provided by a different company (Company B), 
during a face-to-face meeting abroad. The total cost of the online membership was £4,950. 
Mr A paid a £1,000.50 deposit using his Yorkshire Bank credit card. Company A also 
promised them a number of holiday vouchers during the sale.
Mr A said Company A told them during the sale that they could get holidays, including flights, 
anywhere in the world via their online membership with Company B. However, Mr A said 
they were never able to use the product and Company Bs website closed down in 2017. 
Mr A feels the package was badly mis-sold to them from start to finish.
In 2018 Mr As representative raised a claim with Yorkshire Bank under section 75 of the 
CCA, because Mr A used his Yorkshire Bank credit card to pay the £1,000.50 deposit for the 
membership. He believes Yorkshire Bank should refund him the full amount he paid.
In response, Yorkshire Bank said Mr A didnt have a valid section 75 claim because the 
required debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) arrangement didnt exist. They considered 
Company A to be the relevant supplier in this case. And they said Mr A didnt pay Company 
A using his Yorkshire Bank credit card  he paid Company B directly instead. They said this 
breaks the required DCS chain unless there is a link between the two companies. So, they 
said unless Mr A could provide evidence to show that the two companies are Associates as 
defined by section 184 of the CCA, they wouldnt consider his section 75 claim. 
Mr As representative argued that Company A were agents of Company B and asked 
Yorkshire Bank to reconsider. But Yorkshire Bank didnt change their position. Unhappy with 
their response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. His representative believes Mr A 
has a valid claim because Company B closed down and Mr A is unable to use their services 
to book holidays.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. Our investigator thought that there were 
two agreements in place at the time of sale: one with Company A to provide Mr A with a 
number of holiday vouchers  and one with Company B directly, to provide Mr A with a 10 
year membership to its website. Overall, he said Mr As claim is that he couldnt use the 
online membership because of issues with the website, which was Company Bs 
responsibility. Given Mr A used his Yorkshire Bank credit to pay Company B directly, the 
investigator concluded that the necessary DCS link had been established between Mr A (the 
debtor), Company B (the supplier Mr A is complaining about) and Yorkshire Bank (the 
creditor). And he didnt think that Mr As separate contract with Company A (the seller) in 
relation to the holiday vouchers negated that link. 
Our investigator also found Mr As version of events plausible, that hed never been able to 
use Company Bs website, based on archived information about the site. So, he concluded 
Company B breached the contract it had in place with Mr A. He therefore found that 
Yorkshire Bank should refund the total money Mr A paid for this membership under section 
75 of the CCA, with interest.
Yorkshire Bank responded to say theres no evidence that a separate contract was entered 
into with Company B. They believed the only contract was between Mr A and Company A. 
So, it disagreed with the investigators view and asked him to provide evidence of the 
contract with Company B. They reiterated that they consider the relevant supplier in this 
case to be Company A and the DCS chain is broken in the circumstances because Mr A 
didnt pay Company A directly with his credit card  he paid Company B, who is a third party, 
with no proven link to Company A. 
Our investigator explained his view that the relevant contract describes Company A as the 
agent and is an agreement to provide an online membership to Company Bs website. So, 
he thought a contract existed between Mr A and Company B for this online membership, 
which Company B entered into via Company A, as its agent. He said there were also letters 
from Company A regarding vouchers for holidays that Company A would provide directly 
(not via Company B). So, he believed there were two separate contracts: one with Company 
A to provide the holiday vouchers and one with Company B to provide the 10 year 
membership to its website.
Overall, he concluded that the relevant supplier Mr A is complaining about in this case is 
Company B, because hes unhappy he wasnt able to use its website for his online 
membership. He reiterated his view that Mr A paid the relevant supplier (Company B) 
directly using his credit card so the DCS chain was intact. And that Mr A had a valid section 
75 claim for a breach of contract by Company B that Yorkshire Bank could be held equally 
liable for.  
Yorkshire Bank still disagreed. They didnt think there was any evidence of a contract 
between Mr A and Company B because there is no offer, acceptance, consideration, or 
intention to create legal relations. They said Mr A had a relationship with Company A on 
paper and in conversation  not Company B. And if Company A was acting as an agent for 
Company B there would be no need for two contracts because Company A would be acting 
on behalf of Company B, as the principal. They said if there are two contracts, then clearly 
there is a break in the DCS chain, and they are not party to one of them.
  
The complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
In this case, section 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says:If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr A paid for goods or services using certain 
types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible.
The key issue I need to decide in Mr As case is whether Yorkshire Banks decision to 
decline his section 75 claim was fair. To decide this, I must first consider whether Mr As 
claim meets the requirements of section 75, as set out by the CCA. These criteria include 
the following points, which are central to this particular case:
(a) There must be the required relationship between the debtor, creditor, and supplier; 
and
(b) There must be a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the relevant 
supplier.
Unless the above criteria are met in the circumstances of this case, I wouldnt consider 
Yorkshire Bank to have acted unfairly when refusing Mr As claim. Ill consider each of these 
points in turn.
Is the required relationship in place between the debtor, creditor, and supplier?
In order for section 75 of the CCA to apply, there must be the correct relationship between 
Mr A (the debtor), the relevant supplier of the product or service he is complaining about (the 
supplier), and Yorkshire Bank (the creditor). This is also known as the DCS chain. 
In this case, Yorkshire Bank argues that the supplier Mr A is complaining about is Company 
A, who sold him the online membership  and because Mr A didnt use his Yorkshire Bank 
credit card to pay Company A directly, there is no DCS chain between Yorkshire Bank, Mr A, 
and Company A, as the relevant supplier. So, they cant be held equally liable. 
However, from looking at the paperwork from the point of sale, there were two possible 
suppliers of goods and services involved in the transaction Mr A is complaining about, as our 
investigator explained. Firstly, Company A, who sold Mr A and his wife the online 
membership with Company B and provided a number of separate holiday and 
accommodation vouchers to be redeemed directly with Company A within 36 months. And, 
secondly, Company B, who is the supplier of the website and associated services, which 
Mr A needed to use for his 10 year online membership. 
As Yorkshire Bank pointed out, theres no available evidence to show that Company A and 
Company B were linked in a way that would make them Associates under section 184 of 
the CCA. So, I have assumed they are separate entities for the purposes of this decision.  
Given the two suppliers in this case, it is first important to establish which one Mr A is 
complaining about, before going on to consider whether there is a DCS link in place between 
Mr A, Yorkshire Bank, and the relevant supplier. 
Ive looked at the complaint letters sent to Yorkshire Bank in 2018 by Mr As representative 
and Im satisfied Mr A has been consistent with his complaint. As per those letters, Mr A said 
Company A sold him and his wife a product that was provided by Company B, and Mr A is 
unhappy that hes never been able to use Company Bs product due to issues accessing the 
website, which eventually shut down in 2017. The paperwork confirms Company B was responsible for the website and any issues with it. So, Im satisfied the supplier he is 
complaining about is Company B, who was responsible for the product he said he couldnt 
use. This means I need to decide whether the necessary DCS chain existed between Mr A, 
Yorkshire Bank, and Company B  as the relevant supplier. 
Yorkshire Bank says there was no contract in place between Mr A and Company B. They 
believe the relevant contract was between Mr A and Company A. Having looked at the 
Membership Agreement, I think this written contract has caused some confusion, as its not 
clearly drafted. In the particular circumstances of this case, I think its important to look at the 
evidence as a whole, to ascertain which parties had an agreement in place to provide goods 
or services to Mr A. 
Having weighed up all of the available evidence, Im persuaded Company A sold Mr A the 
online subscription to Company Bs website on Company Bs behalf, as their agent. And that 
Company B agreed to provide the necessary services for the ongoing membership to their 
website to Mr A, via Company A. Ill explain why.   
The receipt document for Mr As purchase from October 2016 shows Company A as the 
seller, Mr and Mrs A as the purchasers  and then lists the name of the membership they 
purchased for Company Bs website under purchase details. It says an online subscription of 
10 years would be activated upon receipt of the balance, and that the total purchase price for 
the membership was £4,950. It also says Mr and Mrs A were provided with a separate 
booklet, membership certificate and brochure for Company Bs product, which were for the 
ongoing use of the membership. In my view, this suggests Company A, as the seller, only 
agreed to ensure Mr As membership was activated. 
The main Membership Agreement is on Company B headed paper. At the top of the first 
page it says: [Company B] Agency and Welcome to Advantage. It also says the website 
was built by Company B. It then goes on to say: This agreement is between [Company A] 
whose office is registered at [] with the company registration number [] and is binding 
under European law. It doesnt name another party to the agreement. It then again says: 
This agreement is valid between [Company A] and doesnt go on to say and, to clearly 
name the other party. Although, it then lists Mr and Mrs As details underneath this sentence. 
I can therefore appreciate why Yorkshire Bank concluded the written contract is between 
Company A and Mr and Mrs A. However, I dont think its clear - especially in the context of 
the remainder of the document or when looking at the terms of the agreement they entered 
into. 
The Membership Agreement clearly says that the website Mr A signed up to for holiday 
bookings is provided by Company B. It also says that from then onward, Mr and Mrs A will 
communicate with Company B directly. And they were given a separate document with the 
details of Company Bs helpline for any queries about their membership or the website. So, 
in my view, it seems clear that Company A were only involved in the sale and were not 
responsible for providing the membership on an ongoing basis over the 10 year period  
which was the responsibility of Company B and included the provision of a functional 
website.  
The Terms and Conditions of the Agreement section makes clear that Mr A purchased a 
subscription for a period of 10 years and had unlimited access to Company Bs website 
during that time (clause 1). It also confirms that Company B will provide all travel vouchers 
for holidays booked through the website (clause 8). And that payments for bookings made 
via the website were to be paid directly to Company B (clause 13), as well as any 
cancellation fees (clause 12). There is no mention of Company A having any involvement 
with the membership post sale. And given any further payments made after the sale were to be paid directly to Company B, there is clearly an intention for a relationship between Mr A, 
as the member, and Company B, as the provider of the membership benefits. 
The final page of the Membership Agreement then names Company A as the agent. I think 
its most likely this is evidence that Company A was acting as Company Bs agent when 
selling the online membership to its website, on Company Bs behalf. I think this is supported 
by the paperwork, which confirms Company B as the relevant supplier for the membership, 
website, and associated services under the terms of the membership with Company B. So, 
all things considered, Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that there is a valid 
agreement in place here for Company B to provide services to Mr A. 
Ultimately, Mr A used his Yorkshire Bank credit card to pay Company B a deposit of 
£1,000.50 for an online membership to its website, which he was supposed to be able to use 
for 10 years under the terms of his Membership Agreement. Im satisfied Company B is the 
supplier of that website and the associated services for members, based on the relevant 
paperwork. And Mr A only needed to pay part of the full membership price to the relevant 
supplier using his credit card for section 75 to apply. So, Im satisfied that there is a DCS 
agreement in place between Mr A, Yorkshire Bank, and Company B (the relevant supplier).
Was there a breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of the relevant supplier?
As Ive already explained, Mr As claim is that he wasnt able to use the online membership 
he purchased due to issues with Company Bs website. So, Ive considered whether this 
amounts to a breach of contract on the part of Company B; that is, generally speaking, 
whether Company B breached any terms of the agreement with Mr A, whether explicit or 
implied terms. And Im satisfied it did. 
As the investigator explained in his view and as referenced above, the Membership 
Agreement shows that Mr A purchased a 10 year membership to Company Bs website and 
it clearly states that the purchaser has the right of use as many times as required for the 
said period. However, Mr A said he was never able to access it and so he wasnt able to 
use the membership at all. 
The investigator referred the parties to archived versions of Company Bs website in his 
written view, which shows there were likely issues accessing the website around the time 
Mr A bought it in late 2016 and by 2017 the website was no longer working. I therefore 
consider Mr As version of events to be plausible, in that it is most likely he was never able to 
use the online subscription for which he paid £4,950, due to issues with Company Bs 
website. In my view, the paperwork makes clear that the website was Company Bs 
responsibility. And, ultimately, Mr A wasnt provided with the 10 years unlimited access he 
paid for, in breach of the terms and conditions of the agreement Ive set out above. 
On balance, I am satisfied it is most likely Mr A would have a successful breach of contract 
claim against Company B, as the relevant supplier of the membership he purchased, based 
on the available evidence. It follows that I dont think Yorkshire Bank acted fairly when 
refusing to consider Mr As section 75 claim. So, they need to put things right. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances of this case, I think its fair for Yorkshire Bank to meet Mr As breach of 
contract claim against Company B (the relevant supplier) under section 75 of the CCA. I 
think the fair redress for the breach of contract in these circumstances is for Mr A to get back 
the price he paid for the membership, with interest, given he had no benefits from it. Mr A paid the £1,000.50 deposit on his Yorkshire Bank credit card and may have paid 
associated interest on that amount under the terms of his credit card agreement. So, in line 
with the investigators recommendation, I think Yorkshire Bank should rework Mr As credit 
card account as if the transaction had never happened. Should this adjustment result in a 
credit balance at any point, Yorkshire Bank should refund the credit to Mr A and pay interest1 
on that amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date he would have received that 
credit to the date of settlement, to compensate him for the loss of use of those funds.
 
Yorkshire Bank must also refund Mr A the remaining £3,950 he paid via bank transfer and 
pay interest2 on that amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date he paid it until 
the date he gets it back, to compensate him for the loss of use of those funds.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr As complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Yorkshire Bank and direct it to pay the redress Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If that is the 
case, Yorkshire Bank must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
2 As per footnote 1