DRN-3961657
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled his request for 
money back in relation to flights hed paid for using his credit card. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr C paid £5,945.50 for flights for a party of 25 people. The flights were 
scheduled for May 2020, but Mr C says due to Covid-19 they were cancelled. The airline 
offered a one-year credit voucher, which Mr C accepted and rebooked flights for May 2021. 
Mr C tells us these were also cancelled. Mr C says the airline offered him another credit 
voucher, but he asked for a cash refund. The airline refused and so Mr C contacted Tesco in 
June 2021 to request his money back. 
Tesco responded to say it couldnt dispute the amount under the chargeback scheme 
because the claim was received outside the time limits of the scheme operator  540 days. 
Tesco considered the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said Mr C, 
his spouse and children (under 18) would be covered. But it said other members of the party 
wouldnt be because the necessary relationship for a claim to be considered under 
section 75 didnt exist for them. Mr C complained about the response and referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She agreed the 
chargeback was brought out of time. But she didnt think Tesco handled the section 75 claim 
fairly. She said Mr C was considered the lead passenger and that he was effectively acting 
as an agent for the whole party. She agreed with Tescos agreement to refund Mr C for him 
and his immediate family members. But she also thought as the lead passenger, or as the 
airline calls it, the group booker, Mr C had accepted the terms for the whole party, which 
indicated he was contracting for all the passengers. So she thought the necessary 
relationship for a claim to be considered under section 75 did exist. She also thought the 
claim was within the relevant financial limits. 
Moreover, our investigator said it wasnt in dispute that both return flights for 2020 and 2021 
were cancelled by the airline. So she thought there was a breach of contract. She noted 
Mr C would have been due a refund off the back of the 2020 cancellation if hed asked for it. 
But she acknowledged hed accepted a voucher. Our investigator went on to consider the 
terms and conditions for the voucher. And she noted it didnt mention anything about what 
would happen if the airline cancelled flights booked under a voucher. So our investigator 
thought that, to put things right, Tesco should rework Mr Cs account as if hed not paid 
£5,945.40 for the flights. And if that resulted in a credit balance, she recommended Tesco 
add interest to the refund. 
Mr C agreed, but Tesco didnt. Tesco said it didnt think the necessary relationship existed 
for the other party members not named on the Tesco credit agreement. It didnt think Mr C 
being the group booker changed that. Tesco also said that the breach of contract relating to 
the original flights was remedied when the airline provided a voucher. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Mr C was impacted by Covid-19. And I want to thank him 
for taking the time to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Im considering whether Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Cs 
request for getting his money back. So Ive had to think about the specific card protections 
that are available. In situations like this, Tesco can consider assessing a claim under 
section 75 or raising a chargeback. 
Section 75
Section 75 enables Mr C to make a like claim against Tesco for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an agreement it had with 
him for the provision of goods or services. But there are certain conditions that need to be 
met in order for section 75 to apply. 
As our investigator pointed out, there needs to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement. In this case the debtor is Mr C, Tesco is the creditor, and the airline is the 
supplier. But Tesco has said the passengers not in Mr Cs immediate family break the DCS 
agreement. 
Ive thought about the terms and conditions Ive been supplied relating to the role of the 
group booker  Mr C. They define the group booker as a person who is at least 18 years of 
age or a business entity (e.g. a travel agent) who makes a Group Booking and who acts as 
agent for all Passengers in the Group Booking; 
The terms and conditions go on to say:
The Group Booker will be responsible for the Group Booking and accepts these Group 
Terms as an agent on behalf of all the Group Passengers on the Group Booking. The Group 
Booker will be responsible for receiving and relaying any and all 
communications/correspondence (including changes, amendments and cancellations) from 
us or our suppliers concerning the Group Booking to all Group Passengers named in the 
Group Booking.
By making a Group Booking, the Group Booker agrees and acknowledges that they have the 
consent of each Group Passenger to disclose their personal data and passport details to us 
and to receive any refund and, where applicable, any compensation due and payable under 
the Group Booking in accordance with the General Terms.
The Group Booker also agrees and acknowledges that any of the Group Passengers on the 
Group Booking may make subsequent changes to it, having passed through the requisite 
data protection security questions and confirmed to us that they have the Group Bookers 
consent to make such changes. Provided we have acted reasonably and in good faith upon 
the answers to our data protection security questions, we shall not be liable for having made 
such changes if, without our knowledge, the Group Bookers consent had not been so given.
Its not in dispute that Mr C was acting as an agent for all the passengers in the group 
booking. I find there is a DCS agreement between Mr C, Tesco and the airline. Mr C made 
the booking and had the overall contract with the airline. The loss he is claiming is his. 
Theres nothing in the contract that prohibits Mr C from claiming the full amount of the 
refund. The relevant terms Ive set out above in fact say that the group booker can receive a 
refund or compensation due on behalf of the group. I dont therefore think the DCS 
agreement is broken. Ive gone on to think about whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation. It 
doesnt seem to be in dispute that the 2020 flights were cancelled. So I think there was a 
breach of contract. And having reviewed the terms and conditions Ive been supplied it looks 
like Mr C was able to receive a full refund. But Tesco has said the breach of contract was 
remedied when Mr C accepted a one year-voucher. 
By accepting the voucher for future services, I think Mr C and the airline agreed to new 
terms and conditions for the original transaction. So Ive thought about what the terms say in 
relation to the voucher. The general terms say:
Vouchers are non-transferable, non-refundable and cannot be exchanged for cash.
Vouchers are not combinable and only one voucher can be redeemed per booking. 
Vouchers cannot be redeemed after the expiry date. 
Ive also looked at the frequently asked questions about the vouchers. But, like our 
investigator has pointed out, I cant find any terms in relation to what would happen if flights 
booked using a voucher are also cancelled. So even though the terms and conditions say 
the voucher is non-refundable, Mr C wasnt able to use it because the airline cancelled the 
flights. Mr C has said hes not received any refund or used the voucher since. 
Therefore, on the face of it, the voucher was used to remedy the initial breach of contract in 
2020. But Mr C wasnt able to use it. So I dont think the remedy extinguished the initial claim 
for breach of contract. Looking at things overall, on a fair and reasonable basis I dont think 
its fair hes lost out. And I therefore think Tesco should put things right in line with what our 
investigator recommended, by reimbursing Mr C the full amount.
Chargeback
For completeness Ive thought about chargeback. Chargeback isnt a legal right or a 
guaranteed way of getting a refund. The rules are set out by the particular card scheme. 
There wasnt a requirement for Tesco to raise a chargeback, but if there was a reasonable 
prospect of success, Id consider it good practice for it to have done so. 
Tesco has referred to the chargeback being raised out of time by Mr C as it wasnt made 
within 540 days of the original transaction date. But, for cases like this, the Covid-19 
guidance from the card scheme that is relevant says a chargeback may be considered within 
120 calendar days of the voucher or merchant branded gift cards expiration date. Mr Cs 
voucher was valid until 1 June 2021. So I think Mr C did raise his claim in time  he 
contacted Tesco in June 2021. Moreover, the Covid-19 guidance also says where a 
customer accepts a reasonable alternative for future service there may be a chargeback 
right if the reasonable alternative cannot be used as described. That seems to be whats 
happened here. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think the way Tesco handled the chargeback claim looks 
fair. It looks like there was a reasonable prospect of success via the chargeback route as 
well. And if the chargeback was successful, Mr C would have received a full refund. 
Neither party gave any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Seeing as neither party has added anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
Rework Mr Cs account as if £5,945.50 had been refunded from the point Tesco 
declined his claim, less any refunds it has already made in relation to the claim. If 
reworking the account results in a credit balance, Tesco should add 8% simple 
annual interest* from the date the credit balance would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement.
If Tesco considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman