DRN-3550636
The complaint
Mr L complains about a loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, (L2G), which he says 
was unaffordable. He also complained that he felt he was being overcharged interest.
What happened
L2G entered into an agreement for a loan for Mr L in March 2019. The loan was for £750 
and was repayable by 78 weekly payments of £39.56 (a monthly equivalent of £171.42). The 
interest rate was 207.6%, (1,276.2% APR). If Mr L made each repayment when it was due, 
the total amount payable would be £3,085.68. The loan was repaid in August 2020. 
Mr L says that he took the loan out when he was in financial difficulty and he also feels he 
was overcharged interest. He had to take out a further loan to cover this loan and other 
loans.
In its final response letter, L2G said that whilst Mr L had declared his monthly income as 
£2,000, it had verified that he received a minimum of £1,003.30 monthly via an online 
income verification tool. L2G noted that Mr L declared his monthly expenditure and credit 
commitments to total £150. But following an extensive review of his application, in addition to 
his credit file, it estimated these to total £631.78. It also added a buffer of 10% to his verified 
expenditure to account for any fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure, even after 
which, it said that Mr Ls weekly contractual loan repayment of £39.56 would have still been 
affordable. L2G said that it had determined that Mr L had enough disposable income to 
afford his contractual instalments. With regard to Mr Ls complaint that he was overcharged 
interest, L2G said that the interest had been charged in line with the contractual terms and 
conditions. This had been accepted and agreed legitimately with Mr L in line with his loan 
agreement. But as a gesture of goodwill, L2G offered to write off 50% of Mr Ls then current 
outstanding balance of £632.96.
It appears that Mr L rejected L2Gs offer.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She said that having 
reviewed L2Gs checks, she thought the information that the lender obtained shouldve 
triggered it to do more checks. Had L2G requested bank statements from Mr L, she thought 
it ought to have spotted the number of Mr Ls payday loans and gambling transactions and 
concluded that hed be unable to repay its loan sustainably.
L2G responded to the investigators view by saying:-
- With regard to Mr Ls expenditure, it used information from the Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) on UK consumer average expenditure to determine what amount of 
expenditure was deemed reasonable. Where an applicant was spending less than the 
ONS figure, it replaced the applicants declared figure with the higher figure from the 
ONS. So, it didnt just accept the expenditure figure Mr L declared on his application.
- With regard to Mr Ls income, it obtained information from a credit reference agency to 
verify Mr Ls bank account and his declared income and credit liability. Its checks 
showed that Mr L earned about £1,003.30 monthly and this was the figure that it used.
- With regard to Mr Ls credit file, there were no major concerns about his ability to keep 
up with his credit commitments. All the settled accounts on his file painted a picture of a 
customer who was managing his finances properly. He had many settled accounts on 
his credit file which showed that he was committed to repaying his borrowings. There 
were also no defaults or adverse information that might have caused concern. Mr L had 
three open active accounts and was up to date with the payments on all three accounts. 
There was no glaring sign of an inability to maintain the payments on his credit 
commitments. Had it been given any indication of problems keeping on top of his 
finances, it would have been prompted to conduct further checks which would have 
included a review of Mr Ls bank statements.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L
and to L2G on 25 May 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Mr L had raised complaints about irresponsible lending and being overcharged 
interest. Id noted that the investigator had upheld Mr Ls complaint about irresponsible 
lending but she made no comment about his complaint regarding being overcharged 
interest. I said I would deal with Mr Ls complaint about being overcharged interest under a 
separate heading.
Irresponsible lending
When L2G lent to Mr L the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
L2G was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ls creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that L2G 
had to consider both the risk to it that Mr L wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr L of not being able to make those repayments. 
In particular, L2G had to consider Mr Ls ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
Id noted that the rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out, Id said that 
these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being 
provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total 
cost of the credit. So, a lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible 
and what was appropriate for one person might not be for another. And what might be 
sufficient for a borrower in one circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other 
circumstances. In general, I would expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ls case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Id noted that Mr L had asked for a loan of £1,000, but L2G provided him with the lesser 
amount of £750. I thought this might have suggested that L2G had concerns about Mr Ls 
finances. 
L2G had gathered some information from Mr L about his income and expenditure before it 
agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. 
Mr L said his net monthly income was £2,000, but L2G verified his net monthly income as 
just over £1,000 using an income verification tool through a credit reference agency which 
drew on bank account data. I hadnt seen the results of L2Gs income checks. But I thought 
they ought to have given L2G concerns about the information provided by Mr L. 
Mr L had declared his total living costs to be £150 with no credit commitments. But L2G was 
aware from its credit checks that Mr L did have credit commitments. So, again I thought it 
ought to have been concerned about the information provided by Mr L. 
Id noted that L2G used statistical data from the ONS and Mr Ls credit file to estimate his 
living costs and credit commitments to total £631.78.  
The lender provided this Service with its credit checks which Id reviewed. The credit checks 
showed that Mr Ls total credit balance was £1,139. I could see that Mr L had a credit card 
with a credit limit of £1,050, but his credit balance of £1,079 exceeded the credit limit, and 
his account had been in arrears in three of the previous four months. I thought this should 
have caused L2G concerns. The checks also showed that Mr L had a £60 balance on a 
communications account. Id also noted that the checks showed a number of settled payday 
loan accounts from 2017. So, whilst Mr L might have been managing his accounts 
satisfactorily in 2017, I thought the overlimit credit card and recent arrears on that account 
suggested Mr L was having recent problems managing his finances at the time of the loan 
application. And as L2G had explained in its final response letter, it was also aware that its 
credit checks might not have revealed the full extent of Mr Ls credit commitments at the time 
of his loan application. Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. The checks suggested that Mr L 
was having difficulties managing his credit card. And I thought they should have led L2G to 
conclude it should gather some more information about Mr Ls finances. L2G had told this 
Service that had it been given any indication of Mr L having problems keeping on top of his 
finances, it would have been prompted to conduct further checks which would have included 
a review of Mr Ls bank statements. I thought that would have been appropriate here.
I also didnt think it was reasonable for L2G to rely on statistical information about Mr Ls 
living costs without verifying it. L2G used ONS data, which was based on the finances and 
expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Ls living expenses. But I didnt think it 
was reasonable for L2G to think that Mr Ls circumstances fell within this average portfolio. 
L2Gs affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mr L and I thought it should have been in 
his circumstances. Mr L was entering into a significant commitment with L2G. He would 
need to make monthly repayments of around £171 for around 18 months. Given the length 
of time Mr L was committing to repay the credit and what L2G would have likely seen on its 
credit checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for L2G to get a clear picture of Mr Ls 
finances at the time. I thought it would have been proportionate for L2G to independently 
check the true state of Mr Ls finances before agreeing the loan. 
L2G needed to establish whether Mr L could make his loan repayments without him having 
to borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a 
contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on his financial situation. L2G needed to do more than just ascertain whether 
the loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It 
could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr L, asking for 
copies of  bills and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information 
about his existing credit commitments. I couldnt see that L2G took steps to do this. 
But although I thought L2G should have asked for some additional information before 
agreeing the loan, that in itself doesnt mean that Mr Ls complaint should succeed. I also 
needed to be persuaded that any further information would have shown L2G that Mr L 
couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So, Id looked at Mr Ls bank statements from 
around the time of the loan, to see what additional checks would have shown the lender. 
What would further checks have shown? 
Mr L had provided us with his bank statements from around the time he applied for this loan. 
I wasnt suggesting that this was the check that L2G should have done. But I thought looking 
at his bank statements gave me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. Had it 
sought some verification of Mr Ls spending, I thought L2G wouldve been in a better position 
to understand Mr Ls financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
Id reviewed the statements for January 2019 and February 2019. I could see that Mr L was 
spending around £530 each month on online gambling during that period. Mr Ls spending 
on gambling was frequent enough throughout those months that it was more likely than not 
that it would continue in the same pattern and posed a risk to Mr L being able to repay the 
loan sustainably. In those circumstances, I didnt think that L2G would have lent if it knew 
this, as I thought it ought to have if it had made better checks. 
I could also see that Mr L received what appeared to be gambling related winnings or 
refunds. But as these were by their nature unpredictable, Id discounted them.The statements also showed that Mr Ls financial circumstances were strained. Hed 
borrowed short term credit each month (around £300 on 31 December 2019 and a further 
£150 in January 2019 and £500 in February 2019) to supplement his income. I could see   
Mr L was repaying four different short term lenders in February 2019. As Mr L was borrowing 
a significant amount of short term credit, I also thought there was a very real prospect that 
Mr L would need to borrow again in order to repay his new loan and that would likely have a 
significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
Id also noted that Mr L appeared to be receiving small amounts from friends and family 
throughout the period around the time when his current account was about to go overdrawn. 
Id noted that Mr Ls current account had no overdraft arrangement. But he did go overdrawn 
in both months and had a returned payment.
So, I thought if L2G had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, it was 
likely it would have discovered his relatively substantial expenditure on gambling and the full 
extent of Mr Ls financial commitments. I thought L2G ought reasonably to have realised that 
Mr L was having significant difficulties managing his finances. Mr Ls finances werent stable 
and I didnt think that further checks would have provided the assurance L2G needed. And if 
L2G had made better checks, I thought L2G ought reasonably to have realised that it was 
unlikely that Mr L wouldve been able to repay his loan without him having to borrow to meet 
the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
Id also noted that L2G had said that Mr L had enough disposable income to afford his 
instalments. But it seems to me that L2G was focussing on its calculation of whether the loan 
was affordable for Mr L on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to 
establish whether Mr L could make his loan repayments without them having a significant 
adverse effect on his financial situation  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being 
affordable on this basis might be an indication that a consumer could make the repayments. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that this would be the case. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr L or L2G, I intended to say that L2G made 
an unfair lending decision when it provided the loan to Mr L and that L2G should put things 
right for him as follows:- 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
L2G should:
  refund all the interest and charges Mr L paid on the loan 
  pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*
  remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the loan. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mr L 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Being overcharged interest
Id firstly said that where the evidence was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as 
some of it was here), Id reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I considered was most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances.
Mr L had complained that he was overcharged interest. He said in his complaint to L2G:-
 I am also complaining that the interest rate was grossly excessive. It is unfair to charge 
someone more per month over 18 months than they would have paid to a payday lender for 
a loan the same size over 12 months.
In its final response letter, L2G said that interest had been charged in line with the 
contractual terms and conditions. This had been accepted and agreed legitimately with
Mr L in line with his loan agreement. It explained that all the interest which would become 
payable over the term of a loan was added at the beginning of the loan term. L2G also said 
that it wasnt a payday lender and its minimum loan term was 18 months. 
Id seen a copy of the Loan Agreement.  On the front page of the Agreement, I could see 
that the key terms were clearly set out including the APR and the interest rate and the total 
amount payable as well as the weekly repayment amounts. The term of 78 weeks was also 
shown. The Agreement also said
 As you are entering this Agreement in the form of an electronic communication, instead of 
signing in your handwriting, please type in your name below and then click the I accept 
button, this would have the same effect as if you had signed the Agreement in your 
handwriting.
Id noted that Mr Ls surname was typed on the Agreement. I didnt have any evidence that 
Mr L didnt sign the Agreement by typing in his name. The Agreement also said that it should 
be signed only if the signatory wanted to be bound by its terms. It appeared that Mr L agreed 
to the Agreements terms, including the interest rate, by signing the Agreement. So, on 
balance, I wasnt persuaded that L2G had acted inappropriately in charging the interest rate 
shown on the Agreement. And Id said that I didnt intend to uphold this aspect of Mr Ls 
complaint. 
Mr L responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
L2G responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no additional points to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr L is happy with my provisional decision and L2G has given me nothing further 
to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint in part and require L2G to take the steps set 
out above under the heading Putting things right - what L2G needs to do.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the 
heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman