DRN-3030752
The complaint
Mrs R complains that advice given by Atkins Bland Limited in 2007 to transfer part of her 
pension fund to another self-invested personal pension (SIPP), in order to invest in an 
overseas property fund, was unsuitable.
Mrs R is represented by a third party in this matter.
What happened
In May 2006, Mrs R discussed her pension arrangements with Atkins Bland. At the time the 
adviser recorded that Mrs R wasnt working and intended to retire in around 9 years, at age 
55. Some of Mrs Rs partners financial details were also set out in the fact find.
As well as deferred benefits in an occupational pension scheme Mrs R also had around 
£60,000 in savings.
Mrs R was assessed as having an average attitude to investment risk.
It appears that Mrs R was advised to transfer the deferred benefits from the occupational 
pension scheme to a SIPP. The transfer value of Mrs Rs deferred benefits was around 
£70,500. Mrs R went ahead with the recommendation.
In April 2007, Atkins Bland advised Mrs R to encash investments and transfer £20,000 from 
her existing SIPP to another SIPP provider in order to invest in the Stirling Mortimer Majestic 
Village No 3 Fund (the Fund). Atkins Bland advised Mrs R to set up a new SIPP to hold the 
Fund as her existing SIPP provider would not allow her to hold the Fund within its SIPP 
wrapper. The Fund invested in a resort development in Spain.
I understand that Mrs Rs partner was also advised to invest in the Fund, and this prompted 
Mrs R to discuss investing in the Fund with Atkins Bland.
Mrs R transferred £20,000 to the new SIPP and £17,500 of this was invested in the Fund. 
£17,500 was the minimum investment permitted in the Fund. There was an initial set up fee 
of £200 for the new SIPP, plus an annual fee of £250. In addition, Atkins Bland received an 
ongoing fee of 0.75% of the value of the new SIPP each year.
At the time the new SIPP was set up to facilitate the investment in the Fund the adviser set 
out: 
I would specifically draw your attention to the risk factors in both our summary and the 
relevant pages in the Information Memorandum. By investing this money you will be 
upgrading your risk to above average overall from the current average position of your 
pension funds, you confirmed that you are comfortable with this.
In June 2013, Mrs R was advised that it would be possible to hold the Fund in her first SIPP 
and the Fund was transferred to Mrs Rs original SIPP.
The information available shows that the October 2017 statement, sent to Mrs R from her 
SIPP provider, set out that the Fund had lost its entire value.
In late 2019, Mrs Rs representative complained to Atkins Bland on her behalf about the 
advice she had received to invest in the Fund. It said it felt the Fund was unsuitable for 
Mrs R in view of her attitude to investment risk and that the investment was a complex, 
esoteric, overseas, non-standard investment. It said Mrs R was an inexperienced and 
unsophisticated investor and it did not think the recommendation to invest in the Fund had 
been suitable.
Atkins Bland did not uphold the complaint. In summary it said it felt that its advice had been 
properly explained and was suitable, given Mrs Rs circumstances, priorities and 
expectations at the time.
It said Mrs R had the capacity to accept the risks, of which she was made aware, and she 
was happy to take those risks in return for the possibility of high returns over a fairly short 
period. 
It said that it was of the view that when Mrs Rs partner invested in the Fund:
Mrs R decided she would also like to move some of her pension fund to a more speculative 
investment.
And it said that when it advised Mrs R to transfer her deferred occupational pension scheme 
benefits to a SIPP in 2006, Mrs R had ticked a box to say that this pension pot was an 
insignificant part of my overall potential income producing assets at retirement.
In view of this, Atkins Bland said it didnt think the decision to place £17,500 of the 
£76,000 pension fund into a speculative investment, leaving the balance in a portfolio of 
collective investments with an overall average risk strategy, breached Mrs Rs willingness to 
expose this part of her capital to a reasonable degree of risk.
And it said that if Mrs R hadnt wanted to invest in the speculative fund it had recommended 
to her partner she wouldnt have gone ahead with the investment. It said it felt Mrs R was in 
a position to take a higher level of risk with part of her SIPP funds when her partners 
financial position was also taken into account.
It also said that, as Mrs R had been made aware that there were problems with the Fund 
from 2009 onwards, it felt her complaint had been brought too late for this service to be able 
to consider it.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with Atkins Blands response and her representative referred the 
complaint to this service.
An ombudsman colleague considered the points Atkins Bland had raised regarding whether 
Mrs R had brought her complaint too late for this service to be able to consider it. Having 
carefully considered this she said she was satisfied that Mrs Rs complaint had been brought 
within the timescales this service must apply and could be considered by this service.
An investigator then considered the merits of Mrs Rs complaint. Having done so he said he 
felt the complaint should be upheld. In summary he said he didnt think the advice to invest 
in the Stirling Mortimer Majestic Village No 3 Fund was suitable for Mrs Rs personal and 
financial circumstances. 
He noted that Mrs Rs partner had invested in the Fund and this may have influenced 
Mrs Rs acceptance of the advisers recommendation. But he said he felt that if the adviser had explained why the investment wasnt suitable for Mrs Rs circumstances, he didnt think 
she would have gone ahead with this speculative non-readily realisable investment. 
Atkins Bland did not accept our investigators view. It said:
-it felt Mrs R had been made aware that the investment could cause the loss of the 
capital and Mrs R was, therefore, aware of that before she chose to invest;
-the investigator had not considered that in 2006 Mrs R had ticked a box to indicate 
that she considered this pension fund to be an insignificant part of her resources 
for retirement. It said it believed this was a factually correct and rational opinion;
-it did not accept that the money invested in the Fund could have generated a 
reasonable portion of her own independent income in retirement; and
-it said it felt it was important for an adviser to take account of the financial position of 
a co-habiting partner when giving investment advice.
It also asked for the following information to be taken into account:
- Mrs R had withdrawn her SIPP funds in July 2018 and April 2019. It said the money had 
been invested in investment properties held jointly with her husband. Atkins Bland said it felt 
this showed that Mrs R and her husband were pooling their resources and treating their 
finances jointly;
- The total amount transferred to the SIPP (in 2006) from Mrs Rs deferred occupational 
pension scheme was over £70,500 and the total gross amount she withdrew in 2018/9 was 
£91,718. It said it felt this showed that Mrs R had made a profit on the pension she 
arranged through Atkins Bland despite the loss on the part invested in Stirling Mortimer.
It also reiterated that it felt Mrs R had the capacity to risk the money she had invested into 
the Stirling Mortimer fund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
attitude to investment risk
In the suitability letter Atkins Bland sent to Mrs R dated April 2007 it said:
I would specifically draw your attention to the risk factors in both our summary and the 
relevant pages in the Information Memorandum. By investing this money you will be 
upgrading your risk to above average overall from the current average position of your 
pension funds, you confirmed that you are comfortable with this.
In view of this it appears that, in order to consider Mrs R eligible to invest in the Fund, she 
was told that she would need to upgrade her attitude to investment risk. I am not satisfied 
that this was an appropriate way to determine whether Mrs Rs attitude to risk had become 
more adventurous.
As a professional adviser I think Atkins Bland should have taken steps to properly re-assess 
Mrs Rs attitude to investment risk, rather than simply saying that if she wanted to invest in 
the Fund she would need to upgrade her risk appetite. I note that Atkins Bland said Mrs R 
was comfortable with this but I am not satisfied that the implications for upgrading her risk 
appetite were adequately discussed or explained.I accept that Mrs Rs attention was drawn to the risk factors set out in Atkins Blands product 
summary. 
It is not in dispute that the summary set out that the investment carried some risk. And a 
more than average risk. But I must also take into account that Mrs R has said she felt the 
bank guarantees/insurance bond described were important and she felt these protections 
were emphasised in the documentation. 
Having reviewed the product summary, I think it does emphasise the steps that had been 
taken to mitigate the risks. In reaching this view I have taken into account that:
-it referred to the major attraction of the bank guarantees offered (by an A+ rated 
bank);
-  said anyone investing in the Fund must be prepared to accept some risk which could 
include a loss of capital. But this risk was described as extreme and in theory 
occurring only if the Fund had to borrow to complete on properties  which was 
never intended as the Fund could sell the right to purchase contracts. Even if that 
was at a loss of 45%, this could be accommodated;
-although it acknowledged there was the risk of a significant downturn in the Spanish 
holiday homes market the objective of the Fund was, to protect investors against this 
risk whilst capturing some of the potential upside of buying new developments; and
-it said that even if property prices in the Spanish holiday home market fell, as the 
discount between the off plan and completed properties was around 25%, it was 
reasonable to assume the Fund could stomach the loss.
I accept that the product summary set out that the investment carried some risk. But it also 
emphasised the steps that had been taken to mitigate the risks. I dont think Mrs R would 
have understood from Atkins Blands product summary, that there was a substantial risk that 
she could suffer a large capital loss, or even the total loss of her investment. I am also 
mindful that it described the Fund as not being suitable for anyone who was particularly risk 
averse but did not describe it as high risk or speculative.
Having carefully considered the information available I dont think Atkins Bland adequately 
explained the risks involved or, why it felt the Fund was suitable for Mrs Rs attitude to 
investment risk.
Capacity for loss
In its response to our investigators view Atkins Bland said the investigator had not 
considered that in 2006 Mrs R had ticked a box to indicate that she considered this 
pension fund to be an insignificant part of her resources for retirement. It said it believed this 
was a factually correct and rational opinion.
I have carefully considered this point and Atkins Blands view that it felt it was important for 
an adviser to take account of the financial position of a co-habiting partner when giving 
investment advice.
It is not in dispute that there are many instances where a financial adviser will need to take 
account of the financial position of a spouse or partner when giving advice. 
Atkins Bland says that when Mr Rs financial position is taken into account it feels Mrs R had 
the capacity to absorb the total loss of her investment in the Fund. If this was the case, and 
this was a factor in the recommendation it made to Mrs R, I think Atkins Bland should have 
made this clear to Mrs R in 2007 when it advised her to invest in the Fund. Had it set out in its recommendation that, although Mrs Rs retirement provision was modest, 
it had taken into account that she could rely on her partners savings and investments if her 
investment in the Fund failed, I think this may have led Mrs R to better understand the level 
of investment risk she was taking on.
I accept that in 2006, when Mrs R was advised to transfer her deferred occupational scheme 
benefits to a SIPP, she ticked a box to indicate that she considered this pension fund to 
be an insignificant part of her resources for retirement. But nothing has been provided to this 
service from 2006 to explain why Mrs R ticked this box. 
Atkins Bland has said in its submissions to this service that it believes this was a factually 
correct and rational opinion when Mrs Rs partners finances are taken into account. But 
again, I think that if Mrs R and her partner were being jointly advised, I think this should have 
been very clearly explained in writing to both parties.
Suitability
I have carefully considered the suitability letter and product summary issued to Mrs R in 
2007, when Atkins Bland advised her to take out a new SIPP in order to invest in the Fund.
Atkins Bland says:
If Mrs R had not been happy to invest this money into a speculative fund, recommended to 
Mr R to reflect his higher risk preference, I do not believe she would have done so.
As Atkins Bland knows, it was required to give Mrs R suitable investment advice. It was the 
professional adviser and Mrs R was relying on it to make suitable recommendations. I dont 
think it is reasonable for Atkins Bland to say Mrs R should have understood in 2007 that the 
investment was a speculative fund. 
In reaching this view I have considered the information provided to Mrs R at the time the 
advice was given. As I set out above, I think Atkins Bland emphasised the steps that had 
been taken to mitigate the risks involved in the Fund. I dont think Mrs R would have 
understood from the product summary, that there was a substantial risk that she could suffer 
a large capital loss, or even the total loss of her investment. 
I am also mindful that although Atkins Bland described the Fund as not being suitable for 
anyone who was particularly risk averse, it did not describe it as high risk or speculative 
and it said it was satisfied that the Fund was suitable for Mrs R as she was in a position to 
accept some risk.
I accept that the information included risk warnings, but as Atkins Bland will appreciate 
providing risk warnings doesnt make unsuitable advice suitable.
I have also considered that the key driver for the amount Mrs R invested in the Fund was 
that the minimum investment permitted was £17,500. I note that the investments Atkins 
Bland had advised Mrs R to make in her SIPP when it was set up in 2006 were spread 
across a range of different funds. I think given the proportion of Mrs Rs SIPP funds that 
were invested in the Fund I think the concentration risk should have been explained to Mrs R 
in 2007.
Likewise, although Atkins Bland explained that Mrs R would need to set up another SIPP in 
order to invest in the Fund, I am not satisfied that the additional costs this would involve 
were adequately taken into account in the recommendation made.This was particularly important given that the annual SIPP fee of £250, was over 1.4% of the 
amount Mrs R had been advised to invest in the Fund. I havent seen anything that shows 
the drag effect of this SIPP charge (in addition to Atkins Blands annual charge of 0.75% plus 
VAT of the SIPP value) on the investment was explained to Mrs R. I note Atkins Bland 
described the SIPP fee as an attractive fixed fee structure for the Single Investment SIPP.
Having very carefully considered this matter I think that if Mrs R had fully understood the 
risks involved, I dont think she would have gone ahead with the investment in the Fund. 
Therefore, I think the £20,000 wouldve remained invested in her original SIPP.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs R should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs R would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs R's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
I am mindful that the SIPP that was set up to hold the investment in the Fund was closed in 
2013, prior to the loss being crystallised. 
I am satisfied that if Mrs R had not been advised to invest in the Fund, she would have 
remained invested in the Transact SIPP. As this is the case the redress calculation I have 
set out below is based on the full amount (£20,000) that Mrs R was advised to transfer to the 
new SIPP in order to invest in the Fund.
As Atkins Bland did not respond to the investigators suggestion that it could demonstrate 
how the Transact pension would have performed had the investment in the Stirling Mortimer 
fund not taken place, I think the recommendation below is a fair and reasonable method to 
calculate the redress due to Mrs R.
I am also mindful that Atkins Bland says that in 2018/9 Mrs R encashed the other 
investments in her SIPP and it appears that the only investment the SIPP now contains is 
the Sterling Mortimer fund. I have taken this into account in the redress I have set out below.
What should Atkins Bland do?
My aim is to return Mrs R to the position she would have been in but for the unsuitable 
advice. However, this is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.
To calculate the compensation, Atkins Bland should agree an amount with the SIPP provider 
as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take 
ownership of the investment. 
If Atkins Bland is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. The value used in the calculations should include anything Atkins 
Bland has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP 
should be deducted.In return for this, Atkins Bland may ask Mrs R to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Atkins Bland will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Atkins Bland asks Mrs R to provide 
an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of 
that undertaking.
It appears that the SIPP now only exists because of the illiquid investment. As this is the 
case, in order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the 
investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Atkins Bland taking over the investment, or this is something that Mrs R can 
discuss with her SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that, if the SIPP only exists - and cannot be closed -
because of the illiquid investment, Atkins Bland pay Mrs R an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
In addition to the steps set out above, to compensate Mrs R fairly, Atkins Bland must:
-Compare the performance of total amount Mrs R was advised to transfer to the new 
SIPP (in order to invest in the Fund) with that of the benchmark shown below. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
-Atkins Bland should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Atkins Bland should pay into Mrs R's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Atkins Bland is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs R's marginal rate of tax at her 
selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs R was a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs R would have been able to take a 
tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Atkins Bland should also pay Mrs R £200 for the upset this matter has caused her.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Atkins Bland deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs R how much has been taken off. Atkins Bland should give Mrs R a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
£20,000 
withdrawn 
from 
Transact 
SIPP to 
fund 
Hornbuckle 
and 
Mitchell 
SIPPn/aFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Indexdate funds 
were moved 
to 
Hornbuckle 
Mitchell SIPP 
(to invest in 
Stirling 
Mortimer 
Majestic 
Village No 3 
Fund)date of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
As I set out above, to calculate the compensation, Atkins Bland should agree an amount with 
the SIPP provider as a commercial/actual value of the Fund, then pay the sum agreed to the 
SIPP plus any costs and take ownership of the investment. (If Atkins Bland is unable to buy 
the investment, it should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The 
value used in the calculations should include anything Atkins Bland has paid into the SIPP 
and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.)
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs R wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs R's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Atkins Bland Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Atkins Bland Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs R in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman