DRN-3224903
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A say that NRAM Limited unfairly recorded a late payment on their credit file and 
that it should be removed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a buy to let mortgage with NRAM. They had a tenant who was in severe 
arrears due to circumstances related to the Coronavirus pandemic. NRAM were unable to 
collect a Direct Debit at the beginning of January 2021 and reapplied some days later but 
again the payment wasnt collected. In response to a text message received by Mrs A from 
NRAM, Mr A lodged £500 to the account on 15 January as the tenant had again failed to 
make payment. But NRAM didnt present the DD again and Mr and Mrs A didnt make that 
months payment. In February in response to a call from NRAM Mr A made the payment by 
card. 
Because the payment had been missed in January, NRAM recorded this with the credit 
reference agencies. Mr and Mrs A say they only became aware of it when the mortgage for a 
building that they intended to expand into was refused. Mr and Mrs A say that this was an 
out of character error and a credit marker shouldnt be installed where there is a true one-off 
oversight. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt 
that NRAM did enough to contact them when the payment was missed and applied the late 
payment marker correctly. Mr and Mrs A disagreed saying that their personal circumstances 
should have been considered and they had limited contact from NRAM to alert them that the 
payment had been missed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noted that Mr A suggested on 21 December 2021 that he was getting advice on this, but 
Ive heard nothing further from him and so proceeded to reach my decision on the evidence 
already on the file. 
NRAM will send in information on Mr and Mrs As account each month to credit reference 
agencies. There are certain principles of reporting that have been agreed with the 
Information Commissioners Office which is that the report should be fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete, and up to date. In this instance Mr and Mrs A agree that they didnt 
make the payment in January. Although there is a dispute about the amount of warnings 
they received from NRAM, Mr and Mrs A fairly say that they were aware from the middle of 
the month that the payment hadnt been made and for a number of reasons didnt make the 
payment by the end of the month. Whilst those reasons are understandable, the failure to 
make the payment wasnt the fault of NRAM. The January payment wasnt made when it 
should have been. Thats the factual situation and NRAM are obliged to report that fact. It 
seems to me that the alternative to NRAM recording this as a late payment was to record it 
as a payment made in the month of January. But that would be inaccurate.
Ive read Mr and Mrs As file and have a great deal of sympathy for them and the position 
they found themselves in. But I cant fairly require NRAM to provide inaccurate information to 
the credit reference agencies which would seem to be the result of what they are asking 
NRAM to do although I realise that is not their intention. So, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs A may wish to explore the possibility of adding a Notice of Correction 
to their credit file to explain this one-off event which I understand they can do themselves by 
contacting the relevant credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman