DRN-3112645
The complaint
D is unhappy that an application it made for a foreign currency bank account was declined 
by HSBC UK Bank plc. D has said HSBC hasnt given it adequate reasons as to why the 
application was declined. And that its decline has had a detrimental impact on its business.
D is represented by Mr K. And so, Ive referred to Mr K where necessary too.
What happened
Mr K has explained that D applied for a foreign currency bank account with HSBC in early 
December 2020. It had initially tried to open the bank account online but had no success. 
So, D then made an application on the phone. 
Mr K said at the time D was applying for the bank account, the reason the bank account was 
needed was made clear  this being that foreign currency would be on its way. HSBC 
completed an application with D, and asked for supporting documentation  which D 
provided.
HSBC confirmed receipt of the documentation, and Mr K has noted D were informed these 
would be reviewed and it would hear back from HSBC shortly in respect of the account. But 
this didnt happen. 
Instead, D needed to chase for a response to its application. And it wasnt until after chasing 
the matter on a number of occasions, that D was informed the account application had been 
declined. Just over a month after the initial application.
Mr K, on behalf of D, raised concerns about both the decision to decline the application for 
the account, and the time taken for HSBC to communicate this decline to D. He noted that 
the situation had a detrimental impact on D, because it had to receive foreign currency into 
GBP accounts  meaning transfer charges and exchange fees.
HSBC looked into these concerns. It maintained its decision to decline Ds account 
application. It said D didnt meet its eligibility criteria. It did however accept there had been a 
delay in letting D know the outcome of its application. It apologised for this, and offered D 
£75 compensation.
D remained dissatisfied with HSBCs response. So, it referred its complaint to this service, 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that banks were entitled to decide their own criteria, and therefore when it offered an account 
or not. They noted this was a commercial decision, and that HSBC hadnt acted unfairly in 
exercising this commercial right, on it what it had decided to share with D in relation to its 
decision. 
Our investigator also thought the £75 compensation offered, for a recognised delay in 
processing and communicating the application outcome was fair.
D didnt agree. Mr K responded to our investigators view on behalf of D. He noted that;
D only looked into opening a foreign currency account when this was needed, and 
that HSBC had been sympathetic to the situation;
It was then unreasonable for HSBC to decline the application with no valid reason, 
and HSBC shouldnt have accepted banking from D where it couldnt offer the foreign 
currency services;
The declinature of the account meant D had to use other means to receive its funds, 
and the costs of this were unclear at this stage  but would be over and above the 
£75 offered in this case;
The outcome reached by the investigator seemed fair and reasonable for HSBC, but 
not for D.
Because D didnt agree with our investigators opinion, this complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr K, on behalf of D 
feels strongly about the matter. And I appreciate why. But Ive explained the reasoning for 
my decision below.
I do understand why D is looking for HSBC to provide it with a foreign currency account, and 
that it only applied for this to be opened when D needed it. But, its important to note that 
there is no requirement on a bank to provide banking services to a customer or potential 
customer. As a business, it is generally for a bank to decide what banking services it is 
willing to provide, and to who. 
Ive considered Ds complaint with this in mind. And, it means that whilst I appreciate D 
thinks this is unfair, Im satisfied HSBC didnt do anything wrong by declining to open the 
foreign currency account. 
HSBC did consider whether it would offer the services D was seeking  it completed an 
application with D  Ive seen a copy of it. And Im aware that following the receipt of the full 
application, including supporting documents, HSBC did consider whether this was a service 
it would be willing to offer D. I think when D asked for the foreign currency account, it was 
reasonable for HSBC to consider it.
But, given the above, Im also satisfied it was fair for HSBC to decline the application. It is 
within its rights to do so. It isnt for this service to make HSBC offer this service to D. So, I 
dont require HSBC to do anything more in this respect.
I know D is also unhappy that HSBC didnt give any other reason for declining the 
application  other than that D didnt meet its eligibility criteria. And I do appreciate Ds wish 
for further clarity. But a bank also isnt required to give reasons to a customer or potential 
customer for a decision not to provide banking services. So, I also dont think its 
unreasonable that HSBC has let D know it wont provide the service, because of eligibility 
reasons, and didnt elaborate further. So, Im not requiring it to provide any further 
clarification.HSBC has accepted that there was a delay in letting D know it wouldnt be accepting its 
application. It took over a month to do this. As both parties agree there was an unreasonable 
delay, I dont need to consider this further. Except to decide whether HSBC has done 
enough to recognise the inconvenience this caused.
HSBC has offered £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused and has apologised for 
the delay. Im satisfied this is reasonable. I think it fairly recognises the inconvenience 
caused to D, by it needing to chase HSBC for an outcome on a number of occasions.
D has said that because the account wasnt opened, it has had to use other methods to deal 
with foreign currency transactions, and that is likely to cost more than £75. But I should 
highlight, it was never guaranteed that Ds application would be successful  and so I dont 
hold HSBC accountable for this, and this doesnt change my decision on the complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, Im satisfied the £75 compensation HSBC Bank UK plc has offered is fair 
and reasonable in this case. This should be provided to D, if it hasnt been already. I dont 
require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything more than this, in respect of Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman