DRN-1783193
The complaint
Mr T complains about the amount that Advantage Insurance Company Limited charged him 
to retain his cars salvage after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to 
refund him the extra amount he was charged. 
What happened
Mr Ts car was damaged following its theft and Advantage charged him £11,100 to retain its 
salvage. But Mr T thought this was too high. He thought the cars salvage was worth about 
£5,225. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Advantages 
engineers had based the salvage value on the cars visual presentation, which showed 
minimal damage, rather than the costs of necessary repairs. He thought our approach was 
that a 35% salvage deduction was fair. 
Advantage had said that the minimum it would have received for the salvage was £7,120, 
which was around 38%. So he thought Advantage should pay Mr T the difference between 
the £11,100 it had deducted from Mr Ts settlement and the salvage value of £7,120, with 
interest. 
Mr T replied that his independent engineers report had found that the salvage value was 
£5,180. He thought Advantage should also pay him the cost of obtaining this report, £66, as 
it had acted unfairly. Advantage replied that 38% was an average deduction and it thought 
its actual deduction had been fair. It said it would need to consider how much it cost Mr T to 
repair his car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage wanted information about what it cost Mr T to get his car back on the road in 
order to review whether its deduction for the salvage had been fair. But I dont think this 
would be fair or reasonable as how Mr T arranged his repairs isnt necessarily related to the 
entire damage to his car or what it would have cost to repair it under a claim. 
Advantage said it couldnt find cars with the same damage as Mr Ts in order to provide a fair 
estimate of the cars salvage value. It said its engineers had arrived at £11,100 by 
comparing the cars pre-accident value with one with minimal front-end damage. 
Mr T instructed an independent engineer to provide a salvage value. He arrived at his 
estimate of £5,180, based on 28% of the cars pre-accident value.
But I dont think this, or Advantages approach, is fair or reasonable as they dont take into 
account the likely repair costs to the car. These include significant damage to the cars 
interior and Advantages estimate doesnt take this into account. This damage is noted in an 
estimate provided by Advantages salvage agent, but it isnt costed for repair. 
A repairs estimate was provided by an independent engineer instructed by Advantage. He 
said this would be £11,239.49, subject to undisclosed damage. Both reports recommended 
that the claim be dealt with on a total loss basis due to the likely cost of repairs. So 
Advantages salvage value of £11,100 plus the likely repair cost would be higher than the 
cars pre-accident value of £18,500. I dont think this is reasonable.
If the car had gone to salvage, I think the repairs needed would have been disclosed and 
affected the cars value. So I dont think Advantages estimate was fair or reasonable as I 
think it over-estimated the cars salvage value. 
Mr T thought the salvage estimate provided by the salvage agents report, £5,224.80, should 
be used as the charge for his retaining the car. He said this estimate had been confirmed 
verbally by the independent engineer, but I havent seen a report to confirm this. But I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to use this estimate as this as it was made before the full 
extent of likely repairs was known. 
Our approach in considering whether a salvage value is fair and reasonable is that we 
consider evidence from the insurer about what it would have received for the salvage. 
Advantage has shown that the minimum it would have received from the salvage agent was 
£7,120, which is 38% of the cars valuation. 
This is also about the amount left after deducting the likely repairs costs from the cars pre-
accident value. So I think its in keeping with what wed consider reasonable. So I think 
Advantage should have deducted £7,120 rather than £11,100 from its settlement of Mr Ts 
claim to cover the cost of the salvage. 
Mr T incurred a cost of £66 for his independent report. But I dont think Advantage needs to 
refund him this amount as I think the report didnt show that Advantage had acted unfairly.
Putting things right
I think Advantage should refund Mr T the difference between what it deducted for the 
salvage, £11,100, and what it would have likely received for it, £7,120. 
Mr T has been without his money for some time. So I think Advantage should reasonably 
add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple from the date of settlement to the date of 
payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman