DRN-4237751
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) wont refund the money they lost in 
a scam. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L are represented in this case but for ease Ill mainly refer to Mr L throughout 
this decision, as he is the one who was involved in the scam. All scam payments were made 
from their joint account with HSBC. 
Mr L says that he received a cold call from someone who said he was an investment 
manager for a company Ill refer to in this decision as C. Mr L didnt know at the time, but the 
caller was a scammer. He was told that he could achieve good returns by investing in 
commodities, stocks and shares. Mr L had no experience of investing but after being told 
that he could achieve greater returns with Cs help and, after looking at Cs website and 
some reviews, he decided to go ahead. Mr L took out a loan for £5,800 that credited his 
account on 17 December 2021. 
The scammer advised Mr L to make payments to three different cryptocurrency exchanges 
after creating accounts using a screen sharing app. Mr L says that he had no access to the 
accounts and that he wasnt involved in moving funds from these accounts. Below is a table 
of the payments Mr L made.
Date Amount Payee
17/12/21 £7,150 1
17/01/22 £100 1
17/01/22 £96.89 credit 1
17/01/22 £100 2
18/01/22 £100 3
18/01/22 £2,900 3
Total £10,253.11
 
After hed made the first payment Mr L was given access to a trading platform that showed 
how his investment was doing which persuaded him to invest more. In January 2022 Mr L 
was able to make a withdrawal but when he tried to withdraw a larger sum, he was told he 
needed to pay a fee of £2,900. Once Mr L had made this payment, he was advised he 
needed to pay more and then the scammers stopped communicating with him and he 
realised he had been scammed. Mr L reported what had happened to HSBC on 10 June 
2022, but HSBC told him he had a civil dispute with C.
HSBC later considered Mr and Mrs Ls complaint under the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). It said that it had sufficient fraud 
prevention measures in place, but that Mr L didnt complete enough checks before making 
the payments. In particular, he didnt check that the advisor and C were genuine, didnt 
question why he wasnt paying C and didnt heed its scam warnings. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with HSBCs response and brought a complaint to our service. 
They said the payments were unusual and out of character and HSBC should have 
intervened when they were made. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. She 
said that Mr L didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate 
payment, but HSBC didnt provide an effective warning and should have spoken to Mr L 
when he made the first payment request. So the investigator asked HSBC to pay 50% of the 
amount Mr and Mrs L lost in the scam plus interest.
HSBC agreed with the investigators findings, but Mr and Mrs L did not, so the complaint was 
passed to me to consider. In summary, they said that the 50% deduction was harsh because 
Mr L was an inexperienced investor and the only way he knew to check the legitimacy of C 
was online reviews. As he had an account, he didnt expect to receive a contract or 
documentation and didnt think communicating via a messaging app was unusual because 
he communicated with other professionals in this manner. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 June 2023 and recommended that HSBC refund 50% 
of Mr and Mrs Ls loss (£5,126.56) plus interest. In the section headed, What Ive 
provisionally decided  and why I said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  
Mr L authorised the scam payments from his HSBC account. So, although he didnt intend 
the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr L is presumed liable for the loss from his joint 
account with Mrs L in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An 
example of this would be if a payment instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic 
for the usual use of the account. In such circumstances Id expect HSBC to intervene and 
ask more questions about the intended transaction before processing it.
On balance, I dont think the CRM Code applies in this case. I say this because the CRM 
Code only applies to payments to someone else and Mr L made payments to accounts that 
were in his own name. Im aware that Mr L has said he didnt make the payments from the 
cryptocurrency wallets or have control of them, but think Mr L was still aware that his funds 
were leaving the wallets. So I dont consider the CRM Code applies in this case. Ultimately 
though, I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint whether it is 
assessed under the CRM Code or good industry practice. This is because if Im considering 
this complaint under the CRM Code I need to assess if Mr L had a reasonable basis for 
believing he was paying for legitimate services. If Im not considering Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint under the CRM Code, I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs L contributed to 
their own loss. So, Im considering similar points. 
I have considered whether the payments from Mr and Mrs Ls account were so unusual and 
out of character that HSBC ought reasonably to have intervened and asked questions when 
they were made. The £7,150 payment stood out as being unusual due to the amount, the 
fact it was to a new payee and because the payee was a cryptocurrency exchange. It was 
also made soon after loan funds credited Mr and Mrs Ls account. In the six months before 
Mr and Mrs L hadnt made any payments over £1,000. So I think HSBC ought to have recognised a potential scam risk and intervened and asked Mr L some questions about it. Id 
expect HSBC to ask the reason for the payment and some probing questions based on that 
payment purpose, including perhaps how he found out about the investment, what checks 
hed completed and what the rate of return was. As Mr L was cold called, I consider HSBC 
should have asked further questions and its likely the scam would have been uncovered, 
particularly given that Mr L took out a loan just before he started to invest. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr and Mrs L should also be partly responsible for their 
loss. After considering the position carefully I think HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs L half of 
what they lost in the scam for the following reasons:
-Mr L received a cold call from someone who claimed to be an investment manager 
who offered him an investment opportunity. I think its fair to expect a level of caution 
in these circumstances.
-Mr L says that he looked at Cs website and at reviews  which didnt cause him any 
concern. There were only a very limited number of reviews at the time, but I agree 
that those available wouldnt have highlighted any problems. 
-Mr L says he communicated with the scammer via a messaging app for around two 
weeks before he decided to invest. Hes been unable to provide any messages to 
this service though. The messaging app isnt one Id expect a legitimate investor to 
use, and I think Mr L ought reasonably to have had some concerns about 
communicating in this way. 
-Mr L says he wasnt provided with a specific rate of return when he invested but says 
that his investment eventually yielded a return of three times what he invested. This 
is a huge increase in a short timeframe and suggests the scammer lured Mr L into 
investing based on unrealistic statements about the returns he might expect. I find it 
unlikely Mr L would choose to take out a loan with a high rate of interest if he wasnt 
expecting to get a higher rate from the investment. 
-Mr L wasnt provided with a contract or any other documentation which set out the 
terms of his agreement with C. I consider this to be unusual and something that 
ought to have led Mr L to think something was amiss.  
-Mr L thought he was investing in commodities, stocks and shares but, with the help 
of the scammer(s) he opened accounts at three different cryptocurrency exchanges. 
Ive asked Mr L to explain what he thought about this but havent been provided with 
a satisfactory explanation. If C was a genuine company, Id expect funds to go to an 
account in Cs name and certainly not to three different exchanges. 
-Mr L was aware that accounts had been opened in his name using a screen sharing 
app but says he had no access to the accounts. This is another red flag I think Mr L 
ought to have questioned. 
-Mr L ought reasonably to have had concerns about being asked to take out a loan for 
investment purposes.
-The final £2,900 payment was a fee that Mr L doesnt appear to have been told about 
before he started to invest.
I appreciate that Mr L was an inexperienced investor, but I dont think he did enough to 
satisfy himself he was making a legitimate investment. And whilst I note that Mr L received a 
small return, this only happened after hed made most of the payments. Mr and Mrs Ls 
representative has said that Mr L started with small payments which built with pressure from 
the scammer. But this isnt correct  the largest payment was the initial one of £7,170. 
Ive also considered HSBCs actions once it was made aware of the scam. But as funds 
were passed through a cryptocurrency exchange there was nothing HSBC could have done 
to recover them. Overall, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs L and HSBC should share the loss equally. 
Ive gone on to consider the rate of interest that should apply to the payment Im asking 
HSBC to make. Part of the scam investment was funded by a 24-month loan of £5,800 with 
a rate of interest of 8.28% and the remainder of the funds were either already in Mr and Mrs 
Ls joint current account or were transferred in (but I dont have any details of the account 
the funds were transferred from). Im told Mr L is continuing to make loan repayments and 
that interest and charges havent been written off. In the circumstances, I think it would be 
reasonable to pay interest on the entire amount Im asking HSBC to refund at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.   
Both parties responded to let me know they accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any additional points for me to consider so for the same reasons as 
I set out in my provisional decision (and reproduced above) Im satisfied HSBC should 
refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Ls loss, plus interest as set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
- Refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Ls loss (£5,126.56);
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each transaction to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman