DRN-3753277
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will not reimburse 
money that they lost to an investment scam. 
For the purposes of this decision, all reference to the complainants includes their 
representative. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B share a joint account with Halifax. In early 2021, Mr B became interested in 
what he thought was a genuine investment scheme. He was liaising with a company (which 
Ill call A) and had made payments towards it using his separate sole account with Lloyds 
Bank, which is part of the same banking group as Halifax. 
Mr B made these payments from his Lloyds account under the impression that he had an 
investment account with A, which was making a healthy profit by trading cryptocurrency. 
Then, on 17 May 2021, Mr B instructed a £5,000 faster payment from this Halifax joint 
account. Its this transaction that is the subject of this particular complaint. 
Like the prior payments, Mr B followed As instructions to send the money to a well-known 
cryptocurrency exchange platform, Kraken. The funds left Halifax and went to a Kraken 
account in Mr Bs name which he had control of. Once Kraken converted the fiat currency to 
crypto, Mr B then remitted the funds onwards to A. He believed that A was acting in his best 
interests and was in contact with a representative who would assist him with the trading. 
However, Mr B later realised that A was a fraudulent scheme and hed been scammed out of 
the £5,000 (along with the money sent from his sole account). There had in fact been no 
trading or investments placed at all  meaning he had lost all that was paid to the company. 
He reported this to Halifax and Lloyds; both banks declined to reimburse the payments.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs B referred the dispute to this office. This complaint only 
concerned the May 2021 payment made from Halifax (Mr B also referred the transactions 
from his Lloyds account, which is subject to a separate case at our service). 
Having reviewed the evidence for this case, one of our investigators concluded that there 
was not a fair or reasonable basis to require Halifax to refund the £5,000. The complainants 
disagree, citing that the bank ought to have done more to protect the account. 
Because the complainants do not agree, the matter has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payment and the money was remitted to 
an account in his name with Kraken. Where the payment was made using Halifaxs faster 
payment service, our investigator considered whether it was eligible for protection under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) scheme  otherwise referred to as the Code. 
Halifax is a signatory of the Code, meaning that it might be required to reimburse the 
complainants. 
However, in his provisional assessment, our investigator found that this payment would not 
meet the requisite criteria to be reimbursed pursuant to the Code. This is because Mr B 
didnt transfer the £5,000 to an account held by another person. Based on the 
representations made by the parties, it appears common ground that CRM would not apply 
here  so theres no need for me to focus on this point. With that in mind, all I will note is 
that I agree that this payment does not fall under the scope of the Code, because it was 
made between two accounts held by the same person. 
There still might be grounds to expect Halifax to return this money to the complainants. The 
Code works in addition to the overarching obligations and principles of good practice the 
bank should follow. The starting position is that banks ought to honour the instructions given 
by their customers in order for authorised payments to be made as instructed. Still, there are 
some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding a particular transfer or payment. For example, if it was 
particularly out of character when compared to the normal conduct and spending habits of 
the consumer(s).
Having reviewed the recent activity on this account, I find it would have been proportionate 
for Halifax to have asked the complainants to provide further details about the payment in 
question. Its neither unfair nor unreasonable to expect a bank to double-check payment 
instructions that ought reasonably to trigger concerns as to whether they are particularly 
unusual or uncharacteristic. Here, the £5,000 payment represented the single largest 
occurrence of expenditure in recent times, on an account that typically did not have such 
account movement or spending habitude. 
Accordingly, Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe ought 
fairly and reasonably to have been asked by Halifax would have made a difference to Mr B 
going ahead with the payment. In my view, it would have been commensurate for bank staff 
to have asked Mr B (as the party instructing the transaction) to provide details such as to 
whom the money was being paid to and why. 
We know these questions (and more) were asked of Mr B by Lloyds on the very same day 
as the payment with Halifax. Mr B was in contact with Lloyds regarding a separate payment  
that would ultimately end up with A  and one thats also been raised as fraud and forms 
part of the separate complaint at this service. Ive listened to this call recording, as it has 
causative relevance to how likely it was that an appropriate intervention by his bank (be that 
Lloyds and/or Halifax) was to sway him from his intention to carry out a payment. 
It's clear that Mr B did not become incredulous about his plans; he was happy to go ahead 
despite specific warnings about the risk of cryptocurrency scams and being provided insight 
into the techniques frequently employed (and that we know were in play here). Its fair to say 
that the obscurity of Mr Bs answers to these probing questions did not give bank staff an 
entirely factual and true description of how he had come to make the payments. 
Given that this conversation occurred on the same day as this £5,000 payment from his joint 
account, I find it probable that Mr B would not have become overly sceptical about his plans 
to invest had Halifax also made enquiries with him. Bank staff do ultimately have to make 
decisions based on the information they are given by customers; Mr Bs conduct at the material time does not demonstrate that he would have heeded a warning had Halifax 
stepped in. 
Whats more, I have to bear in mind that Mr B was aware that his money was going to 
remain in his possession as its initial destination was an account in his name with Kraken, 
that he had successfully tried and tested before. Further, by Mr Bs own admission, the 
fabricated trading application/website A presented him with was extremely complex and, by 
the time he instructed Halifax to make this payment on 17 May 2021, he believed his prior 
trading had proved profitable and all of the funds had remained safely in his custody (plus a 
healthy profit) once sent onwards to A from Kraken. 
The intricacy of what he was seeing, together with the sophistication of the trading software, 
is something that Mr B has openly said he found challenging to see anything untoward with. 
It appears that the fraudulent online application with A was very advanced and had an 
onboarding procedure which resonated with Mr B as genuine, making it inordinately difficult 
to recognise what was legitimate and what wasnt.
I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. While I appreciate Mr B may
disagree, and has alleged that unfair assumptions have been made about how he would 
have reacted to an intervention from Halifax, there is simply a lack of compelling evidence to 
convince me that he would have been deterred from his plans to invest even if bank staff 
had provided insight into common fraud trends and the risk of falling victim to scams (as they 
did for his account with Lloyds). 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think any failure by Halifax to intervene could 
reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of the complainants loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely Mr B would have proceeded to make the transaction 
irrespective of due intervention by the bank. It follows that I do not require Halifax to return 
this £5,000 to the complainants. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman