DRN-3578950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how Ageas Insurance Limited have dealt with a claim on their 
home insurance policy
What happened
Mr and Mrs K noticed cracks appearing in their house, they also said the property vibrated 
when traffic drove along the road in front of their house. They believed the traffic was 
causing the vibrations which had caused the cracking to their property, so they contacted 
Ageas to claim on their policy. 
Ageas reviewed the claim and accepted it. They said the house was suffering from 
subsidence caused by a tree. However, once the tree had been cut down the monitoring 
Ageas had done showed the property had stabilised. Ageas therefore said no further work 
was needed to prevent the subsidence but did agree to repair the damage caused by it. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree and complained, they said the road outside their house had 
continued to cause vibrations for some time after the tree was cut down. Because of this 
they thought there was sinkage to the road which also needed repairing and asked Ageas to 
continue to monitor their property. 
Ageas reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the property had now stabilised 
and theyd accepted the claim but hadnt started repairs as Mr and Mrs K had said they were 
getting another report on their property. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree the damage was only 
down to the tree and referred their complaint here. They also said their premiums had 
increased more than their neighbours and didnt think that was fair. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
the report Ageas had done showed the property had stabilised and didnt think Ageas had 
acted unreasonably by accepting the claim and agreeing to repair the damage. They also 
found that Mr and Mrs Ks premiums had increased due to the subsidence claim and their no 
claims discount (NCD) being reduced, because of this she didnt think Ageas had acted 
unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed, they said the crack had got worse in their house and they didnt 
think it was fair for Ageas to not do further monitoring. They also said they were arranging 
another report but hadnt been able to have it completed yet. 
As Mr and Mrs K disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ageas have accepted the claim for subsidence, I see no reason to review that again 
here. However, I have looked at whether they did so fairly and reasonably and whether they 
need to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs K have said the road outside their house has sinkage and this was causing the 
vibrations from the traffic. Theyve also said the cracks have got worse so dont believe the 
damage is only down to the felled tree. 
Ive reviewed the reports Ageas carried out on Mr and Mrs Ks property, and they say the 
cause of the subsidence is down to clay shrinkage caused by it drying out because of the 
tree, which has now been cut down. The report says since the tree has been cut down the 
clay has stopped drying out and has now expanded again and stabilised the house. 
I understand Mr and Mrs K disagree with these reports and wish to have their own carried 
out. But without anything to show there is another cause for the damage Im not persuaded 
Ageas have been unreasonable by accepting the claim, agreeing to the repairs and stopping 
the monitoring. Im therefore not going to tell Ageas to do anything else. In regard to the 
other report Mr and Mrs K are having carried out, even if they do produce that now I wont be 
considering it in this decision. This is because it would be new evidence and it wouldnt be 
fair to review it in this decision before Ageas have had a chance to review it. 
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about their premium increasing. Ageas have 
shown Mr and Mrs Ks NCD has reduced due to the claim and the claim was showing as 
outstanding. As this increase would be the same for other customers, Im not persuaded 
theyve treated Mr and Mrs K unfairly. I understand Mr and Mrs K have said their neighbours 
had the same claim and their premium only increased by £20, but Im also aware there are 
other factors which can affect the premium. So, Im not persuaded this shows Ageas have 
treated Mr and Mrs K unfairly by charging the premium they have. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman