DRN-4318440
The complaint
Mr J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (who Ill call VWFS) didnt 
make early settlement charges clear enough in their terms and conditions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I dont think VWFS have made a mistake or that they have 
been unreasonable here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by The
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination and early
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early
Settlement) Regulations 2004. It says that the settlement date becomes 28 days after receipt
of the settlement request and it goes on to allow the creditor, if the loan is for more than one
year, to defer the settlement date by 30 days. So that explains the 58-day charges Mr J has 
incurred. 
These terms arent explicitly referred to in the credit agreement and I understand Mr Js
concern. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and explaining each and every
term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length. 
Mr J says the contract was misrepresented to him. Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, 
a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue, 
and which materially influenced the other party to enter into the contract. Im not persuaded 
that there has been a false statement of fact here. VWFS didnt tell Mr J, for instance, that 
the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 didnt apply to his finance 
agreement.
Ive thought about whether Mr J would have done anything differently if he had been aware 
of the early repayment provisions. The additional payment Mr J is disputing is not an 
insignificant figure but its a small proportion of the overall credit and, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that if Mr J had known hed be liable for this at the outset it would have been 
significant enough to persuade him not to proceed with the finance agreement. And if he 
hadnt settled early he wouldve paid significantly more interest. So, I dont think VWFS 
needs to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman