DRN-2738920
The complaint
Mr Y says the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal), trading as Portafina 
LLP, to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits into a personal pension 
with Novia and the recommended investments, was unsuitable.
Mr Y is represented by Anthony Phillip James & Co (APJ).
What happened
Mr Y says he was approached in a cold call about the possibility of accessing tax-free cash 
(TFC) from his pension in 2014. Portal says he was introduced by Pendere Alternatives 
Limited (PAL). This business was its Appointed Representative (AR), and so Portal was 
responsible as the principal for any of its acts and omissions.
PAL gathered some initial details from Mr Y on 13 October 2014. It also conducted a risk 
attitude questionnaire. And arrangements were made to obtain information from one of the 
OPS he was a member of  Sita (GB) Limited - about his pension benefits.
Portal then wrote to Mr Y on 28 March 2015, providing him with the headlines about the 
transfer value of his OPS and a critical yield figure. There wasnt an explanation of these 
things, instead its short letter said:
Why is it important to act now?
There can be large variations between the performances achieved by the different pension 
providers and also the size of annual fees they charge you, which could significantly impact 
the growth of your pension. Switching or consolidating your pensions could stop you losing 
hundreds and even thousands of pounds a year in fees, and could add the same or more in 
growth.
Portal concluded its letter by encouraging Mr Y to make contact in order to arrange a 
telephone appointment with one of its paraplanners. This took place on 24 April 2015. 
Information was gathered from him about his circumstances, objectives and matters such as 
his attitude to risk.
Portal sent a post sale letter to Mr Y on 28 April 2015. This set out its recommendation that 
he shouldnt transfer his OPS benefits because he would lose valuable guarantees. It went 
on to set out how he could still proceed if he wanted to. Attached to the letter was a form 
setting out his two options. And a template insistent client letter if he decided the transfer 
should go ahead. Mr Y returned the forms on 1 May 2015.
Portal then sent Mr Y a suitability report on 6 May 2015. This set out its analysis and 
recommendations. It identified his objectives in the following terms:
-Release tax-free cash to pay off loans and help overall finances 
Mr Y was a member of the Sita (GB) Limited OPS scheme with deferred benefits. He had 
accrued nearly six years qualifying service. He ceased active membership of this pension in 
June 2000. Ultimately, he was persuaded to opt out of his OPS and move his accrued 
benefits, which had a transfer value of around £30,500.
In the covering letter to its suitability report, Portal noted that if Mr Y followed its 
recommendation he would have access to TFC of around £7,600. It recommended he invest 
the bulk of his residual funds into a Novia income drawdown plan and what it said was a 
balanced portfolio including a mixture of equities, fixed interest securities and secured 
bonds. The balance was used to pay Portals initial fees and for a small cash holding.
APJ approached Portal on Mr Ys behalf in September 2019. It raised several concerns 
about the advice hed been given in 2015. For example, it said the recommendations to 
transfer his OPS had been unsuitable. It went on to suggest Mr Y had been given advice to 
move his funds into a Self-invested Personal pension (SIPP) and high risk investments.
Portal sent Mr Ys representative its response on 3 January 2020. It said:
you have not followed the pre-action protocol by failing to particularise the claim, 
providing an estimate of financial loss suffered by the Claimant and how it is calculated or 
providing a single document. In essence your letter of claim is no more than a "fishing 
expedition" that the pre-action protocol states it shouldn't be (certainly in the context of your 
failure to supply details of the claim and any documents). The claim is denied in full. It is 
based on errors of fact.
An Investigator considered Mr Ys case. She agreed with Portal about some of its 
observations concerning some of the complaint points raised by APJ. For example, she 
couldnt find any evidence hed been invested in Unregulated Collective Investment 
Schemes (UCIS) as it has asserted. Nor did he transfer to a SIPP.
The Investigator spoke with Mr Y to find out a bit more about what had happened in 2015. 
He said APJ had been in contact with him to say he may have a case. He said he thought he 
mayve been caught up in a fraud and was worried about what was happening to his money. 
He said at the time of the advice Portal had told him he could withdraw TFC  he didnt need 
it, but it had been offered so he thought why not take it? Mr Y said that at the time he would 
say he was cautious and never invested in stocks and shares.
The Investigator upheld Mr Ys complaint. She didnt think the insistent client process Portal 
had relied on had been genuine. And she couldnt see there was a clear reason for him to be 
transferring his OPS benefits. 
Portal disagreed. It said it had adhered to regulations in providing him with advice. It said it 
had recommended that he shouldnt transfer his benefits nor opt out of his OPS. But Mr Y 
wanted to proceed and so it followed correct insistent client procedures. It was satisfied that 
it had handled matters such as the risk assessment process properly and had given him the 
information he needed.
So, Mr Ys complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Ill start by addressing the scope of this complaint and the investigators approach. This 
Service has an inquisitorial remit to identify the root cause of any complaint. The Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) should 
make rules for us, which mean that we shouldn't look at a complaint if a consumer hasnt 
communicated its 'substance' to the business.
So, its not about the way Mr Y has expressed his complaint but about what the crux or 
substance of his concern is really about. The DISP rules required Portal to look fairly at the 
'subject matter', get more information when it needed to and be both thorough and impartial. 
The rules also stress it had to look at all the evidence, and the specific circumstances of his 
complaint.
This service must also think about what lies at the heart of a complaint and look at the whole 
picture. This approach was recognised in court in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2008] EWHC 2142:
"The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action. His jurisdiction is 
inquisitorial not adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can 
operate."
Taking these matters together, the Investigator wouldnt have been considering Mr Ys 
concerns properly if she hadnt looked at the advice process as a whole; its what he asked 
this Service to do. So, although APJ wasnt effective in setting out some of the key elements 
of what happened in 2015, the further research by the Investigator makes clear areas of 
concern arising from the transfer of his OPS benefits to a personal pension.
Im also satisfied Portal has had an opportunity to fully respond to these matters. Indeed, its 
addressed the arguments made by the Investigator in its last submission to this Service, 
which Ive considered in my decision. 
Im upholding Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ys case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr Y. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ys complaint.
At the time of the advice Portal gave Mr Y, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Portal was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr Y to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr Y a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr Y understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, Portal had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr Y on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to Portals transaction with Mr Y that are important to 
my consideration, these include the Pension Options Personal Financial Questionnaire (fact 
find), the Suitability Report and the forms and letters it used in its advice and insistent client 
process.
At the time of Portals advice Mr Y was nearly 59 years old and his chosen retirement age 
was said to be 65. He was separated with one dependent child. Mr Y worked for a transport 
company full-time and worked part-time as an NHS health care assistant. He was a member 
of both his employers OPS.Theres no detailed information about Mr Ys household incomings and outgoings, although 
the indication is there was a net disposable income each month of between £350-500. He 
had a loan with an outstanding balance of around £5,000 (with monthly repayments of 
£213). 
Mr Y rented his home from the council. He also had savings of around £5-6,000, which was 
set aside in case of emergencies).Aside from his pension provision, he had no other assets 
or liabilities.
Mr Y was a deferred member of his Sita (GB) Limited OPS. This had a transfer value of 
around £30,500. From the available evidence, it doesnt appear that Portal conducted 
effective retirement income planning with him.
The objective Portal recorded for Mr Y in this transaction was:
-Release tax-free cash to pay off loans and help overall finances 
In responding to the Investigators view, Portals main argument was that Mr Y had been an 
insistent client. It said it had clearly recommended to him that he shouldnt transfer his OPS 
benefits. But he wanted to proceed. It said its suitability report had made clear it treated him 
as an insistent client. And he had returned a signed insistent client declaration form to say 
that he wanted to go ahead.
Ive thought carefully about what Portal has said. This isnt a clear cut case and Portals 
arguments arent without merit.
Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should 
communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client is able to 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation. 
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction. 
Portal also needed to obtain Mr Ys acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at his request. I think this acknowledgement is better if in Mr Ys own words.
Ive reviewed Portals approach to how it conducted business with Mr Y as an insistent client. 
For example, Portal has provided a copy of the post sale letter it sent to him in April 2015, a 
few days after Mr Y had spoken to its paraplanner. It was a short letter in which it 
recommended he shouldnt proceed with the transfer of his OPS benefits. The following is an 
extract from that communication:
You currently have a pension with Sita Pensions which has a transfer value of £30,478, 
from which you could release a total amount of £7,619 as a tax free lump sum. However, as 
the critical yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits) with this provider is 
10.30% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you will be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £1,501 per annum and tax free cash 
sum of £3,665 which is payable at retirement age 65.
In the next paragraph of this letter to Mr Y, Portal immediately went on to say the following:
If you still wish to go-ahead with pension release, we can still help you with this. As this is 
against our recommendation, we now need you to complete and return the insistent client 
form confirming you are aware of the benefits you would be giving up.
I enclose a form with the various options available to you. Please can you complete and 
return both forms to us in the pre-paid envelope as soon as possible. Once we have this, I 
will arrange to send out all the relevant application forms and suitability report detailing our 
advice.
Attached to the letter was a form with two options  the first was to take TFC and reinvest 
the residual funds with Mr Y being treated as an insistent client. The second option was to 
remain with his OPS, which it recommended. Portal also provided Mr Y with an insistent 
client template letter to complete and return if he took the first option.
Mr Y completed the forms provided by Portal to say he wanted to transfer his OPS benefits. 
Portal then wrote to him and provided a suitability report around 6 May 2015.
Ive thought carefully about what Portal did and what its said about the insistent client 
process it followed. Ive several concerns about it. And like the Investigator, Ive concluded it 
was flawed. I say this because:
- Mr Y was approached by Portals agent and I think its more likely than not it drew his 
attention to the potential of releasing TFC from his pension. Theres no evidence to 
show he was the prime mover in the transaction. And theres no evidence of a strong 
reason for accessing his pension benefits. 
- While its communication with Mr Y did set out its recommendation for him not to 
proceed with the transfer, this was seriously undermined by advice in the same short 
letter about how he could still go ahead. And this approach was a pattern throughout 
its process.
- I note that Portal only send Mr Y the suitability report after hed decided he wanted to 
transfer his OPS. This undermines the process  how could he have been expected 
to take a fully informed decision without access to the analysis?
- The insistent client form Mr Y signed was a template. It wasnt in his own words. It 
wouldve been clear to Portal that he had little knowledge or experience of financial 
matters. So, it wouldve been important to ensure he understood what he was getting 
into, and a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that 
he understood the recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed.
- There are also various examples from Portals process of gaps in the information it 
held, or certainly that it provided Mr Y, to enable him to make a fully informed 
decision. For example, what were the terms of his OPS? Many similar schemes allow 
early access to benefits, albeit often being actuarily reduced.
- The consequences, of transferring accumulated benefits, were not effectively 
communicated.
Theres no evidence Mr Y had knowledge and experience of pension and investment 
matters. I think this shouldve been clear from the information gleaned by its AR and its 
paraplanner. And this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take 
matters through the insistent client route.Ive not seen evidence that Portal effectively advised Mr Y about the long-term nature of 
pension planning. The need for a pot of funds to provide an income for many years ahead. 
Ive not seen any analysis about how much his Sita Ops wouldve contributed to his overall 
retirement income outlook.
While its clear Mr Y had an idea about accessing some of his pension TFC, Portal hasnt 
satisfied me it effectively engaged with him about the range of options open to him. Indeed, 
he had a reasonable disposable income each month, theres no information about why he 
wanted to increase this. The loan was relatively small and theres no sign he was worried 
about making the repayments. Mr Y has told us he had no particular need for TFC, and while 
I place less weight on recent testimony than contemporaneous evidence, his sentiment sits 
reasonably with the information Portal captured in the fact-find.
Its also of note that Mr Ys required income in retirement isnt explored. In the evidence 
provided by Portal Ive seen no attempt to get to the bottom of this fundamental question. 
And as Ive already mentioned, we also dont know what flexibilities were available to Mr Y 
under his OPS.
Portal hasnt satisfied me that it treated Mr Y fairly by helping him to understand the 
significance of the decision he was about to make. He may have signed an insistent client 
form, but this doesnt absolve it from acting with due care and skill.
Portals role was to discern what Mr Ys wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to do these things 
because it had to act in his best interests. Even though it recommended Mr Y shouldnt 
transfer his OPS benefits, I dont think its demonstrably met these obligations.
Portal cant rely on its recommendation to Mr Y not to transfer to say that full advice wasnt 
required or that failings didnt matter. While Portal acknowledged the transfer of Mr Ys OPS 
wasnt suitable, there were failings in the advice process which meant he wasnt fully 
informed about his position and I think its more likely than not the effect of fuller information 
and better analysis wouldve been significant to his decision making.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process Portal followed meant that Mr Y can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in his best interests. And it failed to act with 
due care and skill.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr Y about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when early access to benefits is 
contemplated, there need to be compelling reasons, on balance I dont think that was the 
case here.
Turning to the investment advice Portal gave to Mr Y. I dont believe either party would 
dispute that Mr Y wasnt an investment professional. Nor was he a sophisticated investor. 
Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he had little knowledge or 
experience of investing. This is important context when I consider what happened to him.
Portal conducted a risk questionnaire with Mr Y. The suitability report had a brief section 
about the outcome of the analysis. It said:We have recommended a portfolio based on the risk profile that you completed. The 
portfolio is designed to provide growth, and to gradually reduce your risk exposure as you 
come to the age at which you expect to retire (which you have stated is 65). 
Based on the answers you provided in your risk profile we believe you have a balanced 
attitude to risk. This broadly means: 
-Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial 
matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters. They 
may have some experience of investment, including investing in products containing 
risky assets such as equities and bonds. 
-In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk in 
order to be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to take risk 
with at least part of their available assets. 
-Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a 
gamble provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. They 
will usually be able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively quickly, but 
do still suffer from some feelings of regret when their decisions turn out badly.
In this context, I find many of the responses Mr Y gave to the questions that were part of 
Portals risk appetite assessment revealing, for example:
-People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  strongly agree
-I feel comfortable investing in the stockmarket  disagree
-I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments  strongly agree
-I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares  agree
-I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made  agree
-Id rather take my chances with higher risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving  disagree
-Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments - agree
-Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on investment matters - agree
I accept Mr Ys responses to some questions mayve indicated a different outlook and all 
information gathered needs to be taken together and reviewed. But I cant find any proper 
exploration of what underpinned Portals assessment of his risk appetite. I cant see where it 
probed apparently contrary responses, nor that it allowed time for proper discussion where 
he was unsure about his answers. Rather, it seems responses were fed into a system and 
dealt with in a mechanical manner without further enquiry.
As we know the bulk of Mr Ys funds after taking TFC were invested with Novia into the 
following holdings: 
Dimensional Global Short-Dated Bond Fund* 25% 
Dimensional Multi Factor Equity Fund* 60% 
Henderson UK Property Unit Trust* 7% 
Premier Pan European Property* 3% 
Cash 5% 
Even if I accepted the spread of the funds Portal recommended were appropriate for Mr Ys 
risk assessment  which I dont  its not possible to reconcile a balanced outlook with his 
responses to the risk questionnaire. So, I agree with the Investigators conclusion that Portal 
overstated his appetite for risk.Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its recommendations than providing effective 
advice about what was in Mr Ys best interests concerning his valuable pension funds. 
Portal was being paid a lot of money to provide best advice to Mr Y. Those fees are another 
area of concern. Its recorded that he was charged 5% of the transfer value for the initial 
transaction. And there was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portal. And there were fees for his 
new pension provider and management fees associated with the funds he was investing in.
Portal failed to provide a clear comparison of the charges he would incur in the new 
arrangements with his former pension plans. While it did note the new arrangement would 
be more expensive, I dont think that was sufficiently transparent.
Portal shouldve provided Mr Y with fully formed and unequivocal advice not to proceed with 
the transfer of his OPS benefits. It shouldnt have advised him to place his pension into a 
personal pension plan Novia and the specific investment funds it recommended. I say this 
because of the flaws Ive found in its advice process; what it knew about his attitude to risk; 
and his lack of experience of the sort of investments it was recommending.
Instead, Portal failed to conduct a satisfactory insistent client process with Mr Y. And it 
recommended that his OPS benefits be invested in a fund that was not suited to his risk 
appetite. It knew this and the potential consequences. I cant see that accessing his TFC 
was a pressing concern for Mr Y. Nor was there an assessment of his retirement income 
requirements.
I think that if Portal had given Mr Y appropriate fully formed advice, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the transfer of his OPS benefits. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional 
advice and then go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Ys OPS benefits could sensibly be regarded as 
fair to him. As such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it 
when providing him with such advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, on balance its reasonable to 
uphold this complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ys case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for.
I consider Mr Y wouldve remained in his OPS. Portal Financial Services LLP should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ys acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ys 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ys SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ys pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr Y as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr Y within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr Y. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ys complaint. I require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman