DRN-3252809
The complaint
Mr C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited wont pay the full costs of bespoke hip 
replacement surgery under a corporate private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has been a member of a corporate private medical insurance policy since 2011. 
In October 2021, Mr C contacted AXA to make a claim on his corporate private medical 
insurance policy. He told AXA that his consultant surgeon, Mr A, had recommended that he 
should undergo hip replacement surgery, using a bespoke implant. He provided medical 
evidence from Mr A in support of his claim.
AXA considered the medical evidence, but it didnt agree to cover the full costs of the 
bespoke surgery Mr A had proposed. Thats because it said a bespoke hip replacement 
wasnt conventional treatment which would be covered by the policy. Its clinical team had 
reviewed the available evidence. It didnt conclude that the evidence showed it was 
medically necessary for Mr C to undergo bespoke surgery rather than standard hip 
replacement surgery. And it didnt think bespoke hip replacement surgery was best medical 
practice. Instead, it agreed to cover the costs of standard hip replacement surgery and the 
associated fees. But it told Mr C he would need to pay the remaining costs of the bespoke 
hip replacement surgery if he chose to proceed with it.
Mr C wasnt happy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He noted that the policy 
terms only covered conventional treatment. He didnt think there was enough medical 
evidence to show that standard hip replacement surgery wasnt suitable for Mr C. He 
acknowledged that bespoke surgery was Mr As first choice for Mr C, but he didnt think this 
showed that it was clinically necessary for Mr C to undergo bespoke implant surgery. On this 
basis, he felt AXAs offer to pay the costs of a standard hip replacement was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr C disagreed. In summary, he felt that Mr A had provided clinical evidence that standard 
hip replacement surgery was precluded in his circumstances. Scans he had undergone 
showed that his anatomy could be restored if he underwent bespoke surgery. Mr A had 
presented his work on bespoke implant hip replacement surgery and it was established 
practice at two hospitals. He said the NHS also used bespoke implants, which made them 
the best medical practice and clinically appropriate. He felt that bespoke hip implant surgery 
was a conventional treatment for his condition.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I think AXA has treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Cs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether AXA handled 
the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with AXA. The policy sets out the eligible treatments which AXA covers under the 
policy terms. AXA has defined what it means by an eligible treatment in section 3.2 of the 
policy. This says:
Eligible treatment is treatment of a disease, illness or injury where that treatment:
falls within the benefits of this plan and is not excluded from cover by any term in this
handbook; and
is of an acute condition; and
is conventional treatment; and
has been proven to be effective and safe 
is not preventativeand
does not cost more than an equivalent treatment that delivers a similar therapeutic or 
diagnostic outcome; and
is not provided or used primarily for the convenience or financial or other advantage 
of you or your specialist or other health professional.
Section 3.3 explains what AXA considers to be conventional treatment and Ive set out its 
definition below:
We cover treatment and surgery that is conventional treatment.
What do you mean by conventional treatment?
We define conventional treatment as treatment that:
is established as best medical practice, and is practised widely within the UK; and
is clinically appropriate in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration and 
the facility or location where the treatment is provided; and has either
been approved by NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) as a
treatment which may be used in routine practice; or
been proven to be effective and safe for the treatment of your medical condition 
through high-quality clinical trial evidence (full criteria available on request).
Following its review of the medical evidence Mr A provided in support of Mr Cs claim, AXA 
concluded that bespoke hip replacement wasnt a conventional treatment. Instead, it 
deemed the surgery to be an unproven treatment. The policy terms say that if there is no 
equivalent treatment to an unproven treatment, then no costs will be covered. However, the 
policy does provide some cover for unproven treatments and Ive set out the relevant term 
below:If we agree to pay for your unproven treatment, the amount we pay will depend on how 
much it costs and how much we would pay if you have conventional treatment for your 
medical condition instead.
If the unproven treatment costs less than the alternative conventional treatment we 
will pay the cost of the unproven treatment; or
If the unproven treatment costs more than the equivalent conventional treatment we 
will pay up to the cost we would have paid for the equivalent conventional treatment. 
We will pay up to the amount we would have paid a fee-approved specialist and 
hospital in the Directory of Hospitals. To understand what the equivalent conventional 
treatment is we will look at the treatment other patients with the same medical 
condition and prognosis would be given.
Theres no dispute that Mr Cs proposed surgery costs significantly more than standard hip 
replacement surgery. So AXA has agreed to cover the costs of standard hip replacement 
surgery, together with associated fees, in line with this section of the policy. I now need to 
assess the available evidence to decide whether it was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr Cs 
bespoke surgery wasnt a conventional treatment. And therefore, whether its offer to settle 
the claim in line with the unproven treatment section of the policy is reasonable.
When Mr C first made the claim, AXA told him that hed need to provide evidence from his 
treating specialist in support of his claim. Mr A provided AXA with a letter, Mr Cs scan report 
and a report evaluating the success of hip implant surgery in younger patients. Mr As first 
letter was dated 20 October 2021 and stated:
In this specialist practice I often encounter younger patients (under the age of 50) with early 
onset of unexplained Osteoarthritis. In those patients I organise a CT-guided hip plan in 
order to further understand the proximal femoral anatomy particularly with a view to
helitorsion as this informs me if the proximal femur has developed normally and will
accommodate a conventional stem, or as is often the case in the younger patient
cohort, the distortion of anatomy that defines dysplasia and is likely to have led to
osteoarthritis, precludes the use of a conventional single plane implant. In these cases,
based on the information from the CT hip plan, I feel that the custom hip is in the
patients best interest to restore function and prolong longevity of the implant
AXA referred the evidence to its clinical team for review. I think this was an appropriate 
course of action for AXA to take. Based on this initial evidence, the clinical team decided that 
it would not meet the costs of a bespoke implant. It didnt think there was evidence of a 
genuine, complex gross anatomy problem. Ive thought about this carefully. I appreciate Mr 
A has referred to younger patients in whom he has a noted the distortion of anatomy which 
defines dysplasia, which has likely led to osteoarthritis. In such patients, a standard hip 
replacement is precluded. However, Ive also borne in mind that Mr As comments do not 
appear to be specific to Mr Cs situation. And I note too that the letter doesnt specifically 
state that neither a standard hip replacement would be unsuitable for Mr C, nor that a 
bespoke replacement is medically necessary.
Following AXAs initial review of the claim, it wrote to Mr A to ask for further information 
about the proposed surgery. In particular, it said:
our policies will only pay for standard hip implants unless there is a genuine complex gross 
anatomy problem and clear evidence that a bespoke hip is proven necessary in the 
particular clinical circumstances of the patient.
AXA informed Mr A that bespoke implants would only generally be considered in extremely 
complex cases where a patient had a complex history. It explained that it would need to see evidence that a bespoke implant was needed. In my view, AXA clearly explained the type of 
evidence it required to show that a bespoke implant was medically necessary for Mr C. 
Mr A sent a follow-up letter dated 27 October 2021 and this says:
As is my practice in the NHS any adult who has developed primary osteoarthritis before the 
age of 50 is investigated to ensure there are no anatomical pre-dispositions for this and I use 
the software hip plan in order to do this. It allows me to assess the leg lengths, positioning of 
the implants and optimum implant positioning to maximise function and restore anatomy for 
my patients.
Mr A provided details about Mr Cs presentation and the intended outcome of the surgery. 
Ive also noted that Mr A stated that he wanted to give Mr C about +6mm of length during his 
first surgery, tweaking the balance during the second operation. He said:
+6mm of lengthening can only be achieved with a +8mm modular neck from our standard
component range and many clinicians like me will prefer not to use +8mm XL heads.
In conclusion, Mr A said: 
I do continue to use standard implants when the criteria are met but in his case it 
would not be my first choice. I hope based on this detailed assessment you will support 
our application to consider a custom hip replacement for Mr C. (Emphasis added.)
AXAs clinical team reviewed the further evidence, but it maintained that Mr A hadnt 
provided any evidence to show that a conventional hip replacement wasnt suitable for Mr C. 
And it also concluded that the report into bespoke implants Mr A had sent didnt indicate that 
bespoke implants were medically necessary or that they would be likely to achieve a better 
outcome in younger patients.
Ive weighed up the available evidence very carefully. Its clear that a bespoke implant would 
be Mr As first choice of treatment for Mr C. And I can entirely understand why, given his 
treating specialists opinion, Mr C would rather have the bespoke implant. But I dont think 
AXA assessed the medical evidence unfairly. I say that because Mr As letter doesnt 
suggest that Mr C is precluded from undergoing standard hip replacement surgery because 
of any gross anatomy issues or that conventional surgery would be unsuitable for him. 
Neither does Mr A indicate that its medically necessary for Mr C to have a bespoke hip 
implant, even if hed prefer him to do so. I think AXAs policy clearly sets out the eligible 
treatments it covers. And on the specific facts of this case, Im satisfied, based on the 
available evidence, that it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that a bespoke implant 
wasnt conventional treatment.
Mr A provided a report evaluating bespoke implants in younger patients. AXA felt that results 
were limited on this point. I accept that the report concluded that bespoke implants could 
provide excellent clinical outcomes in younger patients. But I dont find that this report states 
definitively that this will be the case. While I accept Mr C has referred to bespoke implants 
being used at two hospitals, I dont think I could fairly find that this indicates that bespoke 
implants are widely used or considered routine practice. And in any event, I still wouldnt be 
persuaded that Mr C has shown that a bespoke implant is medically necessary in this case.
I sympathise with Mr Cs position because I appreciate he would like to have the surgery 
done and I also understand hes previously postponed it while awaiting the outcome of his 
complaint. But overall, I dont think AXA acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr Cs 
bespoke implant surgery wasnt conventional surgery. And so I think its offer to pay the costs 
of standard hip replacement surgery is reasonable and in line with the policy terms and conditions. AXA has told Mr C that if he is able to provide further evidence which shows that 
a bespoke implant is medically necessary, it will consider his claim further. I think this is 
appropriate and reasonable. Its open to Mr C to obtain such evidence and pass it onto AXA 
should he wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman