DRN-3957447
The complaint
Mr Us complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to the service it provided 
when he applied for additional borrowing. He feels NBS caused delays to the application 
resulting in him being unable to secure additional funds he required for further home 
improvements.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr U applied to NBS, through his broker, for £20,000 of additional 
borrowing. His application was accepted and on 11 May NBS sent Mr U an Additional 
Borrowing Mortgage offer (original offer). This provided that he would have at least seven 
days from the date he received the offer to think about whether it met his needs. It also said 
that NBS would release the money to his account on or shortly after 23 May. Mr U says he 
didnt receive this offer until 14 May. 
Prior to receiving the offer, on 11 May, Mr Us broker emailed NBS to ask if Mr U could 
increase his further borrowing to £30,000 as he required the extra funds for further home 
improvements. 
NBS declined that request on 13 May NBS and emailed the broker to say that the application 
had reverted to accept and that a new offer had been produced. Another Additional 
Borrowing Mortgage offer (second offer) was then issued which set out the same 
information as the original offer, including the same date upon which the funds would be 
released. Mistakenly NBS marked the Completion stage as 19 May based on the original 
offer rather than the second offer.
On 16 May the broker emailed NBS to ask why Mr Us application to increase the loan had 
been declined and NBS responded that day confirming it was because that level of 
borrowing was deemed to be unaffordable for Mr U. NBS also said that the maximum 
affordability was £24,800 and if Mr U wished to proceed on that basis the broker could 
contact processing to request it.
On 20 May the broker asked for a second review providing further information and an 
affordability calculation arguing that the mortgage was affordable, but on 23 May NBS 
released the £20,000 additional borrowing to Mr Us account.
On 6 June NBS replied to the brokers second review request stating that the application had 
been declined because the matter was at completion stage, but also said Once the funds 
have been returned by the solicitor  you will need to call and have the case data amended. 
There was no reply to this communication from NBS and so on 8 August NBS asked the 
broker to clarify Mr Us intentions as to whether he was going to return the funds and re-
apply for a larger loan.
On 16 August the broker replied to say that the funds had not been returned because it had 
become unclear to [Mr U] what was happening as he was expecting the total of 30k at which 
point too much time had lapsed to return the funds.
NBS accepted that it had provided poor service in failing to adjust the seven-day period date 
in the second offer. In respect of that it offered Mr U £100 compensation. But it didnt accept 
that it had caused Mr U any further losses since it said his application could have been 
reconsidered if the funds had been returned and hed made a further application. 
Mr U was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation NBS offered was enough to put things right. Mr U 
didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U has said the major part of his complaint is that NBS failed to provide him with the 
original offer in a timely manner, and as such he didnt get the opportunity to consider it and 
respond. Mr U says he didnt know of the original offer until the 14 May, but I can see that 
the offer had also been sent to the broker electronically on 11 May. 
It is possible that Mr Us broker didnt notify Mr U of the original offer, but I think that unlikely 
because Ive seen an email from the broker to NBS, also on the 11 May, which requests an 
increase to the amount of borrowing. Its more likely than not that the broker therefore 
discussed the offer and the level of borrowing with Mr U when he received it. 
The original offer gave Mr U a seven-day period to reflect on the offer which expired on 18 
May, and NBS accept that having reviewed the application it mistakenly marked the 
Completion stage as 19 May based on the first offer. I understand that the second offer did 
not recite the correct seven-day period but at that point Mr U could still have declined the 
offer as it didnt meet his needs. 
NBS also accept that the broker contacted them on 20 May to again request the loan 
amount be increased but was told mistakenly that the application was at completion stage 
and the loan amount couldn't be changed. They further accept that at that point the funds 
had not been released and the application could have been referred back to the packaging 
stage' to allow amendments to be made to the loan amount. 
When Mr U received the loan funds on 23 May he would know that it wasnt the amount he 
wanted, because it was the original £20,000. At that point he would also know that his 
request for a review was outstanding and so it is reasonable to find that he should have held 
on to those funds until the outcome of the review. When the review concluded on 6 June 
Mr U was given the choice to return the funds and make another application, but it seems he 
chose not to because there was no further communication from either him of his broker until 
16 August when NBS chased matters.
 
So, although NBS did make a mistake, Mr U was given the opportunity of making a further 
application to see if he could secure the amount of funding he wanted, which placed him 
back into the position he would have been. As Mr U chose not to do that, I cannot find that 
any losses he feels he has now incurred are as a result of NBS error.NBS has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Mr U 
with £100. As Mr U didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some 
further thought. I have considered that Mr U was effectively placed back into the position he 
should have been and in so doing I view NBS error as minor and the offer of recompense as 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay Mr U £100 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay 
Mr U £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman