DRN-3034727
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold an Advance Account (AA) in September 2010 by 
HSBC Bank Plc trading as HSBC (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C says that she was told she had to take out the AA to get an overdraft. She says she 
was declined the overdraft and didnt use any of the other benefits.
Mrs C says the account fee caused her to go overdrawn and incur charges. And she says 
she tried to cancel the AA but was told she couldnt do so.
HSBC says that Mrs C took the account out online without speaking to its staff, and it closed 
the AA when requested to do so.  It says no charges were incurred if the account fee caused 
the account to go overdrawn.
This sale took place many years ago and I wasnt present at the time, so I can only base my 
decision on the information available today.
Mrs C had a fee free account for many years before taking out the AA, so she knew these 
were available. Also, fee free accounts with overdrafts were widely available and advertised 
at the time.
Mrs C says that a conversation took place where she was promised an overdraft if she took 
out the AA. Although I dont doubt Mrs Cs honest recollections, I think its more likely than 
not that her memory of this may be incorrect. I say this because both parties agree that Mrs 
C applied for an overdraft at the time and it was turned down. And I think its more likely than 
not that Mrs C wouldve complained about this at the time but there is no record of her 
having done so and she kept the account for nearly two years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs C knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
AA and she chose to do so.
Ive not seen any record of any advice being given by HSBC; and HSBC has provided 
evidence that Mrs C took out the AA online. So, I think its more likely than not no advice or 
recommendation was made.
This means that HSBC was only required to give Mrs C enough information to make an 
informed decision about the AA.
And I think it did. I say this because the online application process would have explained the 
correct costs and benefits to Mrs C and required her to read them before she confirmed her 
application.
Mrs C says the AA fees caused her to incur additional overdraft fees. But HSBC has 
submitted evidence that it didnt charge overdraft fees that were caused by the account fee 
making the balance exceed any limit.
Mrs C also says she tried to close the AA, but HSBC wouldnt do so. Ive not seen any 
evidence of Mrs C contacting HSBC about this or HSBC refusing to close the AA. Mrs C 
couldve closed the AA within the 14-day cooling period, or any time after the 12-month initial 
period. But she had the account for 2 years. So, in my view, I cant say I think its more likely 
than not that HSBC refused to close the account throughout that time as I would need to do 
if I were to uphold her complaint on that point. 
So, I think its more likely than not that HSBC didnt do anything wrong in this case.
For completeness, Mrs C has referred during this case to excessive account fees and 
financial difficulties. This has not been the subject of her original complaint or HSBCs final 
response letter and is not the subject of this decision. So, if Mrs C has a complaint about 
those matters, she would need to take it up with HSBC first and could bring them to this 
service if they are unresolved.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman