DRN-3376062
The complaint
Mr T complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund a disputed transaction made from his 
account. Hed like the transaction refunded and compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
In July 2020 a £60 payment was made to a mobile phone company Ill call S from Mr Ts 
account. 
On 10 July 2020 Mr T contacted Metro and complained about the payment, advising he 
hadnt authorised it. Metro agreed to raise a dispute for Mr T  and on 13 July 2020 Mr T 
shared several numerous conversations hed had with S, where hed tried to cancel the 
order  and asked for a refund. 
Between July and December 2020 Mr T made several phone calls to Metro regarding his 
claim. Initially Metro advised Mr T that hed raised his claim outside of the 120 day window. 
But on Mr T complaining Metro identified their error, reviewed their decision, and refunded 
Mr T's £60 on 24 December 2020. 
Mr T was frustrated with the amount of time Metro took before providing a refund, so 
complained to our service.
On Mr T bringing his complaint to our service, Metro accepted theyd provided poor service 
in refunding Mr T the lost funds. And offered £25 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr T didnt accept the offer, and our investigator looked into his complaint. He explained that 
the lack of refund negatively impacted on his mental health. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint, and thought that Metro needed to do more to 
put things right. He recommended that the bank pay Mr T £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response he said:
Because of his poor mental health he lost out on three days of work, and hed like 
this  and the cost of travel  as compensation
He had to email and phone Metro on a number of occasions
They didnt keep him updated with what was happening with his dispute
As Mr T didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro have accepted they made an error in initially failing to refund the £60 payment made 
in July 2020. Therefore I wont be considering this part of Mr Ts complaint. 
Instead Ill be considering the inconvenience caused to Mr T, by Metros delay in refunding 
the payment, and what I think is fair and reasonable compensation. 
I can see that the delay in the refund was frustrating for Mr T  and caused him 
inconvenience in having to phone Metro on a number of occasions. Which its unlikely hed 
have needed to do if Metro had actioned the dispute appropriately. 
Mr Ts explained that hed like to be compensated around £600, because his mental health 
was negatively impacted and he was unable to attend work for three days. Hes argued that 
Metro were aware that he experienced mental health difficulties  and the delay in the refund 
would negatively impact this  but having listened to the calls I havent been able to identify 
any mention of this. As Ive already explained I agree that Mr T was caused inconvenience 
by Metros actions, but I cant say  on balance  that Metros actions prevented him from 
successfully going to work. I also not seen any evidence that Mr T was caused financial 
difficulties by Metros failure to refund the £60 sooner  for this reason I think £50 
compensation is fair. 
Putting things right
I think that Mr T was caused inconvenience by Metros actions. I understand hell be 
disappointed by my recommendation, but Im satisfied that £50 compensation is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Pay Mr T £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman