DRN-3177379
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money he paid a company 
(C) which he now thinks was a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mr B authorised the payments to C. So in line with the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting point is that hes liable for any loss 
incurred from these.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice, Id expect HSBC 
to look out for indications that its customers are at risk from fraud. But when simply 
executing authorised payments, it doesnt have to protect customers against the 
risk of bad bargains or give advice. So Ive first considered whether C was a 
fraudster, rather than  as it presented itself  a company offering the opportunity to 
earn money by flipping advertisements.
Whilst Mr B thinks C was a scam company, Ive not seen enough to show its actions 
meet the high legal threshold for this under the Fraud Act 2006  i.e. that it 
dishonestly made a false representation and/or failed to disclose information with the 
intent of making a gain for itself, or causing loss to another or exposing another to the 
risk of loss. Thats a higher threshold than a company which perhaps used 
unethical tactics, or didnt provide the services its customers paid for  but without 
setting out with that intent. 
C was genuinely registered on Companies House, meaning it had premises and put 
out public information about the owners. And it seems Mr B only experienced 
problems once it stopped trading, having first submitted the proper notice for this.
Overall, I dont have enough to show C intended to defraud Mr B, rather than it being 
a legitimate company that ran into financial difficulty. So I consider it reasonable that 
HSBC simply acted on Mr Bs authorised payment instructions. I cant fairly say it had 
a duty to intervene. 
Ive also considered if HSBC ought to have done more to help Mr B recover his loss. 
Debit card payments are covered by the chargeback scheme. This is a voluntary 
scheme whereby the card-scheme provider  in this case, VISA  decides how to 
resolve payment disputes. HSBC isnt obliged to raise a chargeback claim. But Id 
consider it good industry practice to do so if the claim was likely to succeed. 
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC didnt raise a chargeback claim for him. It says this was 
because he raised the dispute more than 120 days after he made the transactions  
which is one of the time limits that applies to certain chargeback reasons under 
VISAs rules. Mr B made these payments May-July 2018. The earliest record I have 
of him telling HSBC about his dispute is in August 2019  so more than 120 days 
later. Mr B says he spoke to HSBC about this over the phone first, but still after C 
had closed. So it was more than 120 days from the transaction, and from when Mr B 
first received the service. 
That said, there are some circumstances in which VISA will consider chargebacks 
more than 120 days after the transaction  up to a maximum of 540 days later. To 
see whether any such circumstances might apply here, I asked Mr B for further 
information about his contract with C. It would always be down to him to demonstrate 
that he had a reasonable claim to put forward. Mr B hasnt provided anything further. 
Im therefore not persuaded its likely his claim would have succeeded, as hes not 
shown he would have been able to provide the evidence needed to support his claim. 
So I dont think he lost out because HSBC didnt put his claim forward.
Mr B also says HSBC should refund him under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. I cant see hes raised a section 75 claim with HSBC, so this isnt strictly 
something which falls within the parameters of this case. But in any event, Id point 
out that he paid by debit card, rather than a credit agreement covered by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. So this isnt a relevant consideration here.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded HSBCs acts or omissions contributed to, or 
caused, the loss Mr B has unfortunately suffered. So I cant fairly hold it liable for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman