DRN-2042301
The complaint
Mr H complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled his claim for 
a cashback reward on his bank account.
What happened
Mr H holds a bank account with NatWest which makes him eligible to claim cashback on 
certain transactions. 
In April 2019, Mr H paid for a subscription to stream a TV channel over the internet. He 
thought he was entitled to £4.50 cashback based on an advert hed received from NatWest, 
so he made a claim for the reward. 
However, NatWest declined to pay it because it said the transaction wasnt eligible. Unhappy 
with this, Mr H raised a complaint. In response, NatWest maintained that the right decision 
had been made on the claim, because the type of transaction Mr H paid for was eligible on 
first time purchases only. So, where Mr H had made a repeat purchase, the cashback was 
excluded according to the terms of the offer at the time.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he referred the complaint to our service. Following this, NatWest 
reiterated that the cashback claim was rightfully declined  however, it said that it had given 
the wrong reason to Mr H. NatWest said that the transaction was in fact ineligible, as the 
offer in place at the time excluded any transactions to the particular subscription Mr H paid 
for which uses a broadband service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and upheld the complaint. She 
wasnt satisfied that the terms of the offer meant that an exclusion could be fairly applied to 
Mr Hs transaction. Therefore, she recommended that Mr H be paid the cashback reward. 
Also, in light of the service he received, she thought NatWest ought to award £30 
compensation. NatWest agreed with this recommendation. 
Mr H accepts that the cashback should be paid  but does not agree that a £30 award of 
compensation is enough. He submits that NatWest falsely misrepresented offers to 
customers and had multiple opportunities to admit its mistake. Also, that hes spent time and 
effort trying to resolve the situation. 
So, in his view, NatWest should compensate him more like a £100. Especially, because our 
service recommended a similar award in what Mr H sees as a comparable complaint. 
Our investigator was still not persuaded and was confident what shed recommended is fair 
and reasonable. Because Mr H is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its my understanding that neither Mr H nor NatWest disagree that the £4.50 cashback 
reward should be paid. Where both parties no longer dispute this, I do not deem it necessary 
to focus on this aspect of the case. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator has reached and for the same reasons, i.e. there doesnt appear a fair 
reason why the reward claim Mr H made should be excluded. 
Consequently, whats left for me to determine is whether NatWest should award Mr H 
compensation for the service he received. And, if it should, what amount this should be. 
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had.
Its always difficult to reach a precise figure on whats fair compensation for non-financial
impacts like distress or inconvenience. Different circumstances can cause, and indeed will 
often cause, people to be affected in different ways to what may seem, on the face of it, to 
be the same or a similar problem. So, it may be reasonable to award different amounts of 
compensation. 
This means that, rather than applying a blanket approach to compensation  or requiring an 
award the same as a not too dissimilar complaint  its vitally important to think carefully 
about the individual circumstances of the case and how what went wrong impacted that 
particular individual. 
Therefore, although Mr H may have had previous complaints that are possibly akin to this 
case; I nevertheless have to consider any award based on the individual circumstances of 
this complaint  which will naturally differ from that of a prior dispute. 
Considering the sequence of events, it strikes me that NatWest misinformed Mr H. Indeed, it 
didnt initially correctly determine the rationale behind turning down the cashback claim. Yet, 
this doesnt appear to be the first time that Mr H has had to raise a dispute with NatWest 
about a transaction for the same service. In any event, I cannot ignore that dealing with the 
claim appropriately couldve saved Mr H the inconvenience caused by having to ask once 
more for the reward to be paid. 
Mr H claims to have been promised that NatWest would call him back  which didnt 
transpire. And, based on whats before me, Im not convinced that NatWest always 
reasonably communicated with him. So, overall, Im persuaded that NatWest shouldve 
handled this claim better than it did. In light of the service provided, Im satisfied an award of 
compensation should be given.  
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended an award of £30 compensation. Its my judgment that this is 
a proportionate reflection of the impact caused to Mr H. So, it follows that I uphold this 
element of the complaint, and I think the compensation recommended by our investigator is 
fair in the circumstances. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc 
to:
pay Mr Hs claim for the £4.50 cashback reward;
and award him a total of £30 compensation
So, National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr H the above, within 28 days of receiving 
notice from us of his acceptance of this decision, failing which interest will start to accrue on 
these amounts  or any unpaid proportion  at the simple rate of 8% a year (less any tax 
properly deductible) until the date of payment. 
Mr H should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding and he wouldnt be 
able to take further action over these matters. If, however, he rejects the decision or doesnt 
reply on time, his legal rights will remain intact.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman