DRN-4055878
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax incorrectly dealt with his 
chargeback request which resulted in an amount being re-debited to his account after he 
had undertaken a balance transfer. He says this caused him financial difficulty and 
significant distress and health issues.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr Q raised a chargeback claim with Halifax as the hotel he had recently 
visited had charged him for breakfasts he hadnt had. In July 2022, Mr Q transferred the 
balance on his Halifax credit card account to another account which had a 34-month interest 
free period. Mr Q then received notification from Halifax to say his chargeback had been 
rejected. When he contacted Halifax, he discovered it had incorrectly requested a 
chargeback for the full cost of Mr Qs stay rather than the cost of the breakfasts. Mr Qs 
chargeback for the breakfasts was then accepted but Mr Qs Halifax account was re-debited 
£605.36 (difference between the full credit applied in June and the accepted chargeback 
amount). Mr Q says he couldnt afford to repay the re-debited amount and so he had a 
balance on his Halifax account incurring interest which would have been transferred to the 
other credit card with the interest free period had the mistake not been made.
Halifax issued a final response letter dated 24 August 2022. It apologised for not providing 
the service it should have and arranged to pay Mr Q £75. It said that it credited Mr Qs 
account with £708.43 instead of £103.07 in June and Mr Q didnt challenge this. While it 
noted it was its error to said Mr Q was never entitled to this money and so it was reasonable 
that £605.36 was re-debited. Halifax acknowledged that had a mistake not been made, Mr Q 
could have included the amount in his balance transfer and added a six-month interest 
waiver to his account.
Mr Q wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator upheld this complaint. She issued an initial view 
explaining that although the chargeback dispute was ultimately successful, Halifaxs mistake 
meant that Mr Q wasnt able to transfer £605.36 to the credit card with the 34-month interest 
free period. Because of this she recommended that Halifax should (additional to the 
compensation already paid), ensure Mr Q paid no interest on this amount for as long as the 
term that applied to the transferred funds. Halifax responded to this view saying that Mr Qs 
outstanding balance had been reduced and due to system limitations, it was unable to apply 
the interest free period for 34 months. 
Our investigator issued a second view recommending that as a 34-month interest free period 
couldnt be applied - and noting the circumstances of this complaint - the fair resolution was 
for Mr Qs outstanding balance of the disputed amount to be written off along with any 
interest charged on it and for any negative information recorded on Mr Qs credit file in 
regard to this amount to be removed. 
Halifax accepted this. Mr Q thought more needed to be done. He said he had reduced the 
balance on the account as he had returned a mattress that he had needed due to an injury 
he had sustained. He said that Halifax was aware when this issue arose that he was in 
financial difficulty, and he says this was the only option available to him to reduce his 
balance. He said had Halifax acted correctly in regard to his claim then the correct amount 
would have been transferred and he could have kept his mattress and received the 34-
month interest free period on his balance. He said his complaint had been ongoing for 
several months and this had caused him a great deal of stress and his health issues had got 
worse due to no longer having the mattress. He wanted his balance written off and a refund 
for the funds he received for the mattress refund as well as a formal apology.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q raised a chargeback request in June 2022. This was for breakfasts he had been 
charged for while staying at a hotel. This chargeback request was, in the end, accepted. 
However, before this, Halifax incorrectly raised a chargeback for the full cost of Mr Qs hotel 
stay  a claim that was rejected. It is accepted that it was Halifaxs mistake that the 
chargeback was raised for the incorrect amount and so I have considered the impact of this 
and what actions it is reasonable to require Halifax to undertake to put Mr Q back in the 
position he would have been had the mistake not been made.
As the chargeback was raised for the incorrect amount, an initial credit for the full amount 
was applied to Mr Qs account. Mr Q has explained that his circumstances changed in 
January 2022 as he suffered an injury and so he was taking steps to manage his finances. 
As part of this he undertook a balance transfer from his Halifax account to another credit 
card provider in July 2022 that offered 34-months interest free on the balance transfer 
amount.
Following the rejection of the initial chargeback claim, Halifax said Mr Qs account would be 
re-debited. I agree this is the usual process when a chargeback has been rejected, but as 
shown by the subsequent acceptance of the reduced chargeback claim, had the correct 
amount been requested at the outset, Mr Qs account would have received the reduced 
credit in June and then no re-debit in August. Due to the mistake, Mr Qs account was re-
debited £605.36 in August 2022. While I agree that the £708.43 was incorrectly applied to 
Mr Qs account in June and Mr Q didnt raise this at the time and that Halifax was within its 
rights to take this money back, I can also see this process meant that Mr Q lost out on being 
able to transfer the net balance of £605.36 (along with the rest of his balance at the time) to 
the credit card with the 34-month interest free period.
Mr Q has explained he was struggling financially and so wasnt able to pay off the £605.36 
balance and while Halifax did offer a six-month interest freeze, I agree this wasnt enough. 
Our investigator recommended that an interest freeze in line with the 34-month interest free 
period be applied to this amount. Halifax explained this wasnt possible and so I find it 
reasonable a further solution was recommended.
Mr Q has explained that due to his concerns about not being able to pay the £605.36 
balance, he returned a mattress he had acquired that was still within its return timeframe. I 
understand this wasnt an action that Mr Q wanted to take but he was trying to mitigate his 
situation and I appreciate that the return of the mattress has had a knock-on effect on Mr Qs 
health following his injury. However, I have to consider what I can hold Halifax responsible 
for and, as I have noted, it was within its rights to re-debit the amount it incorrectly applied to 
Mr Qs account.Given the above and noting Mr Qs circumstances and the stress the issue has caused (and 
also appreciating the time it has been ongoing) I think the fairest resolution is for Mr Qs 
outstanding balance in regard to this issue (which Halifax noted as being £254.45 in its 
response dated 15 February 2023) to be waived along with any interest charged. And for 
any negative information recorded on Mr Qs credit file in regard to this transaction to be 
removed. Halifax paid Mr Q compensation of £75 in August 2022. I think this is a fair 
resolution. I know Mr Q feels he should also be refunded the amount he received for the 
returned mattress, but I do not find this is required as Halifax is already allowing him to not 
repay an amount that was incorrectly credited to his account.
Putting things right
Halifax should, as it has agreed, waive the remaining balance in regard to this transaction on 
Mr Qs account (it has confirmed no interest has been charged on this amount) and remove 
any negative information recorded on his credit file in regard on this amount.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should take the actions set 
out above, as it has agreed, in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman