DRN-2785072
The complaint
Mr H complains about Easi-Drive Limited and the way they handled his claim after his car 
was deemed a total loss following a non-fault road traffic accident.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr H was involved in a road traffic accident. As Mr H wasnt at fault, ED 
were instructed to manage his claim and reclaim any costs from the third-party insurer (TPI).
ED arranged for Mr Hs car to be inspected by an independent engineer, who Ill refer to as 
B. B deemed the car to be a total loss, and estimated Mr Hs car to have a pre-accident 
value (PAV) of £6,040, less the salvage value. During the time Mr Hs car was inspected by 
B, he was provided a hire car by ED.
The report compiled by B was sent to the TPI, who issued an interim payment. As a payment 
had been made, ED made arrangement to collect Mr Hs hire car. But Mr H was unhappy 
with this, as he was unhappy with the PAV. 
Mr H spoke directly with B and explained why he thought the PAV was too low. B agreed 
and produced two new reports which provided new PAVs of £7,000 and £8,020, less the 
salvage value. Mr H accepted the higher PAV and ED sent this new valuation, along with Bs 
report and rationale, to the TPI so they could raise the additional payment. But the TPI 
refused, saying they thought the initial PAV was a fair valuation. And they also explained if 
the higher valuation was used, they thought the car should be repaired instead. B responded 
explaining why they didnt think a repair was suitable and ED forwarded this to the TPI. But 
the TPIs position remained the same. Mr H was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr H complained about the payment he received from the TPI. He thought this was too low 
and left him without the ability to purchase a suitable replacement. And he was unhappy that 
the hire car had been collected even though he hadnt received an acceptable PAV. He 
thought the advisors hed spoke to at ED had been rude and has given his conflicting 
information. In particular, he was unhappy an advisor has told him ED would pay him the 
additional amount and reclaim this from the TPI. He was also unhappy with how long the 
process had taken and that he still found himself without the correct PAV amount after so 
long.
ED upheld Mr Hs complaint in part. They thought theyd done all they could to secure the 
higher PAV amount from the TPI and explained this was now with Mr Hs solicitors to claim 
as an uninsured loss alongside his personal injury (PI) claim. They also thought theyd 
collected Mr Hs hire car fairly, in the line with General Terms of Agreement set by the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI), by arranging collection within seven days of an interim 
payment being made by the TPI.
But they did think theyd failed to update Mr H reasonably and they thought theyd failed to 
explain the PAV process clearly to Mr H. To recognise this, they offered to pay Mr H £150 to 
recognise the stress and upset this wouldve caused. Mr H remained unhappy, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained he looked at the 
complaint using the approach set by the regulator at the time, which in this case was the 
Claims Management Regulator (CMR). And under this approach, B were considered 
independent, so ED couldnt be held responsible for any errors B made. So, while he 
accepted there was an issue with the original PAV produced by B, he didnt think this was 
the fault of ED. And he thought ED had done all they could to obtain an additional payment 
from the TPI. He explained it was the TPI who were refusing to pay and that he didnt hold 
ED responsible for this.
He also thought ED had acted fairly, in line with the terms set by the ABI, when collecting the 
hire car, so couldnt say ED had done anything wrong by doing so. But he did recognise ED 
hadnt made the PAV process clear to Mr H. And he recognised how this wouldve impacted 
Mr H, especially during the difficult personal circumstances Mr H was suffering at the time. 
But he thought the £150 ED offered was a reasonable amount to compensate Mr H for the 
trouble and upset. So, he didnt think ED needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He thought ED had purposefully failed to provide call recordings of 
conversations hed had with them. And he maintained his view that his car shouldve be 
valued correctly by B initially and if it had of been, he wouldnt be left out of pocket now. He 
didnt think the £150 was enough to acknowledge ED not explaining the PAV process, or 
that they wouldnt cover the additional payment. As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr H. I appreciate its been a
significant amount of time since the accident took place. And I can understand how
frustrating it will have been to still be without the additional payment that will provide him with 
the full PAV he accepted. I recognise that Mr H views ED as the business responsible for 
managing his claim. And as his claim still hasnt been settled in the way he wanted, I can 
understand why Mr H feels ED are responsible. But, in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And
complaints about AMCs were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the accident the led to the events Mr H is 
complaining about took place before this change in regulation, my decision must be based 
on the approach the Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken.
Under the rules set by the Claims Management Regulator, and the approach taken by the
Legal Ombudsman, AMCs such as ED arent deemed to be responsible for the
decisions made by independent engineers such as B. So, Im unable to consider whether B
acted unfairly when they initially estimated a much lower PAV than the one which Mr H later 
agreed. My decision is only able to focus on the actions ED took and the service they 
provided to Mr H directly. Even though I cant say ED are responsible for the decision made by B in its report, I can consider whether ED considered Mr Hs disputes about it. And I think 
they did.
Ive seen ED sent both reports detailing the increased PAV and rationale by B to the TPI. 
And when the TPI didnt respond or raised concerns, I can see ED responded as Id expect 
them to. Ultimately, it was the TPIs decision not to accept the increased PAV and pay Mr H 
the additional amount. I wouldnt expect ED to pay this themselves. I understand Mr H feels 
ED told him they would do this, but I havent heard anything in the calls Ive been provided 
that shows this. 
Thats not to say I dont believe Mr H. I recognise ED had accepted themselves the 
information they provided to Mr H around the PAV wasnt as clear as theyd expect. But, 
even if ED did tell Mr H theyd pay the additional amount, I dont think this means they 
should. As the claim was made on a non-fault basis, it is the TPIs responsibility to pay Mr 
Hs costs. So, in the situation where they dont do this, Mr Hs complaint is about the TPI, not 
ED. Ive seen ED have referred the disputed PAV amount to Mr Hs solicitors, who are 
included this as part of his PI claim. And from what Ive seen, this dispute is now proceeding 
through the courts. This is the action Id expect ED to take. Because of this, I dont think ED 
need to do anything more regarding the PAV.
Ive also considered Mr Hs concerns around the collection of his hire car. Hes unhappy the 
hire car was taken back when the PAV was in dispute. But Ive seen the TPI made an interim 
payment on 9 January 2019. And Mr Hs hire car was collected on 18 January 2019. 
Although this wasnt the full PAV amount Mr H wanted, once a payment had been received 
from the TPI Mr H had a duty to mitigate his losses. And the rules set by the ABI state that a 
customer should be removed from hire no later than seven days after a payment has been 
received.
If Mr H had remained in hire after this time, and the TPI disputed the costs of the hire, under 
the credit hire agreement Mr H signed with ED, he wouldve ultimately been responsible for 
these costs. So, I think ED were acting in Mr Hs best interest by collecting the hire car to 
protect him from this risk. Ive also seen from Mr Hs comments that hed rarely used the car, 
so I dont think having the hire car removed wouldve impacted him significantly. For these 
reasons, I cant say that ED did anything wrong and because of this, I dont think they need 
to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then considered Mr Hs complaints about the delays hes encountered, and the customer 
service his experienced. Im aware ED have accepted that the service they provided Mr D 
fell short of what theyd expect. And they offered Mr H £150 to recognise this, which he 
hasnt accepted. So, Ive thought about whether this offer is a fair one, to recognise the 
upset Mr H wouldve been caused from the errors Ive seen.
While I recognise the claim has taken a long time to settle, and the PAV dispute is still 
ongoing, I dont think this is because of anything ED have done wrong. Without the PAV 
dispute, which was caused by Bs initial low PAV estimation and the TPIs reluctance to pay 
the difference, I think its likely the claim wouldve been settle in a reasonable time frame. I 
cant see evidence to show the claim has been delayed by anything ED has done wrong. So, 
I dont think I can hold ED responsible for this. 
Ive listened to the calls provided by ED. I recognise Mr H thinks some calls have been 
purposefully omitted, but Ive got no evidence to show this is the case. That being said, Ive 
considered Mr Hs testimony and his comments about what was discusses in these calls he 
doesnt feel have been provided. And having done so, I think its clear there has been some 
confusion around the PAV process, and what this meant for Mr H in both receiving the 
additional amount and the return of his hire car. As Ive explained above, I dont think ED have done anything wrong in collecting the hire car, 
or not covering the additional amount Mr H is disputing with the TPI. But I do think ED 
couldve been clearer with Mr H. And had this been the case, I dont think Mr H wouldve felt 
the need to have chased ED as much as he did, which I can appreciate wouldve been 
frustrating and stressful. I also think this confusion meant Mr H believed he was due to 
receive the additional amount for a period of time and when this didnt happen, I think this 
wouldve been upsetting. So, I think ED should compensate Mr H for this. ED offered Mr H 
£150 to do this. I think this offer is a fair and is in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not 
already been made. Because of this, I dont think ED need to do anything more. It is Mr Hs 
decision whether he accepts this offer moving forward.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt help him 
obtain the additional PAV amount he is looking for. But I hope it goes some way to 
explaining EDs role in the claim and why I dont think they were responsible for the 
difficulties Mr H experienced. Im aware Mr H is now pursuing his claim against the TPI 
legally and I hope this process will help assist Mr H in obtaining the payment he believes he 
is due.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Easi-Drive Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman