DRN-2352847
The complaint
Mr M has complained that West Wales Financial Services Limited (trading as JM Wealth) 
gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension 
scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a personal pension plan 
(PPP). Mr M says that the transfer wasnt in his best interests. 
Mr M would like to be returned to the position he would now be in, but for the advice given to 
him to transfer.  
What happened
 Mr M was introduced to JM Wealth by a colleague, on the basis that he was uncertain about 
the future of the BSPS. Mr M first met with JM Wealth in August 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) had made the announcement that the 
terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That 
announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size 
could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  
the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as 
a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by 11 
December 2017. This was subsequently extended to 22 December 2017.
Mr Ms circumstances were recorded in a fact find document, dated 14 August 2017, as 
follows:
He was 36 years old (soon to be 37), married and had two children, both of whom 
were financially dependent.
He was employed, earning £46,000 pa, and Mrs M was also employed, earning 
£30,000 pa.
He owned his home, worth around £290,000, which was encumbered by a mortgage 
of £89,000. He also had a car loan of £15,000.
He had cash savings of £5,000.
His attitude to risk was recorded as being low-medium.
Mr M didnt have a great deal of investment experience, but had some 
understanding.
Mr M had been a member of the BSPS for 11 years.
Mr M had joined the employers defined contribution scheme which had replaced the 
defined benefit BSPS.
Mr M had an anticipated retirement age of 60.
In terms of Mr Ms deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, at 
which point JM Wealth said that he could expect an annual income of £11,869, or tax free 
cash of £52,441 and a reduced income of £7,866 pa.
If Mr M retired at age 60, JM Wealth estimated that he would receive £8,602 pa, or tax free 
cash of £39,372 with a reduced annual income of £5,905.
Mr M received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £123,620 in July 
2017.
Within the suitability report issued in September 2017, Mr Ms objectives were recorded as 
follows:
To control the level of income he would receive in retirement. As he had many years 
until retirement, and Mrs M had her own pension provision, Mr M was recorded as 
being prepared to take the risk of transferring his deferred benefits.
He wanted to retire by age 60, and to have the flexibility to take his benefits in the 
most tax efficient manner.
He wanted the death benefits from his pension to be passed to his children.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It 
concluded that the PPP would need to grow by 6.4% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a 
retirement age of 65, or 5.36% pa if tax free cash was taken.
At a retirement age of 60, the PPP would need to grow by 7.08% pa to match the BSPS 
benefits, or 5.87% if tax free cash was taken.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 4.79% pa to match the PPF benefits, or 
4.51% if tax free cash was taken. 
JM Wealth also provided the hurdle rate, which it said was the estimated annual 
investment return which the PPP would need to achieve to match the annual income Mr M 
would receive from the BSPS at age 60. This assumed no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment, and no guarantee. The hurdle rate was 3.59% with no tax free cash, and 2.92% if 
tax free cash was taken.
The fee to complete the transfer value analysis was £1,500, which would be taken from the 
pension fund. There would also be an ongoing advice fee of 0.5% pa.
JM Wealth recommended that Mr M transfer his deferred benefits in order for him to achieve 
his objectives, and Mr M accepted the recommendation. In October 2017, discharge forms 
were sent to the BSPS, and Mr M received confirmation from the Zurich, the PPP provider, 
that it had received the application to set up the policy and receive the transfer.
In December 2017, JM Wealth contacted Mr M to tell him that, due to a review being 
conducted by the FCA, it couldnt continue to process the transfer. It signposted Mr M to 
another company, the Pension Review Service (PRS), if he wished to proceed with the 
transfer.
Zurich then confirmed that it had informed the administrators of the BSPS that outstanding 
transfers should no longer be processed. However, Zurich then confirmed that Mr Ms 
transfer had been completed.In an email from West Wales Financial Services to the investigator, it added that, by the time 
it contacted Mr M in December 2017 to confirm the review by the FCA, the deferred benefits 
had already been transferred by the BSPS. It said that the transfer couldnt be stopped, as 
the funds had been sent to Zurich, but that Mr M was content with this.
JM Wealth has also confirmed that as the transfer couldnt be stopped, the funds were 
received by Zurich as per the original advice, and that the fees were paid as per the original 
fee agreement.
Mr M complained to JM Wealth, and in its reply it addressed the separate matter of the 
failure to properly invest Mr Ms pension funds, along with a lack of annual reviews. But Mr M 
also complained about the advice to transfer, as set out above. 
Our investigation
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered the matter, 
and recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said the following in summary:
The discharge form which JM Wealth sent to the BSPS was issued before the 
formers letter to Mr M in December 2017 about the FCA review. And the opening 
statement from Zurich also confirmed that the advice fee had been paid. It was the 
investigators view that JM Wealth was responsible for the advice and the 
subsequent transfer.
Mr M had accrued benefits in the BSPS which would translate into a guaranteed 
income for life. They would form a significant part of his pension provision. 
The regulators requirement when considering a transfer of defined benefits was that 
it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
In determining whether this was the case, she first considered the required critical 
yield to match the scheme benefits. Although JM Wealth hadnt carried out a 
comparison with the benefits which might be expected from the BSPS 2, she 
considered that it was reasonable to assume that the critical yields for this would be 
somewhere between the BSPS and the PPF.
The advice had been given after the regulator had published its updated redress 
methodology in October 2017, with which businesses could calculate future 
discount rates for complaints about transfers which were being upheld.
Whilst business werent required to use these when giving advice, they nevertheless 
provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at the time of the 
advice.
The investigator noted that the discount rate was 4.7% pa for a period of 28 years to 
retirement at age 65, compared to a required critical yield to match the BSPS 
benefits of 5.36%, or 4.51% to match those in the PPF (all assuming tax free cash 
was taken).
For earlier retirement, the discount rate decreased, whilst the critical yield figures 
increased.
She said that this meant the potential to improve on the BSPS benefits was therefore 
limited  the critical yield was too high. This had also been acknowledged by JM 
Wealth in the suitability report in which it said that pension funds would need to 
achieve a rate of growth higher than that which was likely to be achievable. 
So she considered it unlikely that the PPP would be able to return sufficient growth to 
improve upon the relinquished benefits. And to do so would have meant exposing Mr 
Ms pension funds to a higher level of risk than he was willing to take.
In reaching that conclusion, she noted his low-medium attitude to risk, his lack of 
prior investment experience and absence of assets other than savings in his bank account. She didnt think that Mr M was in a position to sustain any losses with his 
pension funds.
The investigator also commented upon the spouses benefits within the BSPS which 
would be relinquished upon transferring, along with the ongoing charges associated 
with the PPP, which had increased the critical yield figures.
But the investigator nevertheless considered whether there were other compelling 
reasons as to why a transfer would have been suitable for Mr M.
But whilst the she appreciated the point in the suitability report about the flexibility 
produced by the PPP in terms of taking income, she wasnt persuaded that this 
justified relinquishing the guaranteed benefits within the OPS.
She also wasnt satisfied that the suitability report placed sufficient emphasis on the 
guarantees being relinquished through the transfer.
Nor was she persuaded by a rationale for transferring relating to early retirement, 
which she noted would have been possible through the BSPS 2  and could in any 
case have been addressed when Mr M was closer to retirement. 
Having concluded that the transfer advice was unsuitable, the investigator recommended 
that JM Wealth undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators guidance, 
on the basis that Mr M would have transferred into the BSPS 2. 
With regard to Mr Ms complaints about the errors in investing his pension funds once 
transferred, the investigator said that this had been addressed by Zurich topping up Mr Ms 
plan value. And so this would be accounted for within the recommended redress 
methodology.
She also noted that, in respect of the servicing complaint, JM Wealth had already refunded 
the adviser fee and ongoing charges to Mr M in cash. As these deductions would ordinarily 
have been accounted for by way of a proportionate reduction in the PPPs fund value 
(meaning a greater loss, if any), but had also been refunded to Mr M separately, the 
investigator said that JM Wealth would be entitled to deduct the combined refunded amount 
of the £1,500 initial fee and the charges from any redress due.
The investigator further noted that West Wales Financial Services Limited had made an ex 
gratia payment to Mr M of £1,021.51 (a combination of separate payments of £521.51 and 
£500). She agreed that Mr M would have been caused distress and inconvenience in this 
matter, but said that she wouldnt have awarded a higher amount in respect of this.
JM Wealth disagreed with the investigators conclusions, saying the following in summary:
Mr M had been made aware of the guarantees he was relinquishing. The suitability 
report and Replacement questionnaire referred to the loss of guarantees a 
combined 27 times.
Once JM Wealth had informed Mr M that it couldnt continue to process the transfer, 
Mr M chose to do so with another company  the Pension Review Service (PRS). His 
intention had always been to transfer and have both control and flexibility with his 
pension funds. This was evidenced by contemporaneous documents.
With regard to Mr Ms attitude to risk, he was recorded as having a medium risk 
outlook, which meant that he understood that to achieve positive real returns it was 
essential to take some investment risk.
Mr M was 22 years away from the age at which he wished to retire  60  and his 
investments were diversified to reduce overall risk. With critical yields of 5.36% and 
4.51% for the BSPS and the PPF respectively, it considered there was a good 
chance that Mr M would achieve his objectives. In support of that position, it drew 
attention to the last five years performance of the selected portfolio.The investigator considered the points raised, but wasnt persuaded to change her view. She 
said the following in summary:
Mr M proceeded with the transfer on the basis of advice already received from JM 
Wealth before the FCAs intervention. If JM Wealth was no longer able to process the 
transfer, it would have been reasonable for it to have stopped it progressing.
Although she noted the comments that Mr M had been made aware of the 
guarantees he was relinquishing, the investigator said that it was nevertheless JM 
Wealths responsibility to ensure that the recommendation was suitable. And she 
didnt think the available evidence supported the position that the benefits of 
transferring outweighed the disadvantages in terms of the benefits being 
relinquished.
Mr M wasnt a financial expert and so relied upon the advice being given. The 
recommendation itself would have reassured him that the risks of transferring were 
worthwhile. And this would explain why he signed the declaration.
With regard to the critical yield, the investigator noted the comment that the figure 
required to match the BSPS benefits at age 60 was 5.36%. But she commented that 
the discount rate deemed achievable for the same time period was 4.5%. So the 
former still exceeded the latter.
There was no urgent need for Mr M to have transferred and justified the risks he was 
undertaking.
JM Wealth maintained its position that it had given suitable advice at the time, bearing in 
mind Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time JM Wealth advised Mr M 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like JM Wealth, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, JM 
Wealth needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ms objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of JM Wealths advice to Mr M in the context of the 
above requirements.JM Wealths rationale for transferring
JM Wealth has said that Mr M was keen to ensure that he could retire early  at age 60  
and take his income flexibly to maximise tax efficiency. Mr M had approached JM Wealth on 
the recommendation of a colleague, as he was uncertain about the future of the BSPS. Mr M 
wasnt categorised as an insistent client, and so JM Wealth could be confident that he would 
be acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, JM Wealth undertook its fact finding for Mr M and then set 
out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives. The latter, as set out above, may be 
summarised as follows:
Retire at age 60
Reshape his benefits to enable him to take a flexible income.
Death benefits to be passed to his children.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above within the COBS rules that the starting assumption 
for an assessment of Mr Ms options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, unless it could 
be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet specific objectives. And so 
Ill therefore explore these objectives further below.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
These appear to have been key objectives for Mr M. Mr M hadnt by the time of the suitability 
report considered, or at least submitted, a preference to enter into either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF as part of the time to choose exercise. The suitability report pre-dated this. JM Wealth 
therefore used the BSPS and PPF for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ms objectives from a financial perspective.
The comparison demonstrated that, at age 60, the annuity (without taking tax free cash) 
which would be produced by pension funds transferred and invested in the PPP (assuming 
the mid band growth in the illustration of 1.75% pa) would be £5,500 pa, as opposed to the 
uncommuted guaranteed pension income of £8,602 pa from the BSPS. After taking tax free 
cash of £39,372, the BSPS would provide a guaranteed income of £5,905 pa, whereas the 
PPP would produce a tax free lump sum of £36,000 and a residual annuity of £4,120 pa.
A direct comparison with the PPF isnt possible as these figures were only provided up to 
age 65.
Its fair to say that the mid band growth assumption used in the projection of PPP benefits 
was conservative. The higher rate was 4.75%, which projected an uncommuted income 
figure of £14,300 pa or a combined lump sum of  £70,700 and reduced income of £10,700 at 
age 60. But this assumed growth rate was higher than the discount rate for 23 years to 
retirement, which was 4.5%. The PPP projection also didnt specify whether the figures 
quoted included increases in payment, spouses benefits and any payment guarantees.
I do note, in particular respect to the discount rate, that the suitability report was issued prior 
to the FCAs revised guidance was released in October 2017, but as commented by the 
investigator, the discount rate published by this service before then would nevertheless have 
been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The loss of income on a guaranteed basis, at the mid band growth rate, due to transferring is 
also consistent with the critical yield required to match the BSPS benefits. The critical yield for retirement at age 60 with the BSPS was higher than the discount (or growth) rate 
deemed achievable over the same period. And although the critical yield required to match 
the benefits which would be available in the BSPS 2 is likely to have been slightly lower than 
for the BSPS, it would more likely than not still have exceeded the growth rate deemed 
achievable. And JM Wealth acknowledged this, saying in summary that it was unlikely that, 
in income terms, the scheme benefits could be bettered. It relied upon other reasons, 
including control and flexibility, to justify the transfer.
But the disparity in the guaranteed income available from both scenarios is in my view in any 
case a compelling demonstration of what would be relinquished by transferring. Its fair to 
say that JM Wealth did provide warnings on the guarantees which would be given up, but as 
JM Wealth will be aware, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. JM 
Wealth needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the 
guarantees and taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr M.
As Ive said above, JM Wealths reasoning as to why the critical yield was of less importance 
here is that Mr M required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances and 
objectives. It said in the suitability report that his goals could only be achieved by transferring 
out and so Ive given this argument careful consideration.
As a preliminary comment, although JM Wealth described Mr Ms recorded attitude to risk as 
being medium in its response to the investigators initial view, he was throughout the 
suitability report referred to as having a low-medium risk outlook. I dont think the type of 
portfolio into which Mr M was advised to place his transferred funds for the purpose of later 
flexible access was necessarily unsuitable for this. And I acknowledge JM Wealths 
comments relating to Mr Ms acceptance of the principle of needing to take some risk to 
achieve the required reward. 
But I dont think Mr M needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of the control and 
flexibility argument, I understand this to be that Mr M would have control over his pension 
funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew from a flexi-drawdown 
arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. But its unclear as to why Mr M would have 
needed such flexibility, especially given the investment risk associated with it, his low-
medium risk attitude, lack of capacity to incur losses and apparent lack of any historical 
investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take risks with his pension 
income.  
And in particular Ive thought about whether Mr M could meet his objectives of retiring at 60 
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. I note 
that in a document submitted to the PRS in January 2018, Mr M said that hed like to 
become a part time employee at 55 and draw down his pension funds to supplement his 
income. There was no mention of this objective in the documentation submitted by JM 
Wealth, however, and so Ill treat the objective as being that which was known at the time of 
the advice  retirement at age 60. 
And in my consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr M to take tax 
free cash from the BSPS 2 or PPF at age 60 without also starting to take an income. And I 
accept that, if Mr M did in fact reduce his income at age 55, this would have an impact on the 
household finances.
But by age 60, Mr M would have accrued 23 years worth of defined contributions in the 
replacement scheme. And so its likely that he could have relied on the proceeds of this, 
from age 60 (or even 55 if needed to boost a part time income) and then taken guaranteed 
benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and when needed. Its likely in my view that 
he would have been able to rely upon the accrued benefits from the defined contribution scheme to defer retirement at the normal defined benefit scheme age of 65, and then be 
subject to no early retirement income deduction.
In terms of the tax efficiency cited by JM Wealth as being an additional benefit of Mr M being 
able to take his benefits flexibly, he would have been able to choose a tax efficient level of 
income or lump sum withdrawals from age 60 through the defined contribution accrual, until 
the point that he either needed, or chose to begin taking, benefits from either the BSPS 2 or 
the PPF. 
Ive then thought about Mr Ms outstanding loan commitments. It seems more likely than not 
to me that the car loan would have been repaid before Mr M retired. Mr Ms mortgage was 
relatively modest, and would either likely have been repaid by the time he reached 60, or 
would have required a partial element of any tax free cash entitlement Mr M wished to take 
from his defined contribution scheme benefits. I note that in the fact find document, the 
mortgage was in fact due to be repaid by age 51.
But even if a different interpretation was possible on this, and there was insufficient 
headroom in terms of combined income (including any drawdowns from the defined 
contribution scheme) for Mr and Mrs Ms expenditure after Mr M had reached 60, and/or the 
mortgage had needed to be increased/extended, any remaining mortgage could have been 
restructured to require lower monthly repayments for the remaining five years before Mr M 
accessed his defined benefit scheme pension funds at age 65. 
Alternatively, Mr and Mrs C could have still repaid some of the capital, but at a lower overall 
rate for five additional years, in order to provide more available income when Mr M retired at 
age 60.
As to Mr Ms acceptance of the risk/reward proposition, he was accruing further benefits in 
his defined contribution scheme, and given the contributions rates to that scheme (10% and 
8% employer and employee contributions respectively) and the number of years left to 
retirement compared against the benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, I agree that the 
majority of his pension provision would likely be derived of the defined contribution scheme. 
As such, Mr M was already by necessity taking investment risk through the replacement 
scheme.
But in light of this, I think the guarantees attached to the defined benefits would have been of 
considerable value  he was after all attributed a low-medium capacity for loss in the 
suitability report - and these benefits should not have been relinquished lightly in favour of a 
flexibility which could in any case have been met by fairly uncomplicated planning around his 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension accruals and accessibility from age 60 (or 
even from 55 if required). 
And on that particular note, it must also be emphasised that Mr M was 37 at the point of 
advice, and so many years away from retirement. Ive noted the comment in the suitability 
report that Mr M was concerned that if the BSPS 2 entered the PPF, he wouldnt then be 
able to transfer out. But Mr Ms concerns around this should have been managed 
appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice 
with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those 
concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options. 
I dont think this happened here. The whole point of the BSPS consultation, which JM Wealth 
noted had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid 
the necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice 
the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not to be a viable alternative.When the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF, 
and even once the full details of the options were known as a part of the time to choose 
exercise, members still had the choice of transferring out of the scheme, rather than 
transferring into the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
And so my view is that Mr M simply didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out 
his defined benefits at that point. His plans, including retirement, may have changed 
significantly in the 23 intervening years between then and Mr M reaching age 60. Any 
flexibility requirements could have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Ms 
retirement. 
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the planned early 
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was a 
sufficient reason for Mr M to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
On the basis that Mrs M would have her own pension provision, it was recorded that Mr M 
was keen, in the event of his death, to provide a lump sum benefit for his children.
After the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his beneficiary/ies, rather than in the form 
of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme.
But I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ms benefits. Firstly, he had no 
particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to not 
benefit from a pension income derived of his scheme membership upon retirement for a 
reasonable amount of time, were of concern at that point. 
Secondly, the accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement 
rather than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for that individuals children. The financial 
wellbeing of the children would inevitably have been a priority for both Mr and Mrs M, but the 
recommendation needed to be given in the context of  primarily - Mr Ms best interests in 
terms of his retirement needs. And under the schemes terms, Mr Ms dependants would in 
any case have been entitled to a lump sum return of his contributions to the scheme, 
together with compound interest. The fund value of Mr Ms defined contribution scheme 
membership would also have been available as a lump sum. In addition, the children would 
have been entitled to a dependants pension in the event of Mr Ms death. The pension 
scheme to which Mrs M belonged would also have provided a dependants benefit, along 
with death in service benefits, in the event of both of their deaths.
There is also the matter of the lump sum benefits which would have been paid, had Mr M 
remained in the same employment  recorded as being four times his annual salary, 
although according to the BSPS defined contribution scheme details, beneficiaries of a 
member of that scheme would receive six times their salary (I accept that this may have 
changed since the advice was given). 
Furthermore, if there was any concern about the childrens future in the event of both of Mr 
and Mrs Ms deaths, there was a further lump sum legacy which they could have left to their 
children (beyond the benefits mentioned above)  a property worth in the region of 
£290,000, which as Ive said above, was encumbered by a relatively modest mortgage and 
was due to have been repaid by the time Mr M was 51. 
Notwithstanding the above, a desire to leave a lump sum legacy to his children cannot 
reasonably have trumped Mr Ms own personal requirement to benefit from his pension. And there was no detail about why a lump sum would have been so important to Mr Ms children 
that it would justify a transfer of Mr Ms guaranteed benefits.
I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave 
some kind of financial legacy to his children, but not essential, and certainly not of sufficient 
importance, given the other benefits which would be available to Mr Ms children, to justify 
Mr M compromising the security of his own retirement.
A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the ability to pass 
a lump sum to a beneficiary could be particularly advantageous when compared to an 
income stream through a spouses or dependants pension, but I dont think the right 
conditions for this to have outweighed the benefits of Mr M retaining his deferred benefits 
were present here.
The objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against the 
guaranteed benefits Mr M was relinquishing, along with the considerable other benefits to 
which Mr Ms beneficiaries would be entitled in the event of his death, and JM Wealth should 
have advised him that his own financial security in retirement took priority here.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ms children 
by way of transferring to the PPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise 
valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr M. 
What should JM Wealth have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ms 
decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I 
fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr M. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr M to make any decision 
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time. 
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr M was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr M, amongst many others in a similar position, 
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but 
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options. 
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  was in 
any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the worst 
case scenario of entering the PPF. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control 
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ms 
income needs could have been comfortably met by well-planned access to his different 
types of accrued benefits by the time he came retirement. And he had no prior experience, 
or demonstrable history, of wanting to manage his own investments. The available evidence 
simply doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been 
sufficiently compelling reasons for Mr M to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ms concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future 
pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment returns  rather than being 
partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the case through the defined 
contribution scheme.
Although not a stated objective, tax free cash for the purpose of mortgage and loan 
repayment (if required) would have been available both from his accrued defined 
contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable from the 
defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the PPP. But 
for the reasons set out above, I dont think these should have been a more important 
consideration than Mr Ms own retirement guarantees which hed be relinquishing through 
the transfer.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And theres a consensus here that the critical yield was unlikely to be achievable to even 
simply match the scheme benefits. The justification for nevertheless transferring, despite the 
likelihood that the scheme benefits couldnt be matched (and almost certainly not with the 
type of investment risk appropriate for Mr M) was that it was nevertheless suitable in view of 
Mr Ms stated objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. 
And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what JM Wealth considers to have been the 
overriding justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above. 
JM Wealths view is that Mr M was nevertheless intent on effecting the transfer. Ive noted 
the comments relating to Mr Ms keenness that the transfer proceed, even once it was 
known that JM Wealth was in discussions with the FCA and that it could no longer advise on 
transfers. But firstly, the available evidence (provided by JM Wealth itself) indicates that the 
transfer couldnt have been stopped by that point  the funds had already been transferred 
from the BSPS.
And secondly, theres a persuasive argument that Mr M was in any case still acting upon the 
recommendation given by JM Wealth  which had been to transfer his benefits. At no point 
did JM Wealth reverse that recommendation. Mr M was instead referred to another party if 
he wished to still proceed.
In terms of the responsibilities of Mr M in deciding whether to still proceed (notwithstanding 
my comments above about the funds seemingly having already been transferred), I dont 
disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals would be in a position to take 
that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they wanted to transfer their defined 
benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter involving many factors with 
which Mr M, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  hence his reliance on a professional 
party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr M simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility.
Mr Ms decision (and as has been claimed, sense of urgency relating to this) to proceed may 
well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial viability of the BSPS, but as 
Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a detailed and balanced assessment of the 
schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process.
Taking account of Mr Ms circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the 
guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF, my view is that JM Wealth should have advised against the transfer.And I think that, had this happened, Mr M would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr M, nor was 
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ms low-medium attitude to 
risk and its incompatibility with the type of investment risk required to match the scheme 
benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive and balanced 
portrayal of Mr Ms options and the future benefits available from both the BSPS defined 
benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
I also have significant concerns about the way in which the critical yield, itself a key indicator 
of the value of the benefits being relinquished, was downplayed on the basis of the other 
objectives identified and the described benefits of the transfer. But at least two of the key 
benefits sought by Mr M were available without needing to transfer  early retirement and 
flexibility through utilising the different types of BSPS benefits which would have been 
available to him (or indeed through the PPF). 
JM Wealth was aware that, taking account of Mr Ms attitude to risk with regard to his 
pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it was 
unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor scheme, could be bettered 
through the transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, 
when considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 
2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, it would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the 
conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. 
Mr Ms additional complaints
I agree with the investigators comments on these further matters and would refer the parties 
to my comments in the below section.
Putting things right
 My aim to is put Mr M, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for JM Wealths 
unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ms deferred benefits isnt possible. Therefore, West 
Wales Financial Services Limited, trading as JM Wealth, should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view is aligned with that of the investigator in that, had Mr M not transferred his pension 
funds to the PPP, he would have opted to join the BSPS 2. There would be a 10% reduction 
in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the 
starting entitlement for deferred members. 
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under the PPF. And so, on the 
basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would 
likely have been higher with the PPF. 
But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr M would have 
envisaged accessing his defined contribution scheme benefits to make up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined benefits, which 
could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. 
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which should be used for comparison 
purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the BSPS 2 should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. West Wales 
Financial Services Limited, trading as JM Wealth, may wish to contact the Department for 
Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
West Wales Financial Services Limited, trading as JM Wealth, receives notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes West Wales Financial Services Limited, trading as JM 
Wealth, to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.Determination and money award: I require West Wales Financial Services Limited, trading 
as J M Wealth, to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require West 
Wales Financial Services Limited, trading as J M Wealth, to pay Mr M any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require West Wales 
Financial Services Limited, trading as J M Wealth, to pay Mr M any interest as set out above 
on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
West Wales Financial Services Limited, trading as J M Wealth, pays Mr M the balance. I 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr M.
As noted by the investigator, as J M Wealth has refunded the advice fee and ongoing 
charges, these may be deducted from any total loss figure - rather than from £160,000 - in 
the event that Wales Financial Services Limited, trading as J M Wealth, doesnt accept my 
recommendation to pay any balance above £160,000.
I also agree with the investigator that the ex gratia amount paid in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience is proportionate to the likely impact the business actions have had on Mr M, 
and so I make no further award in respect of that.
If Mr M accepts my decision, the money award is binding on West Wales Financial Services 
Limited, trading as J M Wealth. My recommendation is not binding on West Wales Financial 
Services Limited, trading as J M Wealth. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. West Wales Financial Services Limited, 
trading as J M Wealth, should undertake the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, 
compensate Mr M accordingly.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021. 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman