DRN-1933894
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt remove his ex-wife from a joint bank 
account. Mr T also says that he was on the telephone to Barclays for long periods of time 
and was given wrong information. Mr T wants Barclays to apologise, pay compensation and 
to give him a new bank account.
What happened
Mr T says that around four years ago he asked a branch of Barclays to remove his ex-wifes 
name from a joint account. Then in 2019, his ex-wife contacted him and told him that she 
was using a banking app and this gave her access to the joint account.  
Mr T telephoned Barclays on 13 September to raise a complaint about his ex-wife being able 
to see details of the account. During this call, Mr T was told that his ex-wife was able to 
access the account because it was still showing as a joint account. Mr T questioned this and 
explained that his ex-wife was taken off the account many years ago. Mr T was told that he 
would need to go into a branch to remove his ex-wife from the account. He was told that he 
didnt need his ex-wife with him. They also explained that they could place a block on the 
account to stop his ex-wife accessing the account and he could then remove the block when 
hes at the branch. Mr T agreed for the block to be put in place.
 
Following a visit to a branch, Mr T telephoned Barclays again on 17 September. He 
explained that he went into a branch with identification but was told that he needed a letter 
from his ex-wife in order to remove her from the account. During the telephone call, he was 
told that there werent any notes relating to his recent visit to the branch. They explained that 
Mr T shouldnt have been turned away but they had just added a new note on their system 
which said that the branch should verify Mr T and then remove his ex-wife from the account. 
Mr T was told that he would need to go into the branch again.
  
During a telephone conversation on 19 September to discuss his complaint, Mr T explained 
that it would be inconvenient for him to go into a branch again to get the issue sorted, but he 
said he would do that. He explained he was concerned that the branch may tell him again 
that he needs a letter from his ex-wife. Barclays told Mr T that they would look into the 
matter and would get back to him about how this issue could be sorted.
 
Barclays telephoned Mr T on 23 September and explained that he would need to go into a 
branch and that his ex-wife could attend another branch to sort out her removal from the 
account. Mr T went into a branch on 26 September with his identification. Then on 30 
October, Mr Ts ex-wifes authority was received and Barclays then wrote to Mr T on 31 
October and confirmed the changes to the account. 
      
Barclays wrote to Mr T on 30 September and said they had carried out a review but didnt 
find any information which showed that Mr T had previously requested his ex-wife be 
removed from the joint account. 
They also said that they didnt feel Mr T was given wrong information and that he wouldnt 
follow instructions from their agents. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. Barclays told us that, when Mr T told them about 
the issue in September 2019, they placed a block on his account as a protective measure. 
They said that, during the initial telephone call, they explained to Mr T that he would need to 
go into a branch and show two forms of identification to have the block removed. They also 
told him that the removal of his ex-wife from the joint account could only take place at the 
branch. 
Barclays explained they didnt find any evidence that the joint account had previously been 
changed into a sole account. 
In relation to Mr Ts visits to the branch, Barclays set out the procedure which was followed 
to remove his ex-wife from the joint account. They also responded to Mr Ts concern that he 
has had to spend several hours on the telephone and in branch to sort this out and that he 
didnt have access to his account for two months. They said that a block was placed on his 
account and it was still in joint names so he was advised of the steps he needed to take to 
remove these. They said, had these steps been carried out sooner, then he would have had 
access to his account and the block would have been removed.
 
Mr T says that, because of Barclays error in not removing his ex-wife from the account, she 
could see details of his transactions and also information about his familys accounts. He 
says his ex-wife will also have seen his address which she didnt know before. Mr T thinks 
he made the request around four years ago and it might have been done over the telephone. 
In telephone calls with Barclays and our service, Mr T has said that his ex-wifes card, which 
was linked to the account, had been cancelled a few years ago so he doesnt understand 
why she remained on the account. 
Our investigator felt there hadnt been an error by Barclays in relation to the removal of      
Mr Ts ex-wife on the account. But they were of the view that Mr T wasnt given the correct 
information in the telephone call on 13 September which led to an unnecessary visit. Our 
investigator felt Barclays should pay Mr T £75 for trouble and upset.
Mr T disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold the complaint. 
Mr T says that he did ask a branch to remove his ex-wifes name from the account around 
four years ago. Barclays dont have any information which shows they received such a 
request. Without any information to support either parties account, I have to consider what I 
think is more likely to have happened than not. 
Barclays have provided customer contact notes but this doesnt show any record of Mr T 
requesting removal of his ex-wife from the account. While there is no evidence of a request 
on Barclays records, I do need to consider whether its likely that Mr T did make a request 
and provided authority from his ex-wife which hasnt then been recorded and actioned by 
Barclays. 
Its clear from the telephone calls between Mr T and Barclays in September 2019 that 
Barclays have a process when it comes to removing a party from a joint account. It involves 
the party, being removed from the account, giving their authority. I believe, had a previous 
request been received by Barclays, then they wouldve explained to Mr T that his ex-wife would need to give authority. Removing a party from a joint account is a material change to 
the account and I believe any request for this is sufficiently important to warrant a record 
being made. And, if Barclays had then received an authority from Mr Ts ex-wife, this again 
wouldve led to a record being made. So, there are two separate events here, firstly the 
request, and then secondly the authority. There isnt a record of either of these events and I 
believe its unlikely, had both of these been received by Barclays, that a record wouldve 
been overlooked for both events. 
I can see our investigator did ask Mr T for some further information about his request for 
removal of his ex-wife from the account to get a better understanding of when it mightve 
taken place. Mr T explained that it was around four years ago and he says it mightve been 
done over the telephone, he also recalls it was just him on the telephone with the branch. I 
feel this does further support my view that Barclays didnt have all the information to action 
the request. I say this because, its clear that written authority from Mr Ts ex-wife wouldve 
been required. This wouldve needed to have been sent by email or post, or by delivering it 
in person at one of the branches, but there isnt a record of any of these. 
Mr T has also mentioned that his ex-wifes card was cancelled on this account. Our 
investigator looked into this to see whether this supports Mr Ts account of his request. 
Barclays have provided a record of Mr Ts ex-wifes card but this doesnt show her card 
having been cancelled following a request.  
Taking all of my views above into account, I believe Barclays didnt have both a request and 
authority to allow them to remove Mr Ts ex-wife from the account so I wont be upholding 
this part of the complaint. 
When Mr T became aware that his ex-wife had access to the account, he discussed this with 
Barclays over a series of telephone calls. Its clear from the telephone call recordings that  
Mr T wanted to get the problem sorted as quickly as possible. I have listened to the 
telephone calls and, during the telephone call on 13 September, he was told that he needed 
to go into a branch to get his ex-wife removed from the account. Mr T then telephoned 
Barclays on 17 September and explained that he had visited a branch and was told that he 
needed a letter from his ex-wife in order to remove her from the account. Barclays dont 
have any notes relating to this visit but I believe Mr Ts account of what happened. I say this 
because he appears to have telephoned shortly after his visit and I believe he was told he 
needed authority from his ex-wife because Barclays clearly did need this when they later 
removed Mr Ts ex-wife from the account. During the telephone call on 17 September he 
again isnt told that he needs authority from his ex-wife and is again led to believe that he 
can go into a branch to get his ex-wife removed from the account. 
The events which followed, and which led to Mr Ts ex-wife being removed from the account, 
clearly show that authority from Mr Ts ex-wife was necessary. I do therefore take the view 
that Mr T was given incorrect information in the telephone call on 13 September and this led 
him to make an unnecessary visit to the branch. I also think this led to Mr T having to make a 
telephone call on 17 September which wouldnt have happened had he been given the 
correct information during the telephone call on 13 September. In relation to the other 
telephone calls, I dont think they were unnecessarily long, they dealt with the issue with the 
account so I dont feel the length of time Mr T spent on the telephone was unreasonable.  
Its understandable Mr T wouldve wanted this sorted out very quickly. While I can see it took 
just over six weeks from being told about the problem and then getting Mr Ts ex-wife 
removed from the account, I cant hold Barclays responsible for this. They explained the next 
steps to Mr T on 23 September and then, following his visit on 26 September, his ex-wife 
didnt provide her authority until 30 October. This was outside of Barclays control. I can see that, following receipt of the authority, Barclays did then act swiftly in making the changes to 
the account.
Putting things right
The information I have considered shows that Mr T was clearly upset about the situation with 
the account and very worried that his ex-wife had access to the account. Mr T followed the 
advice he was given during the telephone call on 13 September and was then left frustrated 
when it turned out that the branch couldnt sort out the issue without authority from his       
ex-wife. The unnecessary visit did then cause further frustration and upset at a time when   
Mr T was already feeling anxious, and this is shown in his telephone call on 17 September.
   
Barclays should pay compensation to Mr T. This reflects the frustration to Mr T when 
realising that he would need authority from his ex-wife despite the assurance given to him by 
Barclays and also the inconvenience of having to visit a branch which turned out to be 
unnecessary. Mr T was caused trouble, upset and inconvenience at a time when he was 
already feeling worried. The compensation should also take account of the telephone call 
which Mr T had to make on 17 September which wouldnt have been necessary had he been 
given the correct information. I think an amount of £75 is fair recognition of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
compensation to Mr T in the sum of £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman