DRN-2454966
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) mishandled a
claim on his motor insurance policy and asked him to pay a much higher premium for
renewal.
 What happened
Mr Y had a car that had first been registered in about 2001. For the year from July 2018, he
had a motor insurance policy under which LV was responsible for dealing with claims.
In September 2018, Mr Y and a third party were involved in a traffic incident. At first LV
treated Mr Y as wholly at fault. Later LV said liability was shared 50/50 between Mr Y and
the third party. Mr Y brought a complaint to us about this and we have dealt with that
separately.
In November 2018, Mr Y and another third party were involved in another traffic incident. 
After that, Mr Y scrapped his car and put another car on the policy.
LV sent Mr Y a renewal letter. It quoted a premium of nearly £5,000.00 for the renewal from
July 2019. Mr Y complained to LV about that. And he set up a new policy with a new insurer.
In response to Mr Ys complaint LV said it had settled the claim of the third party in the
incident from November 2018. Mr Y complained that LV had recorded that as a fault claim
against him without telling him. This had put him in difficulty with his new insurer, he said.
Unhappy with that, Mr Y asked us to investigate his complaint.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
LV singled out Mr Y or acted unreasonably towards him overall.
Mr Y disagreed with the investigator about the incident in September 2018 and the incident
in November 2018. He asked for an ombudsman to review each complaint.
Another ombudsman reviewed Mr Ys complaint about the September 2018 incident so I
cant comment further on the way that LV dealt with the September 2018 claim. Im dealing 
with the complaint about the November 2018 claim and the June 2019 renewal quote.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr Y 
and to LV on 24 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
There was no evidence that LV caused Mr Y a financial loss, even if the new insurer 
increased its premium.
However, LV had given Mr Y poor service by its delay in telling him about the 
settlement of the November 2018 claim. In addition to the waste of time and 
embarrassment, LV made Mr Y feel it had ignored him when he had a right to know.
Subject to any further information from Mr Y or from LV, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr Y £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr Y accepts the provisional decision. But he says, in summary, that:
The penalty is rather paltry.
LV will carry on as before.
LV disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
Mr Y was aware of this accident.
When he changed his vehicle in December 2018, LV issued him documents which 
included the November 2018 claim.
Mr Y should have been using his most recent documentation as a reference when 
obtaining a new quotation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to penalise financial firms for poor 
behaviour. Where we find poor behaviour in an individual case, we look at its effect on the 
complainant.
If the effect is a financial loss or distress and inconvenience, we may direct compensation. 
The compensation reflects the effect on the complainant. The compensation doesnt seek to 
punish the firm or to deter future poor behaviour.
Any claim on a policy is likely to have the effect of increasing the premium on renewal and
for the next few years. That effect is greater in the case of a fault claim.
An insurance company will usually treat a claim as a fault claim unless and until the
company recovers its outlay from another party. If liability is split 50/50 then the insurer will
recover only 50% of its outlay and so this remains as a fault claim.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with
a claim involving a third party. The LV policy included a term as follows:
Were entitled to:
have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim
The effect of such a term is that  on the question of liability to a third party the insurers
view would prevail over the policyholders view.
We consider whether an insurer has applied such a term fairly. Unlike a court, we dont hearevidence from all parties involved in an accident; and we dont decide the extent to which
any of them is responsible for causing injury or damage.
From what LV said later, Mr Y had a fault claim from March 2016.
For the year from July 2018, Mr Y had two years no claims discount (NCD). It wasnt a
protected NCD. The policy provided that  in the event of a claim  the NCD would be
stepped back to zero at renewal.
Ive mentioned the September 2018 claim.
As regards the November 2018 incident, Ive noted from the call recording the way in which
Mr Y first reported that incident. He said he had been leaving a car park and joining a main
road with his view obscured by a tree. The third party came along the main road very fast.
The passenger side of Mr Ys car hit and creased the drivers door of the third partys
vehicle.
Mr Y reported smelling alcohol from the other driver and fearing violence. There was one
witness, but Mr Y didnt get contact details. No-one called the police.
Mr Y told LV he didnt want to claim for damage to his car. As Ive said, he decided to scrap
it and replace it.
Mr Y reported that the third party held him responsible for the damage to his car. LV said the
following:
"With the information that we've got, because of the circumstances, because you
have pulled out onto the road that he was on, we would have to admit fault on that..."
So Im satisfied that LV told Mr Y that it would treat the accident as his fault.
In my view, there was little reason to think the third party wouldnt bother to pursue his claim.
If Mr Y had wanted to show he wasnt at fault, he had an opportunity to provide further
information while the events were still fresh and without waiting for the third party to contact
LV.
For example, Mr Y had mentioned getting details of the witness the next day. Or Mr Y
couldve provided photographs of the scene or of his car before he scrapped it. But theres
no evidence that he contacted LV again for several months.
LV says that it sent documents for Mr Ys change of vehicle. But  at that stage  LV hadnt 
settled the third partys claim.
LV had noted what Mr Y had said about joining the main road. It also noted what he said
about the third partys speed and smell of alcohol.
But I find it likely that LV recognised that there wasnt any independent evidence of speed or
alcohol. And I find it likely that LV knew from experience that  if the claim went to court  a
judge would pay more regard to the manoeuvres of the vehicles than to their speed.
So I consider that LV decided not to incur the cost and risk of contesting liability to the third
party. Im satisfied that it had reached a reasonable decision. 
LV settled the third partys claim in early 2019. I consider that LV shouldve told Mr Y when it 
settled the claim. And theres no evidence that it told him until some months later.LV sent its renewal letter in June 2019 about four weeks before renewal was due. It listed
the following:
Claims or accidents in last 5 years
 March 2016 - Accident
 November 2018 - Accident
 September 2018  Accident
The renewal quote was for the greatly increased premium of £4,986.81. And the renewal
letter included a box with the following link:
Your price
What impacts your premiums  visit LV.com/carprice
So I think its fair to say that LV had gone some way towards explaining that the accidents
had increased its quoted premium.
LV has given us more detail about how it priced the risk of insuring Mr Y for another year.
From that detail, I can see that LV applied a series of factors to price the risk. Im satisfied
that it applied those factors to Mr Y in the same way it wouldve applied them to anyone else
in his position. So - whilst he felt the quote was unfair - I dont find that LV treated Mr Y
unfairly.
Mr Y made it clear he wasnt going to pay such a large premium and he was looking
elsewhere. Other insurers wouldnt usually give quotes for a policy more than a month
before it is due to start. So I dont consider that Mr Y couldve got binding quotes any sooner
than the date of the renewal letter.
Mr Y knew hed been involved in the accident in November 2018. And the renewal letter had 
mentioned that accident. But LV didnt tell him it had settled the November 2018 claim until 
July 2019. 
So I find it likely that Mr Y had contacted his new insurer before LV gave him the information 
that it had settled the third partys claim. And Mr Y didnt know LV had settled the third 
partys claim. 
Mr Y hasnt shown us details of the policy he took out from July 2019. So I dont know what 
questions his new insurer asked about accidents or claims or what answers Mr Y gave. But 
I have no reason to doubt Mr Y's statement that he had to correct the answers hed given to
the new insurer about the November 2018 accident. 
That mustve taken some time and been embarrassing for him. But it was important that he 
gave correct answers. So theres no evidence that LV caused Mr Y a financial loss, even if 
the new insurer increased its premium.
However, LV had given Mr Y poor service by its delay in telling him about the settlement of
the November 2018 claim. In addition to the waste of time and embarrassment - I accept that
LV made Mr Y feel it had ignored him when he had a right to know.
 
Putting things right
Therefore I find it fair and reasonable to direct LV to pay Mr Y compensation for distress and
inconvenience hes been caused. Overall, I find £150.00 is fair and reasonable for distress
and inconvenience in this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr Y £150.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman