DRN-2210095
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Unum Ltd has dealt with his claim. 
What happened
Mr W has appointed a representative in relation to this complaint. All references to Mr W 
include any submissions made by his representative. 
Mr W has a group income protection policy, underwritten by Unum. The policy pays a benefit 
to Mr W if he is unable to work due to illness or injury for a deferred (waiting) period of 52 
weeks. 
Mr W is employed as a director and became absent from work in 2016. He made a claim 
which was declined by Unum. Following an appeal and a new claim with a later deferred 
period, Unum declined the claim again and so Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum had unfairly rejected the 
claim as the medical evidence didnt show that Mr W met the definition of incapacity 
throughout the deferred period. Mr W disagreed and sent in detailed submissions. Ive 
summarised what I consider to be the key points as follows:
Unum has taken an unreasonably restrictive view of the medical evidence and isnt 
prepared to specify what evidence it expects or arrange an independent examination 
For the second deferred period, there is overwhelming evidence available to 
demonstrate that Mr W isnt capable of undertaking his role and returning to work 
Mr W continued to be treated by his GP throughout the second deferred period as 
evidence by medical certificates
It is still open to Unum to arrange to have Mr W examined 
Unum failed to consider the linked absences provision which permits separate 
periods of absence to be aggregated to make up the deferred period
Mr W was unable to work for specific periods during both deferred periods
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
A member is incapacitated if:
(a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and 
(b) The member is unable by reason of his illness or injury to follow any occupation with 
any employer for which he is reasonably fitted by reason of training, education or 
experience.
Mr W first became absent from work in September 2016 and so the deferred period ran from 
September 2016 to September 2017. For Unum to accept the claim, the medical evidence 
would have to demonstrate that Mr W was unable to work due to his illness throughout this 
period.
The key medical evidence 
Unum requested and reviewed the following key medical evidence, in summary:
October 2016  Mr W met with a consultant psychiatrist who confirmed he was 
suffering with a mixed anxiety disorder and had been off work but was feeling better. 
He said he had mild depressive symptoms, would benefit from Cognitive behavioural 
therapy (CBT) and that Mr W should start a gradual return to work when his anxiety 
was a little more settled. 
November 2016  Mr W was reviewed by his consultant psychiatrist who found he 
was quite a bit brighter. The extra citalopram (40mg) and CBT were helping. He 
wasnt ready to return to work yet but would be ready to return to work within 10-14 
days. 
November 2016  a vocational rehab report said Mr W was likely to remain absent 
for another 3-4 weeks. 
December 2016  a vocational rehab report said Mr W had a positive meeting with 
his manager and colleagues and was confident about returning to work but was 
unable to make it to the office due to a panic attack.
February 2017  an occupational health report said Mr W had entirely new symptoms 
of joint pains and the GP had made a referral to see a specialist about possible 
Fibromyalgia. 
April 2017  Mr W saw a consultant rheumatologist about his joint pains but was 
feeling better. He was given a 6-month open appointment if needed. The letter said 
Mr W had been generally pretty well apart from anxiety and depression. 
July 2017  Mr W saw the consultant rheumatologist again as he had developed 
wrist pain and pain in his left hand and right foot as well as his shoulder. He was 
referred to hand therapy and provided with a wrist splint. And a further 6-month open 
appointment.
August 2017  a vocational rehab report said Mr W advised his anxiety had improved 
and he had gone into work for a few days before holiday for an informal catch up 
which had gone well. But since returning from holiday, thoughts of returning to work 
were causing significant anxiety again. He had experienced a mild panic attack the 
day he was due to return to work.
Mr Ws GP continued to sign him off as unfit to work throughout the deferred period 
as a result of stress and later, reactive arthritis. 
Unum declined the claim for the deferred period of September 2016 to September 2017 as it 
didnt think the medical evidence showed Mr Ws restrictions for work. Ive considered all of 
the representations made and agree that as a whole, the medical evidence available doesnt 
support that Mr W was unable to work due to illness throughout the entire deferred period. 
As outlined above, the evidence shows:Mr W had mild depressive symptoms to begin with  and in October he reported 
feeling better.
The specialists considered Mr W would be able to start a gradual return to work and 
he was reporting improvements and attempted a return to work in December 2016 
but this didnt go ahead due to a panic attack.
In relation to Mr Ws reactive arthritis, he reported feeling better by April 2017.
By August 2017, Mr W said his anxiety had improved.
The above evidence doesnt demonstrate that Mr W was unable to work due to illness 
throughout the entire deferred period. There are references to mild symptoms and feeling 
better. Mr W has to show that his illness would prevent him from working for 52 weeks. The 
evidence doesnt support this and so I dont think Unum unreasonably declined the claim for 
the deferred period.
After reviewing the evidence, Unum suggested a new deferred period starting from July 
2018.
Medical evidence during deferred period of July 2018 to July 2019
July 2018  Mr W continued to be signed off by his GP.
October 2018  Mr W saw a consultant psychiatrist who said he was suffering from 
generalised anxiety disorder and said Mr Ws symptoms were sufficiently severe that 
he was unable to work. 
November 2018  Mr W saw another consultant psychiatrist who said he hadnt 
received any particular sophisticated treatment and recommended a combination of 
more sophisticated pharmacological and psychological treatments.
December 2018  an occupational health report confirming Mr W was unfit for work.
The above evidence demonstrates that Mr W was incapacitated but the medical evidence 
doesnt show that he continued to be unwell throughout the deferred period. As a consultant 
psychiatrist had recommended more sophisticated pharmacological and psychological 
treatments, I would expect to see evidence of this in Mr Ws GP records. It is up to Mr W to 
provide evidence of his claim to Unum. As the medical evidence is lacking for 2019, I dont 
think Unum unfairly declined the claim for the second deferred period. 
Linked absences
The policy explains that Unum can link absences to make up the deferred period:
Although the deferred period is normally a period of continuous absence Unum will link 
periods of absence of at least 2 weeks duration through incapacity arising from the same 
cause provided the deferred period is completed within twice the length of the deferred 
period.
This relates to separate periods of absences. And this provision is usually in place where a 
member may become unwell for a few months and then return to work. But then become 
unwell again with the same illness. In that case, Unum can link the two absences to make up 
the deferred period. Mr W didnt have separate periods of absence where he met the 
definition of incapacity. And so I dont think it has done anything wrong in relation to the 
deferred period.
Mr Ws commentsMr W has made some comments which Ive summarised below. Ive addressed what I 
consider to be the key points here which havent already been addressed by my decision so 
far:
Unum has taken an unreasonably restrictive view of the medical evidence, it isnt 
prepared to specify what evidence it expects or arrange an independent examination.
As set out above, it is up to Mr W to prove his claim and Unum doesnt have to arrange an 
independent examination if the medical records dont support incapacity throughout the full 
deferred period.
For the second deferred period, there is overwhelming evidence available to 
demonstrate that Mr W isnt capable of undertaking his role and returning to work.
For the second deferred period, there is insufficient medical evidence to show that Mr W 
remained incapacitated. The policy requires Mr W to be incapacitated for 52 weeks. I dont 
agree the evidence is overwhelming for the 52 weeks. And further evidence of treatment 
options and referrals throughout 2019 would be expected especially as a specialist had 
recommended more sophisticated treatment. If Mr W did have further sophisticated 
treatment, he should provide this evidence to Unum for consideration. 
Mr W continued to be treated by his GP throughout the second deferred period as 
evidence by medical certificates.
Although GP certificates confirm a diagnosis, by themselves, they arent sufficient to 
demonstrate incapacity and further treatments and consultations would be expected for an 
ongoing illness.
Overall, although Mr W has been unwell for a number of years, Im not satisfied that he has 
met the definition of incapacity for 52 weeks based on the medical evidence available. And 
so I dont think Unum has unfairly declined his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman