DRN-3778799
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr P saw a vehicle, on a well-known online marketplace, that he was interested in buying. 
Hes told us that he contacted the seller, who explained that a shipping company was 
dealing with the sale on his behalf.
Mr P contacted the shipping company and was told, that due to Covid, they werent able to 
accept client visits to inspect vehicles. Mr P has said the seller had an active account since 
2012 and had other items for sale. Alongside this the shipping company provided him with a 
diagnostics report for the vehicle and told him that, if he wanted to go ahead, his funds would 
be held in an escrow account, and if he was then unhappy with the vehicle he would be able 
to have his money refunded.
Satisfied with what hed seen Mr P attended a Lloyds branch to make the payment. Lloyds 
has told us that the branch staff were concerned with the payment Mr P was intending to 
make and asked Mr P to go away and carry out further checks, as it didnt think the payment 
was genuine. Mr P went away and has said he carried out a check with DVLA, which 
showed a vehicle match, so he returned to the branch, on 25 June 2021, and the payment, 
for £14,000, was processed. But unknown to him at the time, Mr P had been dealing with 
fraudsters and had sent his money to an account the fraudsters controlled. Mr P realised he 
had been scammed when the vehicle wasnt delivered as arranged and he found he was 
unable to make any further contact with the shipping company.
Mr P raised the matter with Lloyds. Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Lloyds says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Lloyds issued its final response to Mr P on 11 November 2021, upholding his complaint in 
part. In summary, in this and in its submissions, Lloyds said it didnt feel Mr P had a 
reasonable basis for belief, as the price of the vehicle was too good to be true, it thought    
Mr P should have carried out more checks. 
However, Lloyds said it recognised it could have done more to protect Mr P at the point he 
was making his payment in branch. It said given as it was concerned about the payment, it 
should have invoked the Banking Protocol. It said it had told Mr P on numerous occasions it 
felt the company were a scam, so it shouldnt have made the payment. It said the testimony 
of its branch staff indicated that Banking Protocol was considered, but not followed through 
as the Police didnt have anybody available.
Lloyds said that, although this may not have stopped Mr P making his payment another way, 
it accepted that it should, at least in part, be liable for Mr Ps loss and so it agreed to refund 
50% of the money Mr P had lost.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and didnt think Lloyds needed to do any more than it had, 
she thought the 50% refund Lloyds had made was fair given the circumstances of the case. 
In summary, this was because she thought that there was enough going on that Mr P ought 
to have had some concerns about the transaction he made. Overall, she thought Lloyds had 
applied the CRM code correctly.
Mr P didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Ive noted Mr Ps concerns about the banks duties to him. In broad terms, the starting 
position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make. Theres no dispute that Mr P authorised the payment that is 
the subject of this complaint, even though he did so as a result of being deceived by 
fraudsters.
Broadly speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, he would normally be liable for the payment. But that isnt the end of the 
story. Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though the payment has been properly authorised. Of 
particular relevance is the CRM Code which, as mentioned above, Lloyds has signed up to. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr P.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payment Mr P made falls within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as the 
exceptions to reimbursement). 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored what the CRM Code refers 
to as an Effective Warning. Lloyds has already acknowledged it could have done more in 
branch at the time Mr P made the payment, it has acknowledged given its concerns it 
shouldnt have made the payment. Thats why its refunded 50% of his loss, accepting that it 
ought to have done more and recognising that means it bears some responsibility for Mr Ps 
loss. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this isnt a fair conclusion and I see no reason to 
make further findings given Lloyds has already accepted partial responsibility here.A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam. Lloyds has said 
it wont refund the remaining 50% of Mr Ps loss as it didnt think he had a reasonable basis 
for belief that the seller was genuine. In particular, it thinks Mr P ought to have carried out 
more checks given it considered the price of the vehicle was too good to be true and that its 
branch staff had raised concerns with Mr P about the legitimacy of the sale.
Ive thought about all of this carefully, having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, Im 
not going to order the bank to do anything more. Having considered all the available 
evidence and information, I dont find its fair and reasonable to say Lloyds ought to make up 
Mr Ps remaining loss.
I think Lloyds has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mr P under 
the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement 
under the provisions of the CRM Code applies. Taking into account all of the circumstances 
of this case, including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam, I 
think the concerns Lloyds has raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr P made are 
enough to support its position that it doesnt think Mr P had a reasonable basis for believing 
the transaction he made was towards a legitimate sale. Ill explain why.
- Mr P agreed to pay £14,000 for the vehicle, to also cover shipping costs. Having 
reviewed guides that provide average car sale prices based on make, model, vehicle 
age and mileage, this is considerably less than I would expect - the average sale 
price for that vehicle was over £20,000. On this basis I think the price the car was 
advertised for was too good to be true.
- Alongside this I dont think Mr P was given, or indeed asked for, an explanation as to 
why the vehicle was being sold for a price which was considerably below its market 
value. Whilst I accept that people can and do arrange to sell items at a discount for a 
quick sale, I think there were things about the situation that in the cold light of day did 
not add up. I consider that Mr P ought to have had greater concerns about the 
legitimacy of the seller.
- I can see from the communications that Mr P had with the seller that he appeared to 
have his own concerns. At one point telling the seller that he wouldnt go ahead as he 
had got doubts about the vehicle deal as it was too vague, uncertain and 
precarious. Im mindful Mr P asked the seller to provide further evidence, but from 
what Ive seen Im not persuaded the evidence he was provided with was sufficient to 
have reasonably satisfied him that this was a genuine sale. 
- Mr P didnt have the opportunity to see the vehicle before he agreed to buy it. While I 
think its fair to accept that buying a car online has become far more common in 
recent years, I think its also fair to say that in these circumstances  particularly 
where the selling business isnt known to the customer  you would expect a higher degree of caution on the customers behalf, to ensure that all other elements of the 
sale appear legitimate and that any red flags are questioned. 
- Lloyds has acknowledged that its interaction didnt go far enough. However, from the 
evidence Ive seen it did, at least in part, express its concern to Mr P regarding the 
legitimacy of the transaction he was making. I think the concerns that Lloyds did 
raise, coupled with the other factors, ought to have led to a greater degree of 
checking on Mr Ps part.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr P from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr P ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect himself. Buying a vehicle, unseen, at a considerable discount was always a 
risk. I think Mr P should have done more than he did to question the deal and to satisfy 
himself that it was legitimate before making the payment. 
With the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr P 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the goods hed been offered and that, in 
turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Ps part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the goods were 
genuine. I therefore consider, in line with the provisions of the CRM code, liability should be 
shared equally between Lloyds and Mr P. Given Lloyds has already refunded 50% of the 
money Mr P lost, I cant fairly or reasonably order it to refund the remainder of the money   
Mr P lost.
Ive considered whether Lloyds did all it could to try and recover the money Mr P lost, once 
he had reported the scam to it. Lloyds did contact the receiving bank when he raised the 
matter, but unfortunately the receiving bank told it that no funds remained. So I think Lloyds 
has done what could reasonably have been expected of it to try to recover the money.
Its very unfortunate Mr P has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Lloyds should refund Mr P any 
more of the money he sadly lost.
Finally, Mr P has said that our decision may be different to what a court would decide. Mr P 
doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt it wont be binding on him. Subject 
to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ps right to pursue a legal 
remedy wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman