DRN-2950416
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the advice provided to her by The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) in relation to her occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) and the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).
What happened
Mrs C started working for the National Health Service (NHS) in a hospital aged 18 and she 
joined the NHS OPS in 1986. Mrs C left to work at a General Practice in 1989  at that time, 
Mrs C was not eligible to join the NHS OPS.
In November 1988 Mrs C was advised by Royal London (formerly known as CIS) to contract 
out of SERPS and open a personal pension with it. Mrs C was later advised in 1991 to 
transfer the benefits held in her OPS to another personal pension with Royal London.
In 1997 Mrs C was invited to have her pension advice reviewed as required by the regulator. 
The outcome of the review was delivered in 2000  Mrs C was informed that she hadnt 
been disadvantaged by the advice.
Mrs C says she met with a new financial adviser in 2003 who advised her to rejoin her OPS, 
which she had been eligible to do since 1997. She transferred the benefits held in her two 
Royal London pensions to the OPS.
In February 2020 Mrs C complained to Royal London after receiving some retirement 
quotations. She said she was worse off as a result of the advice because she was unable to 
retire at 55, which she would have been able to do if she hadnt been advised to transfer out. 
She also complained that Royal London had failed to tell her to rejoin her OPS in 1997, 
despite carrying out reviews since then. Mrs C said her pension was lower as a result of the 
advice. Mrs C was also unhappy about the advice to contract out of SERPS, as she would 
now be receiving a lower state pension.
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs C referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think we could consider Mrs Cs complaint about the advice to transfer 
out of the OPS and the failure to advise her to rejoin the scheme. This was because she 
thought these complaints had been made too late under the regulators rules. The 
investigator thought we could consider the complaint about the advice to contract out of 
SERPS. But she didnt think the advice was unsuitable based on Mrs Cs age, salary and the 
number of years remaining until retirement, which meant she was likely to benefit from 
contracting out of SERPS at the time.
Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaints. She 
said she was unaware of any time limits applicable to complaining about the advice and she 
didnt appreciate the impact of the advice until she received her retirement quotations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complaints made too late
The investigator concluded that part of Mrs Cs complaints had been made too late under the 
regulators rules. The time limits for making a complaint can be found in the DISP (Dispute 
Resolution) Rules.
The specific time limits relevant to this complaint can be found in DISP 2.8 which says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response or redress determination; or
2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
The rules allow us to set time limits aside in exceptional circumstances.
Mrs C has complained about advice given to her to transfer out of her OPS in 1991 and then 
the failure of Royal London to advise her to rejoin the scheme between 1997 and 2003. Both 
of the events complained of were more than six years before Mrs C complained in 
February 2020. So, I have to consider when she ought reasonably to have been aware of 
her cause for complaint. If Mrs C ought to have been aware of her cause for complaint 
before February 2017, these complaints will have been made too late under the regulators 
rules.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded that the pension review letters sent to Mrs C in 2000 
did enough to make her aware of her cause for complaint about the advice to transfer out of 
her OPS. Although the review required Royal London to determine whether Mrs C had been 
wrongly advised to leave her employers scheme, in the outcome of the review it didnt tell 
Mrs C whether or not shed been wrongly advised. Instead, it informed her that it didnt think 
she would suffer a loss as a result of the advice. So, I dont think Mrs C couldve reasonably 
questioned whether the advice to transfer out was unsuitable.
Mrs C has told us that in 2003 she met with a new financial adviser who told her straight 
away that she should rejoin her OPS and how foolish she was not to have rejoined it yet. 
Mrs C followed this advice and rejoined the scheme, transferring the benefits held in the 
personal pensions with Royal London to buy extra years service. But this wasnt enough to 
cover the full period of service she wouldve been eligible to purchase. And Mrs C says that 
she has lost the right to retire at 55 without the loss of benefits as a result.
I think at this point, in 2003, Mrs C ought to have been aware of her cause for complaint 
about both the advice to transfer out of the OPS and the failure of Royal London to advise 
her to rejoin the OPS. Ill explain why.Mrs C says that she feels the advice to leave the OPS was inappropriate because she was 
likely to continue to work in her field for the remainder of her career. So, she says she 
wouldve been able to rejoin the HNS OPS whenever she starting working for a hospital 
again. Given that in 2003 Mrs C had been told she had been eligible to rejoin since 1997, 
and that she always believed she wouldve returned to working at a hospital at some point, 
I think she ought reasonably to have questioned whether she shouldve been advised to 
transfer out of her OPS at all. Mrs C knew at this point she had lost out on pensionable 
service and protections as a result of transferring out of the scheme. So, I think she ought to 
have complained within three years of her rejoining the OPS in 2003.
In 2003 Mrs C was told she couldve rejoined the scheme in 1997. Royal London had 
conducted reviews with her since then, but hadnt advised her to rejoin the scheme. So, 
I think she ought reasonably to have known she had reason to complain about not being 
advised to rejoin the scheme within three years of this date.
As Mrs C didnt complain about either of these issues until 2020, I think both of these 
aspects of the complaint have been made too late. So, I cant consider them.
Mrs C said she didnt know she could complain at the time, and she also didnt realise the 
true implications of the advice until she approached her retirement. But I dont think I can 
reasonably say these are exceptional circumstances that explain why the complaints were 
made so long after the time limits expired. The pension review letter sent to her by Royal 
London in 2000 informed her that there was a complaints procedure. And in any event, 
knowing you can complain and knowing you had reason to complain are different matters, 
and its the latter which is the test under our rules. Furthermore, Mrs C knew in 2003 that the 
advice to leave the OPS had had an impact on her pension  I dont think she needed to 
know how much of an impact it would have in order to raise her complaints.
There is no dispute that Mrs Cs complaint about the advice she was given to contract out of 
SERPS was made in time. For completeness, I also think this complaint was made in time 
as I dont think Mrs C had any reason to question this advice until recently.
The advice to contract out of SERPS
Ive carefully considered Mrs Cs complaint about the advice she was given to contract out of 
SERPS. Having done so, I agree with the investigators view, and for broadly the same 
reasons.
The advice was provided to Mrs C in 1988. At the time, Royal London was a member of the 
Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). LAUTRO required 
members to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal with investors fairly. Members 
were required to consider the investors financial position generally and to all other relevant 
circumstances when giving advice, but there was no requirement to complete a fact-find or 
issue a recommendation later. So, there is very little documentation relating to the advice.
But overall, taking into account what I know about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, 
I havent seen anything that makes me think the advice Mrs C was given about contracting 
out of SERPS was unsuitable for her.
When the government decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS, incentives 
were offered to encourage them to do so. No guidance was provided to firms about who 
should be advised to remain in SERPS or who was likely to benefit from contracting out. So 
pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS 
with those from alternative personal pension arrangements. The calculations were based on what were considered to be relatively conservative assumptions of future investment returns 
at the time.
Those that contracted out of SERPS were paid rebates by the government. The rebates 
were set in such a way that it was generally more attractive for younger people to contract-
out than those who were older. The ages where advice changed about whether to contract-
out or not were called pivotal ages. In 1988, Royal Londons pivotal age for women was 40. 
So, it considered that females under 40 were likely to be better off by contracting out. This 
was because they had a sufficiently long investment horizon to achieve growth on the 
rebates paid to them by the government. Mrs C was 23 at the time of the advice, so she was 
significantly below the pivotal age for women, meaning there was substantial time and 
opportunity for investment growth before she would likely retire.
Another factor used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off contracting-out
of SERPS was their amount of earnings. The application form confirmed that Mrs Cs income
was around £7,600 per year. At the time, because the government was offering a 2% 
incentive to contract out, Royal London didnt set a minimum level of earnings. But when the 
incentive was removed in 1993/1994, the minimum level of earnings was £4,000 per year. 
Given Mrs Cs earnings in 1988 were almost double the minimum requirement a few years 
later, I think her earnings were sufficiently high enough to ensure that rebates forwarded by 
the government would cover the plan charges.
Ive also considered the fact that there was some investment risk attached to Mrs Cs 
pension plan and she did not appear to have previous investment experience. Contracting 
out of SERPS meant that Mrs C would be giving up her entitlement to SERPS in the hope 
that the contributions would grow in excess of the pension she couldve expected to receive 
from the state. There is no record of Mrs Cs attitude to risk, but the contributions were 
invested into the with-profits fund, which was considered to be a cautious fund at the time. 
I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs C was unable to take any risk with these funds. So, 
I dont think the arrangement was too risky for her, given that she had over 30 years before 
she could start to think about retiring and so she had time to recoup any losses.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs C met the criteria at the time and I think there was a 
reasonable prospect that Mrs C could be better off by contracting-out from SERPS. For this 
reason, I dont think the advice from Royal London here was unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman