DRN-3838648
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call H, has complained about QBE UK Limiteds settlement of 
a claim for business interruption under its business insurance policy. 
Mr C, as a director of H, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2022, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
In January 2021, H made claim under the policy for losses incurred as a result of 
restrictions imposed by the Government in response to the Covid-19 pandemic in March 
2020. 
QBE accepted the claim and paid H what it calculated it had lost in gross revenue between 
23 March to 22 June in 2020. It calculated this based on revenue during the same period in 
2019, having applied an uplift to reflect an upward trend in the business and then deducting 
an amount that it considered H had saved in costs while it was closed. QBE also said H was 
underinsured and reduced the settlement by a percentage to reflect the percentage by which 
it said H was underinsured. 
However, H thinks that it should have paid more in settlement of the claim. H complained 
about a number of issues, including that: 
 QBE had said that H was underinsured, as incorrect figures had been provided by 
   the broker that arranged the policy. It is not fair to reduce the settlement when it 
   would have paid the additional premium for full cover if it had known. 
 The indemnity period is three months when it continued to be impacted by the   
   pandemic beyond this time period. 
 It has lost future revenue as a result of cancellations made in the period 23 March  
  June 2020. 
 The policy says it covers loss of gross revenue, so it is not fair to deduct supposed 
   costs savings and in any case, some of the costs QBE deducted were incorrect.
 It says the policy covers loss of revenue but it had to give credit notes to customers 
   whose bookings couldnt be fulfilled to use after restrictions were lifted, rather than 
   providing refunds. The value of these credits was approximately £40,000. QBE has     
   not allowed for these as loss of revenue, even though they are being redeemed 
   and therefore affecting current revenue. 
QBE responded to Hs complaint. Since then, H has accepted that the policy terms allow a 
deduction for savings in costs when calculating the business losses, and that cover under 
the relevant part of the policy is limited to a three-month indemnity period. And QBE adjusted 
some of the costs it deducted. 
The issues that remained when the complaint was brought to us  [were] that QBE had 
deducted for the underinsurance and about the credits that H provided to customers that 
could not use Hs services during the three-month indemnity period and cancellations made 
during that period for future bookings for which H also provided credits against the deposits 
paid. 
Since the complaint was brought to us, QBE has reversed the deduction for underinsurance. 
So the only outstanding issue to be determined is regarding the credits and cancellations 
during the indemnity period. 
QBE says the policy only covers lost revenue for services that cannot be rendered during the 
three-month indemnity period. As H had received the payment, if it paid H the value of the 
credits it would mean H would have been paid twice for those bookings. And any bookings 
due to take place after the period of indemnity but cancelled during the period of indemnity 
would not count towards loss of income, as income from them would not have been due 
within the indemnity period. 
H doesnt think this is fair. H says if it had refunded customers, it would have been covered 
for the same amount. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she thought QBEs settlement was fair. 
H does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Hs claim was met under the section of cover for business interruption as a result of a 
manifestation of disease at the premises, or within 25 miles of it. The issue that I have to 
decide is whether the settlement made is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms of 
the policy. 
The policy says that claims for business interruption will be settled on the following basis: 
We shall indemnify you against either: 
a) loss of gross revenue in accordance with the following provisions: 
i) by paying for the indemnity period the amount by which the gross revenue 
during the indemnity period falls short of the gross revenue during the 
equivalent period immediately before the damage; 
ii) by paying any reasonable additional expenses incurred in maintaining the 
gross revenue during the indemnity period but not more than the loss avoided 
under a) less any amount saved during the indemnity period in respect of 
reduced expenses due to the damage; or 
b) increased cost of working in accordance with the following provisions: 
i) by paying any reasonable additional expenses incurred in maintaining 
the gross revenue during the indemnity period but not more than the 
loss avoided under a) less any amount saved during the indemnity 
period in respect of reduced expenses due to the damage; as 
specified in the schedule. Gross Revenue is defined as: Gross revenue means the money paid or payable to you for 
work done and for services rendered in course of the business at the premises. 
QBE paid the difference between the income (with the adjustments mentioned for costs and 
upwards trend in business) for MarchJune 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. It 
says the credit notes dont amount to loss of revenue but are effectively deferred income and 
if it were to cover the value of the credits, H would effectively receive double indemnity. 
H did receive income (to the value of around £40,000) during the period of indemnity but the 
definition of gross revenue in the policy says that it means money paid or payable to H for 
work done and services rendered. 
The term services rendered is not defined in the policy but is generally considered to mean 
that the services have already been provided. So any payments received by H for services 
which could not be rendered, or for work that could not be done, during the indemnity period 
March to June 2020, would not in my opinion constitute gross revenue under the policy. 
They are instead payments on account (credits) for future services which H would have 
taken at a later date if it wasnt for the pandemic. As such, I dont agree that by reimbursing 
the value of the credit notes H would be doubly indemnified. 
For the same reasons, I do not consider that any bookings due to take place after the period 
of indemnity but cancelled during the period of indemnity would count towards loss of 
revenue, as the services and work done in relation to them wouldnt have been supplied 
during the indemnity period. 
Having considered everything, I therefore agree that the credits H provided to customers for 
bookings that were meant to take place between 23 March and 22 June 2020, should 
reasonably be considered lost gross revenue. I also think interest should be paid on the 
additional settlement due. I think it would be reasonable for this to be paid from the date the 
first interim settlement payment was made, which I believe was June 2021. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons set out above, I intend to require QBE UK Limited to recalculate the loss of 
gross revenue, after deducting  the value of credits H provided to its customers for 
bookings which were meant to take place during the period of indemnity, and pay H the 
difference between this and the amount it has already paid. QBE UK Limited should also add 
interest to this amount from the date it made the first payment in settlement of the claim to 
the date this amount is paid, at 8% simple per annum.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
H has confirmed it accepts my provisional decision. 
QBE has not responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As no further information has been provided, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I require QBE UK Limited to: 
1. recalculate the loss of gross revenue, after deducting the value of credits H provided 
to its customers for bookings which were meant to take place during the period of 
indemnity, and pay H the difference between this and the amount it has already paid. 
2. QBE UK Limited should also add interest to this amount from the date it made the 
first payment in settlement of the claim to the date this amount is paid, at 8% simple 
per annum.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman