DRN-2885063
The complaint
 Mr L complains that on two occasions Santander UK Plc unfairly declined his application for 
a Bounce Back Loan and, in the process, provided poor service. 
 
What happened
 Mr L is a longstanding customer of Santander. On 24 June 2020 he applied to the bank for 
a £7,000 Bounce Back Loan, but his application was declined. 
In early August 2020 Mr L applied to the bank again, albeit for an increased amount of 
£12,000. Later that month Mr Ls second application was also declined. 
Mr L called Santander on 21 August 2021 to find out the reason for the decline and asked to 
speak to someone in the Bounce Back Loan team. But the Santander employee to whom 
Mr L spoke told him that wasnt possible because the department didnt provide a customer 
facing service. He also told Mr L there was no appeal against the banks decision and 
therefore, Mr L would have to reapply for the loan. Mr L didnt think this was helpful. 
In October 2020, with the help of one of the banks business managers, Mr L did re-apply 
and his application was successful. The loan was drawn down in November 2020. 
Mr D didnt think his first two Bounce Back Loan applications were dealt with appropriately. 
In relation to the first application, he said in July 2020 one of the banks business managers 
called and told him Santander had made an error when they declined the application. He 
said the business manager told him to reapply and that he would be successful. He said he 
provided information to verify his business and could see no clear reason why his second 
application was unsuccessful. So, Mr L complained to the bank. 
In their response to Mr Ts complaint, Santander said they didnt do anything wrong. They 
said Mr Ls first application was declined automatically because hed made an error when 
completing the application form. In relation to his second application, Santander said they 
declined it because Mr L didnt provide them with sufficient information regarding his 
business. 
Mr L didnt agree with Santanders position and therefore, referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said Mr Ls first application was 
correctly declined because of the error Mr L made when he completed the form. And she 
said that Santander had fairly declined the second application as they werent satisfied with 
the evidence Mr L had provided about the nature of business, which had been required as 
he was trading through a personal account. And in relation to the 21 August 2020 phone call, 
she said Santanders employee had followed the correct process and given correct 
information to Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators conclusion. He reiterated that the business manager 
to whom he spoke in July had not only invited him to reapply for the loan but assured him 
there wouldnt any problems with his application.
Mr L also didnt think the investigator took proper account of the impact on him of the banks 
rejection of his applications. He said the purpose of the Bounce Back Loan was to provide 
quick financial help to business affected by the pandemic. And because of the initial 
rejections he was without income, which meant his car finance and utility bill went unpaid. 
He believes that his credit rating might have suffered, which in turn could have impacted his 
livelihood because the nature of his work is such that he needs to maintain a good credit 
record. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
   Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Poor customer service
At the heart of Mr Ls concerns is the telephone call that took place with the banks employee 
on 21 August 2020. I have listened to the call. It was clear Mr L was disappointed with the 
outcome of his second application. And its understandable he wanted to speak to someone 
from the Bounce Back Loan team about that. Although Mr L didnt think the employee was 
telling him the truth when he explained he couldnt transfer him to anyone in that team since 
they werent customer facing, Im satisfied that he was being truthful. Santander has 
explained that because of the volume of applications for Bounce Back Loans, the 
department was shielded from direct customer engagement. On balance, I dont think that 
was an unreasonable position for Santander to adopt. 
Nonetheless, I do also note from the call that the employee offered to discuss with Mr L the 
reasons his application was declined. Its unfortunate that by then Mr L seemed to have lost 
all trust in the employee and therefore didnt appear willing to accept his offer. Although, like 
the investigator, I can understand why Mr L would have felt frustrated by that encounter with 
the bank, I dont think Mr L was provided with poor service. 
The decline of Mr Ls first application
I have seen the application Mr L completed in June 2020. In the section Santander A/C 
use, Mr L put other. Santander were only accepting applications from personal customers 
who were using their account for business purposes  so they say this led to the application 
being automatically declined. I think Mr L made a genuine error when completing the form, 
but I think it was reasonable for Santander to decline the application on this basis in line with 
their policy.
The decline of Mr Ls second application
Mr L is clear in his recollection that the business manager who contacted him in July 2020 
told him he should reapply for the Bounce Back Loan because the bank had made an error 
when declining his first application. But as Ive noted earlier, I do not find there was any such 
error.   
Mr L also said he was told there wouldnt be a problem with the second application. 
Unfortunately, Santander dont have a recording of this call. They said calls made by their 
business managers are from their mobile phones and such calls arent recorded. 
Im satisfied, however, that Mr L did receive a call and was invited to reapply. On balance, 
because of the circumstances in which the first application was declined, Im  also 
persuaded that Mr L was given an assurance to the effect that there ought to be no problem 
with the second application. But by the nature of it being an application, it would always have 
been subject to some assessment and approval couldnt be guaranteed. In the event, Mr Ls second application didnt go smoothly and was ultimately declined. 
Santander have explained that this was because the documents Mr L provided in support 
werent sufficient, nor were they in a form that was acceptable to them. It isnt clear from Mr 
Ls evidence whether he was told by the business manager in the July the documents he 
should provide in order to ensure a successful application. But Mr L has told us he did.   
Santander have identified the documents they received from Mr L in support of his second 
application. They were:
Handwritten invoices from 2019 in favour of one of the companies for whom Mr L 
worked.
A further invoice in favour of another company totaling £921 for whom Mr L also 
worked
A handwritten letter confirming Mr Ls Unique Taxpayer Reference (UTR).   
A copy of a business insurance policy dated 19 August 2020. 
Santander said the reason the documents werent acceptable was because they included 
ones that were handwritten and were therefore open to manipulation. They couldnt link the 
£921 invoice to any credits made to Mr Ls account and, given how recently the business 
insurance policy had been taken out, they were concerned this may have happened merely 
for the purpose of the application. 
Whilst Santander may well have had concerns about Mr Ls handwritten invoices, Im not 
sure in that form they were any more susceptible to manipulation compared to printed ones. 
That being said, the evidence Santander have presented indicates the unacceptability of 
handwritten invoices werent the sole reason for the decline of Mr Ls application. There were 
uncertainties regarding his other invoice, his insurance policy and the handwritten letter with 
details of his UTR. 
Mr L doesnt dispute that, for example, the printed invoice for £921 didnt show up in the 
credits to his account. He thinks its possible the funds were paid into another account. He 
argues, however, that theres no reason he wouldnt have sent the actual HMRC letter along 
with the handwritten letter. But Mr L has provided no clear evidence that was the case. For 
example, his note does not indicate the hard copy document was attached. And its difficult 
to understand why hed have chosen to duplicate the same information in handwritten form if 
he was intending to send the actual letter.
Santander were entitled to assess applications against their own criteria. They didnt think 
the documents were sufficient to give a clear enough picture of Mr Ls business. And when 
taken as a whole, it does not seem to me an unreasonable conclusion for them to come to. I 
dont think I can fairly conclude therefore, that Santander acted wrongly when they declined 
Mr Ls second application.
Im pleased Mr L was successful in his third application. Santanders internal notes confirm 
that Mr L was able to communicate with the bank through their chatbox facility on 21 August 
2020 and with help from one of their employee Mr L did manage to more precisely present 
the documents the bank required from him. 
Mr L has explained these events happened at a very difficult time for him and I note the 
impact hes described. Im sure he would have been very worried about the absence of any 
income since the start of the pandemic when he could no longer work. And the knock-on 
effects in terms of his inability to meet his outgoings would undoubtedly have been worrying. 
However, for the reasons set out above, Im unable to conclude this was the result of 
anything Santander did wrong. 
 My final decision
  For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman