DRN-3996968
The complaint
Mr P complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited Crowdcube gave him misleading 
information about a company (A) he invested in through its platform. He wants Crowdcube 
to reimburse his losses.
What happened
Crowdcube operates an equity crowdfunding platform providing investing opportunities in
small or start-up companies to investors in exchange for shares. 
In March 2017, Mr P invested in A through Crowdcubes platform. As well as the funds 
raised through Crowdcube, A had a loan facility with a bank, B. The second tranche of this 
loan was due to be released a few months after the crowdfunding round. When the time 
came, B didnt release the additional funds because A hadnt met the revenue targets 
specified in the terms of the loan. Shortly afterwards, A was sold, resulting in Mr P making a 
substantial loss on his investment.
Mr P then discovered that, before the round of crowdfunding, A had breached another of the
covenants of the loan. He complained to Crowdcube, saying it should have disclosed this
breach in the pitch on its website, or the accompanying documents it sent him about A. He
said it should reimburse his losses.
One of our investigators looked into things, and didnt think Crowdcube had done anything
wrong. He said Crowdcube had warned Mr P the investment in A was high risk and that the
company could fail. Also, on its website it also said investors should take care to carry out 
their own due diligence on prospective investments. As a result, he thought it had done 
enough to explain the risks of the investment and had presented information about A in a 
clear way. Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter, so the case 
was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 February 2023  I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint.
This is what I said:
The crux of this complaint is about the information Crowdcube provided Mr P about A. Ive 
thought about Crowdcubes obligations under the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCAs 
rules. At the time of promoting As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised and 
regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required 
to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principle here is:
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients,
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the information 
contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators 
intention to provide a set of tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be 
approved so what these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any 
given case, is something which is very much left to each platform to determine. In this 
circumstance, the level of due diligence Crowdcube carried out here isnt the issue. Instead, 
as the complaint centres on the fact that Crowdcube knew of the covenant breach, the 
question is whether Crowdcube ought to have included that information when it promoted 
the investment to Mr P and whether I am reasonably persuaded that had it done so, this 
would have made Mr P reconsider his investment in A.
Ive borne in mind that the FCA said the following in 2015 when it issued a review of the 
regulatory regime for crowdfunding:
Firms need to provide investors with appropriate information, in a comprehensive 
form, so that they are reasonably able to understand the nature and risks of the 
investment, and, consequently, to make investment decisions on an informed basis".
One of the areas of concern the FCA identified was a situation where a platform provided:
insufficient, omitted or the cherry-picking of information, leading to a potentiality 
misleading or unrealistically optimistic impression of the investment.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other
things):
-The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
So Crowdcube needed to ensure any information it gave Mr P about A was fair, clear, and
not misleading, and enabled him to make an informed decision whether to invest, armed with
knowledge of the nature and risks of an investment into the company.
Whilst I appreciate Mr P had invested prior to the publication of the 2019 consultation paper
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation andapplication of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the
time.
Crowdcube provided Mr P with As financial snapshot as well as a legal explanatory note 
with more information about the company. The explanatory note says A has an agreement to 
borrow a total of £3.5million from B. At the time of the crowdfunding raise, it had drawn down 
£2million of the facility, with the rest to be drawn down a few months later. The note 
proceeds to say the second tranche is dependent on A meeting revenue targets, that there 
are financial covenants in the loan agreement relating to As cash and revenue, and that 
these covenants are in the process of being amended. The financial snapshot too, mentions 
the covenants and says A needs to hold specific levels of cash.
To my mind, making mention of the covenants and its renegotiation but failing to say why, or 
that theyd previously been breached, failed to give a full and clear picture of the loan 
arrangement. So, I dont think that it was sufficiently clear to allow Mr P to weigh up the risks 
and benefits of investing in A.
In addition, there is no indication from the information that was presented to Mr P that A held 
any concerns about achieving the loan covenants. Instead, it said it thought the money 
raised from the crowdfunding round should give it enough cash to meet its debt covenants 
for some time.
But in these particular circumstances I find that was misleading, because where the 
promotion details that A was reliant on a lending facility involving covenants relating to As 
financial position, its ability to meet those covenants was a particular risk. So, I think  
knowledge of how A had performed against those covenants in the past would be a material 
factor in allowing investors like Mr P to make an informed choice about that risk, and 
whether it was one he was willing to accept. 
In its response to this point, Crowdcube has said the first was a technical breach, and the 
latter was a different breach relating to the same covenant. So, two separate and unrelated 
breaches had occurred with the final resulting in the second tranche of borrowing being 
withheld. In addition, Crowdcube has maintained the explanatory note demonstrated the 
covenants were in the process of being amended, and investors like Mr P were encouraged 
to do their own due diligence. 
I accept that the initial breach was unrelated, however I find that the promotion failed to give 
full context to the statements about the covenants. This was material information about As 
viability and the risk that investing in the company presented. In my view, failing to mention 
this history meant Crowdcube failed to give Mr P the appropriate and necessary information 
to enable him to make an informed decision about whether to invest in A or not. So, Im not 
persuaded Crowdcube communicated with Mr P in a fair, clear and not misleading way when 
it promoted A.
Im satisfied Crowdcube didnt promote the investment in A to Mr P in a way that was clear 
fair and to misleading. So, the next question for me to consider is whether I think this 
omission would have affected Mr Ps decision to invest. Ive taken into account Mr Ps 
submissions. He says he was swayed into investing based on the promotion. He understood 
that A was to receive the full loan arrangement from B and that As ability to expand and 
grow was contingent on that arrangement, especially as the funds raised from the 
crowdfunding were to serve as a complement to the debt finance. Im therefore persuaded 
that any potential risks that this additional funding might not materialise, wouldve altered the 
prospect of A not succeeding as a company.I find his testimony particularly convincing  Mr P was prepared to take the risk in A based 
on what the pitch was telling him. He hadnt been presented with any indication that A had 
failed to meet its loan covenants in the past, which otherwise would have led him to seriously 
consider the possibility that this might happen again in the future and therefore, the prospect 
of As funding not materialising.
In light of this, Im persuaded that had the promotion included detail of the breach, Mr P 
wouldnt have invested. So, I think Crowdcube should refund Mr Ps investment into A, less 
anything hes received from the sale of the company.
Mr P responded to the provisional decision clarifying that hed received a cheque for £159.30 
on 14 June 2018 as payment for his shares after the sale of A. He confirmed the cheque 
hadnt been cashed.
Crowdcube didnt provide any new information or evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Crowdcube has not made more comments or arguments for me to consider, Ive got no 
reason to change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
I have noted Mr Ps comments about the uncashed cheque from 2018. Crowdcube should 
note that if a cheque was previously issued to Mr P following the sale of A but remains 
uncashed, the cheque is unlikely to remain valid. It should however be cancelled, and so this 
amount shouldnt be deducted from the overall redress.
To confirm, for the reasons described in my provisional decision, I find that Crowdcube failed 
to provide Mr P with clear, fair and misleading information when promoting A. But for these 
failings, I dont think Mr P would have invested. I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Crowdcube should put Mr P in the position hed have been in had he not
invested. It should therefore refund to Mr P the amount he invested in A, less anything hes
received from the sale of the company.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Crowdcube 
Capital Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman