DRN-3986932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Coutts & Company (Coutts) didnt handle their request to 
remove Mrs C from the mortgage fairly.  Mr C said he was given assurances that doing this 
wouldnt be an issue but when the application was made, it was declined. Mr C feels that 
Coutts havent property considered his income when assessing affordability. Mr C says that 
this has caused him significant legal costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Coutts in May 2007. The mortgage was taken out for 
£850,000 on an interest only basis with a term of five years. 
This facility was renegotiated in 2009 where Mr and Mrs C borrowed additional funds, they 
then borrowed an additional £30,000 in November 2014. In addition to this, in 2014, Coutts 
agreed to a loan of £120,000 and a £10,000 overdraft in order to refinance an existing 
overdraft to a more favourable interest rate.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage facility reached the end of its term, but they were unable 
to secure a new mortgage because they didnt pass the affordability assessment carried out 
by Coutts. However, by 2017, Coutts agreed to a ten-year interest only mortgage which was 
fixed for five years  as a concession to Mr and Mrs C situation.
Coutts said they didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was affordable but felt that 
consolidating the mortgages and loans together was in Mr and Mrs Cs best interests  
despite this falling outside of what their lending policy allowed. 
Shortly after, Mr and Mrs C separated and it was agreed that Mrs C was entitled to receive 
66% of the property value and by March 2018, the property was put up for sale for £2.2M. It 
wasnt until May 2020 an offer was made on the property for £2M which Mr and Mrs C 
considered. 
Mr C said that the sale of the property would incur various costs. He said he would have to 
pay £23,000 early repayment charge (ERC), £20,000 in estate agent costs and around 
£5,000 conveyancing costs. So Mr and Mrs C considered the option of buying Mrs C out of 
the property rather than it being sold. 
Mr C emailed his private banker at Coutts on 16 July 2020 to ask about the possibility of 
buying out Mrs C and he said that the adviser responded saying cant foresee any issues 
with this. Mr C said he took this to mean that there wouldnt be any issues with this, and it 
would just be a formality. 
Mr C said that following this response, they decided not to accept the offer on the property 
and said he would buy out Mrs C instead. Mr C said that at this point, Mrs C began 
searching for a new home.
When Mr C spoke to Coutts again, he was told that he would need to make a formal 
application in order to buy out Mrs C and he proceeded to make an application on 9 
November 2020. Coutts declined the application and said they didnt accept the risk of 
removing Mrs C as the mortgage was then deemed to be unaffordable.
As a result of this, Mr and Mrs C entered into an alternative arrangement in order to settle 
Mrs Cs interest in the property which involved arranging a second charge against the 
property which Coutts didnt object to. Mr C said that this option was far less favourable than 
if Mrs C was allowed to be removed from the mortgage instead. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy that Coutts declined the mortgage application, so they brought 
their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it as looked at by one of our 
investigators. 
The investigator thought that Coutts did misinform Mr C about the process for wanting to 
remove Mrs C from the mortgage and recognised that this caused them both trouble and 
upset. So he thought that Coutts should pay £250 compensation to both Mr and Mrs C  
individually  so £500 in total. The investigator also concluded that Coutts should pay an 
additional £250 to Mrs C for the loss of expectation and stress when she had to withdraw an 
offer she made on a property - because of what happened. 
The investigator however didnt think that the misinformation was the reason that Mr and Mrs 
C decided to pursue a different course of action rather than sell the property. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this, so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. Mr C made the following comments:
It was never their intention to repay the mortgage except when Mr Cs business was 
sold
Whilst Coutts claim there was a concession to grant the mortgage in 2016, Mr C was 
under the impression it was granted as he did what they asked him to do  (he had to 
deposit a sum into another account for a year and keep the repayments going)
- It would be Mr Cs assumption that as he kept repayments going for five 
years, this would also work
- If Coutts staff were so clear that the mortgage was granted despite their 
belief it was affordable, there should have been some communication with 
him
There is confusion that Mr C had been told in July 2020 that removing Mrs C from the 
mortgage would require a full application, and the outcome would have been the 
same as if he was rejected in November. Mr and Mrs C would have applied for a 
mortgage in July and if it had been rejected, they would have sold their house to the 
prospective buyers. It would have taken Coutts a matter of days to agree or decline 
the application. 
Coutts claim that there was a risk of removing Mrs C from the mortgage as two 
people are better than one, so why did they reject the idea of him adding his new 
partner onto the mortgage?
The mortgage was declined because the business performance should be 
considered when considering the mortgage. He is 100% the owner of his business 
and most banks will recognise in an Entrepreneurial world that owners and business 
finances get blurred. He takes out of the business the minimum he can but enough to 
keep his financial situation afloat. His mortgage payments have almost doubled but 
he has no issues servicing the debt as the business is very profitable (£700K last 
year)
Mr and Mrs C decided to buy out Mrs C rather than put the house back on the market 
in November to reduce the emotional strain on the family. Mrs C had found a house 
and wanted to make a fresh start. Remarketing the house could have taken months 
and the property had already been on the market for nearly two years.
Mr C said the key to the complaint here is that had they been given the correct information in 
July by his private banker, they would have taken a different path and sold the house. Mr C 
said this has caused a great deal of stress for them and due to the complexities of still having joint financial connections  the house has now been sold.  So all of the costs they 
paid previously to lawyers were clearly wasted.  
Mr C said that his private banker should have known that the mortgage would have been 
declined as Coutts have been very clear in stating all the reasons why Mr C didnt pass the 
affordability assessment. This has resulted in costs incurred of around £5,000. Mr C has put 
this in perspective by saying this is:
15% of Mr and Mrs Cs legal costs
Less 1% of his annual mortgage cost
Approximately 7% of the annual salary of a private banker
0.0002% of Coutts predicted profits for 2022
As Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the outcome, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2023. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mr and Mrs C have said and I know they 
feel very strongly about their complaint. They have provided detailed comments in 
support of their views which I can confirm Ive read and understood in their entirety. 
However, I trust that Mr and Mrs C will not take the fact that my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably 
less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point 
raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. 
The crux of the issue here is that Mr and Mrs C feel they have been misinformed by 
Coutts when an email was sent to Mr C saying that Coutts didnt foresee a problem in 
response to Mr Cs email about removing Mrs C from the mortgage. Mr and Mrs C 
feel that had they of been given the correct information at the time  that they would 
need to make a full application which wouldnt have been agreed due to the 
mortgage not being affordable  they would have gone ahead and accepted the offer 
made on their property in July 2020  rather than waiting until November 2020 when 
they were told an application would be needed. 
Did Coutts mislead Mr C about the possibility of removing Mrs C from the mortgage?
Ive looked at the email that Mr C sent to his private banker on 16 July 2020. Mr C 
said:
Thanks for sending the mortgage redemption. Think its worth keeping it going for at 
least one more year. One of the plans we have is that I might buy Mrs C out of the 
house. This would also mean taking her off the mortgage. I would be moving into the 
house with my new partner who would effectively buy Mrs Cs share. 
Do you foresee any issues?
Mr Cs private banker responded with the following:
No cant foresee any issues with this  do let us know when ready and will assist you 
accordingly.
Mr C said he took this to believe that there would be no issues in removing Mrs C 
from the mortgage and off the back of this information, both he and Mrs C made certain decisions, such as not accepting the offer on their house  which has since 
resulted in them incurring considerable financial costs. 
Coutts have said they felt the reply by the private banker implied that he didnt see 
any issues with Mr C applying to remove Mrs C from the mortgage. But that the 
outcome was dependent on Coutts meeting the regulators requirements which they 
are required to do.
While I understand the point that Coutts are making here, I dont think Mr C was 
asking if he could apply to remove Mrs C from the mortgage. He was specifically 
asking about taking her off the mortgage and adding his new partner on. He then 
asked if there would be any issues with this. 
I appreciate that Mr C took this response to mean that there would be no issues in 
doing so and he strongly believes they made decisions off the back of that  which I 
will come on to shortly.
However, I do think that Coutts should have made things clearer to Mr C. This was 
Mr Cs private banker after all, and he would have been aware of Mr Cs 
circumstances and situation and would also have been aware that the mortgage Mr 
and Mrs C currently had  was agreed as a concession. Coutts said they agreed this 
previously even though they didnt believe the mortgage was affordable. 
Coutts have said that the email that the private banker sent had no contractual effect, 
so they were not bound by what Mr C had inferred from the response. I do agree with 
this  I dont think it had any contractual effect. But the private banker should have 
explained that it was something that Coutts could do (taking Mrs C off the mortgage) 
but that Mr C would need to make an application in order to do so. 
Mr C was given the correct information in November 2020  several months after he 
sent the email to the private banker. So he knew at this point that the mortgage 
wouldnt be agreed because Coutts deemed it to be unaffordable. 
What I have to now consider is what would have happened had the private banker 
made it clear in his email of what the process actually was. So in essence, If Mr C 
knew what he knew in November back in July  what would Mr and Mrs C have 
done. And is the email that was sent by the private banker in July the reason that 
they took the actions that they did.
Impact of misinformation
Mr and Mrs C said that because of the email they were sent by the private banker, 
they decided not to accept the offer they had on their house at the time. And instead 
decided not to sell their property  and buy Mrs C out instead. They said they have 
now lost out on that buyer and have since incurred additional unnecessary legal fees 
associated with Mrs C having to also pull out of the property that she had found and 
made an offer on.
Having considered everything carefully, I cant agree that the reason for Mr and Mrs 
C deciding not to go ahead with the sale of their property was solely reliant on the 
email Mr C received from his private banker. Ill explain why.
The email that Mr C sent his private banker on 16 July 2020 said the following:
Thanks for sending the mortgage redemption. Think its worth keeping it going for at 
least one more year. One of the plans we have is that I might buy Mrs C out of the 
house.
Based on this email, it looks like this is something Mr C was already thinking about  
as in not selling the property and instead, considering buying Mrs C out of the 
property. Mr C also said when he complained to Coutts that selling the property would incur 
costs of around £48,000 which included £23,000 ERC. So these costs could have 
been avoided if the property wasnt sold. So again in my view, it seems like this was 
something they were already thinking about beforehand. 
When Mr and Mrs C found out in November 2020 that Coutts wouldnt allow Mrs C to 
be removed from the mortgage, they made alternative arrangements in the form of a 
second charge in order to settle things instead of going ahead and selling the 
property. I note what Mr C has said, in that putting the property back on the market 
could have taken months to resolve considering it had already been on the market for 
two years  but I dont think this is because of the response Mr C got from his private 
banker. I think its more likely, based on the actions that Mr and Mrs C took  that 
they would have gone ahead with the option of a second charge against the property 
rather than selling it because it seems they were already thinking about not selling 
the property due to the high costs involved. 
And even if Coutts had given the correct information in July 2020, that Mr C could 
apply to remove Mrs C from the mortgage, this application would still need to be 
considered by Coutts.  So either way, Mr and Mrs C would need to decide whether to 
sell the property and incur the costs involved or find another way to release Mrs C 
from the mortgage. Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C decided not to sell their 
property solely because of the information they were given by the private banker in 
July 2020.
Legal costs
Mr and Mrs C feel they have incurred legal fees unnecessarily. But I think these were 
incurred because they decided to buy out Mrs C rather than sell the property which I 
dont think Coutts should be responsible for. I also have to consider that its also the 
result of Coutts declining their application in November 2020 which is an application 
that always had to happen.
Had Mr and Mrs C been told in July 2020 that they needed to make an application to 
remove Mrs C from the mortgage, its likely that Mrs C wouldnt have started to look 
for other properties and put in any offers on them until she knew that the mortgage 
application with Coutts had been approved. Thats because she would need to be 
released from their current mortgage until she would be able to commit to a new one. 
Mrs C may have incurred other costs as a direct result of her having to pull out of the 
property purchase after finding out that she couldnt be removed from her current 
mortgage. I havent seen any evidence of this but if Mrs C is able to provide this, I will 
consider asking Coutts to refund this. I also think that Coutts should pay Mrs C £250 
for the trouble and upset that this caused her. 
I do think that this would have been very stressful for Mrs C. She put in an offer on a 
property with the expectation that she would purchase it and be released from the 
mortgage  only to find out that this wasnt possible. Mrs C only started to look for a 
new home because she believed she would soon be released from the mortgage. So 
while Coutts declined the application to remove her from the mortgage, the steps she 
had taken based on being misinformed that she could come off the mortgage, meant 
there was a loss of expectation.
Were Coutts acting unfairly when they declined to remove Mrs C from the mortgage?
A lender is required to carry out an affordability assessment when they want to make 
changes that might affect affordability. There are certain situations within the 
mortgage regulations where a lender can set aside an affordability assessment if its 
in the borrowers best interests to do so. But the mortgage that Mr and Mrs C entered 
into was as a concession which Coutts had originally agreed to even though they said they didnt think it was affordable. So I think under these circumstances, it was 
fair for Coutts to want to carry out an affordability assessment to see if it was possible 
to remove Mrs C from the mortgage. Having assessed Mr Cs income, Coutts 
remained of the opinion that the mortgage wasnt affordable. Mr C doesnt think that 
Coutts have assessed his income correctly.
Mr C sent an email to Coutts on 15 December 2020 stating that when accounting for 
future growth and with his new partners income  the income would be £215,000. 
Even if Coutts accepted this income, it wouldnt have been enough to cover the 
current mortgage and the additional amount that Mr C would need to borrow in order 
to buy Mrs C out. Mr Cs new partner would also need to be on the mortgage in order 
for Coutts to include her income.
Mr C said that if his income wasnt sufficient, his own business would be able to 
afford the mortgage. But this isnt how things work. Lenders do not rely on the 
performance of a borrowers business when taking into account affordability 
assessments. It is based on the income itself to ensure that the mortgage 
repayments can be made. 
Mr C has also said that Mrs Cs income wasnt used as part of the refinancing in 
2017 so there is no reason to keep her on the mortgage  and that she hasnt 
contributed to it. Coutts deemed the mortgage to already be unaffordable and they 
said it would be unfair to burden a single borrower with an unaffordable mortgage or 
allow a new borrower to join the mortgage when it is already deemed as 
unaffordable. This to me seems the reason why Coutts were not willing to add any 
new party to the mortgage or remove Mrs C.  Having looked at the information that I 
have and the notes provided by Coutts surrounding Mr Cs income, I am not 
persuaded that they have assessed Mr Cs income incorrectly and I can understand 
why they were not happy to remove Mrs C from the mortgage. 
Even though I dont think the misinformation from July 2020 was the sole reason why 
Mr and Mrs C made the decisions they did, I do understand that this has caused 
them considerable upset and worry.  Like I already mentioned, I do understand why 
Mr C accepted the email that was sent from the private banker to mean that 
removing Mrs C from the mortgage wouldnt be an issue. And I agree with our 
investigator that Coutts should pay Mr and Mrs C £250 each for the trouble and upset 
they have been caused. As Mr and Mrs C are now separated, its evident that the 
misinformation impacted both of them for slightly different reasons which is why I 
think its fair to split this award between them. 
I will await further comments from both parties before issuing my final decision and I 
know that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with my provisional decision. But unless 
any new information changes my mind  my final decision will be based on what I 
have said above. 
My provisional decision
I am currently minded to uphold this complaint and direct Coutts & Company to pay 
Mr and Mrs C £250 each for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In addition to this, they should pay Mrs C a further £250 for the loss of expectation 
and upset when she had to pull out of the property she wanted to purchase.
If Mrs C can also evidence any financial losses incurred in doing so, she should 
provide this to me, and I am currently minded to ask Coutts to settle this too.
Developments
Coutts responded to the provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add. Mrs C responded and said she accepted the provisional decision and wouldnt be submitting 
any further information for consideration. 
Mr C responded and disagreed. He made the following comments:
Why Coutts would not accept a change on the mortgage agreement
Coutts stated a salary of £215,000 would not be enough to furnish the mortgage and the 
extra funding required to buy Mrs C out. 
Mr C said he was not looking to increase the level of the mortgage and his new 
partner was supplying the additional funds.  
Coutts have stated that their risk is reduced by having two people on the mortgage 
and they were planning on removing Mrs C and adding his new partner
He had to pass a test when he first took out the mortgage by depositing £1,200 a 
month. He would have assumed that as the mortgage had never been in default 
since parting with Mrs C and the fact that this transaction would reduce his costs by 
over £3,000 per month, there would be no issue in swapping names on the mortgage
His new partner had more assets than Mrs C which would provide Coutts with even 
greater security
The belief that had Mr and Mrs C got the correct information they would have taken 
the same course of action and not accepted the offer on the house
Mr C said there is no way they would have continued if they had been informed that it was 
not possible to remove Mrs C and add his new partner for several reasons:
His new partner provided the funds (£600,000) to buy Mrs C out of the house but as 
she cant be on the mortgage and is unable to have a charge on the house, she has 
effectively no security
The legal complexity of keeping someone on the mortgage without any ownership 
and protecting that person in the event of a mortgage default was very complex and 
costly
Part of the agreement was that Mr C would not be able to provide personal 
guarantees for the business. As the sole director, this has made trading very hard
If anyone wanted evidence, two months after moving, discussions were happening 
with estate agents on what they needed to do to put the house on the market. The 
house went on the market within 12 months after various repairs were carried out
Mr C said they had an option of either putting the house on the market or they could find a 
way of buying Mrs C out. They looked at all options and decided that buying Mrs C out was 
the best one.
The house had been on the market for a considerable period having had the option 
of selling six months earlier and they felt the family needed some stability 
Each time they hit a block in their plans, Mr Cs children pleaded with him to find a 
way forward and they would look to a legal adviser to help map out a way forward
It had taken the family six months to find a house, having made several offers only to 
be gazumped and the stress levels were impacting the health of the family on top of 
a bitter divorce
Mr C said they have been impacted financially and emotionally, as:
The offer would have been accepted and the family would have moved on
Additional legal fees would not have been incurredMr and Mrs C would not still be linked financially
Mr Cs new partner would have legal claim on the house securing her contribution to 
buying Mrs C out
Mr C said his mortgage is now over £6,000 a month so a £750 penalty represents slightly 
more than 1%. He said its not about him wanting more compensation as its the level of 
penalty thats the issue and that he would be more than happy to donate any compensation 
to charity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr C has said but unfortunately, this doesnt change 
my mind. Ive explained in detail in my provisional decision why I dont think Coutts acted 
unfairly when assessing Mr Cs income and whether they should remove Mrs C from the 
mortgage. 
Based on the income that Mr C said he would have with his new partner, this still didnt 
deem the mortgage to be affordable and its not normal practice for any lender to rely on the 
performance of a business as a guarantee that the mortgage will in fact be affordable. Coutts 
explained that as they felt the mortgage was already unaffordable, they would not want to 
burden one borrower with this by removing the joint party from the mortgage. They said the 
same about adding a new party onto the mortgage  they would not do this when the 
mortgage is still not affordable. This isnt unreasonable and I understand why Coutts didnt 
want to take this risk. Mr C said that his new partner has more assets than Mrs C  but 
mortgage affordability isnt based on assets  its purely based on the income and in this 
situation, Coutts didnt find the mortgage to be affordable in any event.
Mr C has given various reasons as to why he believes he and Mrs C wouldnt have taken the 
same course of action had they been given the correct information by Coutts in July 2020. 
He said they would have accepted the offer on their property and proceeded to sell their 
home allowing Mrs C to find her own property. I still dont agree with this. 
The email that Mr C sent Coutts in July 2020 was clear enough that they were thinking about 
other options rather than just selling the house. Mr C has said that there were high costs 
involved in selling the property and based on what he said and the actions they took, I think 
its more than likely based on what I have seen, that they would have taken the same course 
of action  by trying to remove Mrs C from the mortgage.  
I have no doubt that this has been a very stressful situation for both Mr and Mrs C but the 
further information that Mr C has provided doesnt change my mind. I therefore see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
Mrs C accepted the provisional decision and said she would not be submitting any further 
information about any financial losses she incurred in pulling out the of the property that she 
found. I therefore wont be asking Coutts to consider anything further with regards to this. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed with this, but I wont be asking Coutts to do anything 
further other than what I said in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and I 
direct Coutts & Company to:pay Mr and Mrs C £250 each for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In addition to this, they should pay Mrs C a further £250 for the loss of expectation 
and upset when she had to pull out of the property she wanted to purchase.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman