DRN-2375330
The complaint 
Mrs F and Mr F have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold 
them a packaged bank account, called a Reward Platinum account. They paid a monthly fee 
for the account and received several potential benefits in return. They think that NatWest 
should refund them the fees they paid, plus related costs. 
What happened
Both parties have agreed that NatWest sold the Reward Platinum account to Mrs F and Mr F 
during a meeting and discussion at one of its branches in October 2018. But they disagree 
quite significantly about the content of the discussion. 
One of our adjudicators has already considered what both parties have told us and didnt 
think that NatWest had mis-sold the Reward Platinum account to Mrs F and Mr F. Mrs F and 
Mr F didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs F and Mr F and NatWest have told us or sent us about the complaint, 
and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
In 2018, NatWest, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in 
two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-
advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as giving 
Mrs F and Mr F a choice, NatWest would have had to tell them about the Reward Platinum 
accounts costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale it would also have had to check 
if the Reward Platinum account was appropriate for their circumstances. 
Mrs F and Mr F have told us that NatWest advised them to buy the Reward Platinum 
account during the discussion, but NatWest has said it sold them the account on an 
information-only basis. Mrs F and Mr F have told us quite a bit about what NatWest said and 
what questions it asked them. Theyve told us that during the discussion NatWest said that 
the Platinum Reward account was the one for (them). So, it seems to me that Mrs F and Mr 
F certainly believed that NatWest was recommending the account to them personally and I 
have considered their complaint to be about an advised sale. 
In 2018, the benefits of the Reward Platinum account included worldwide travel insurance, 
use of a car breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. It also offered discounts 
on some retail products such as cinema tickets. Mrs F and Mr F have told us that they both 
drove cars and prior to 2018 had travelled within Europe from time-to-time and were 
planning a trip further afield. I understand that they both also had mobile phone. So, they 
seem to have a potential need for several of the benefits the Reward Platinum account could 
provide. However, they have said that their main interest in the account was for the travel 
insurance and that NatWest misled them about this during the discussion. 
Prior to 2018, Mr F had been diagnosed with a serious illness, or a pre-existing medical 
condition. Like many travel insurance policies, the one that came with the Reward Platinum 
did not automatically cover claims arising from such pre-existing conditions. Policyholders 
with such conditions were expected to call the insurer to provide details of their condition in a 
process known as screening. After screening, the insurer could decide whether to provide 
cover for the condition free of charge, whether to cover it for an extra fee, or whether to 
exclude it altogether. NatWest explained this in a letter to Mrs F and Mr F about the account. 
The letter had a section called  UK & Worldwide  Family  Travel  Insurance , which  said:
Do you have  any pre-existing  medical  conditions?
This policy  does  not automatically  cover  pre-existing  medical  conditions  if 
you have or think you may have a pre-existing medical condition and you would like 
to know if cover is available for your condition, please call for screening. If you do 
not call you will not be covered for any claim related to your pre-existing medical 
condition.
The letter went on to say that Mr F had a pre-existing condition and was not eligible to claim 
on (the travel policy) for (his) pre-existing medical condition(s) until (he) called to confirm 
cover on (telephone number) . 
Despite the letter, the crux of this complaint is that Mrs F and Mr F say they discussed Mr Fs 
condition with NatWest during the meeting and thought that this discussion was equivalent to 
screening, and so didnt call the insurer. Theyve told us that during the discussion they told 
NatWest about the nature of Mr Fs condition, the date it was diagnosed and the treatment 
he had received and that as NatWest went ahead with selling them the account, they 
assumed his condition would be covered. They only found out much later, during a separate 
call with the insurer, that his condition probably wasnt covered, so in the intervening period 
they think they wasted their money on paying for the account when the insurance didnt fully 
cover Mr Fs needs.
 
Firstly, I would like to point out that its good practice for a bank to tell potential customers 
about any exclusions which affect the insurance policies it sells, including those concerning 
travel insurance and pre-existing medical conditions. So, I certainly think it was reasonable 
for NatWest to have raised this with Mrs F and Mr F. However, it would not have been 
reasonable for NatWest to lead Mrs F and Mr F into thinking that its discussion during the 
meeting amounted to screening. This would have been unfair and misleading. So, the critical 
point in this complaint is whether NatWest misled Mrs F and Mr F in this way. 
Obviously, I cant tell for sure what NatWest said, or didnt say, to Mrs F and Mr F, but I think 
the content of the letter was pretty clear about screening; and I understand that NatWest 
gave it to Mrs F and Mr F either during or immediately after the meeting. I doubt that it did 
anything that was misleading. I think it did enough to let them know they needed to call the 
insurer for screening. 
So, given that Mrs F and Mr F had a potential need for the travel insurance (albeit with 
screening) and also for some of the other benefits of the Reward Platinum account, I think it 
was reasonable for NatWest to recommend the account to them. 
There is no dispute that NatWest told Mrs F and Mr F about the monthly fee for the account 
and that they knew that fee-free accounts were also available. NatWest also seems to have 
told Mrs F and Mr F about the other benefits of the account (some of which they used), and to have given them a choice. So, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the Reward Platinum 
account to Mrs F and Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs F and Mr Fs complaint that 
National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them a Reward Platinum account. I am not going to 
tell it to give them any money back
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman