DRN-3549609
The complaint
Mr C complains about the valuation Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) placed on
his van after it was stolen under his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr C had his van stolen. He made a claim to Haven, which it accepted and
confirmed a settlement payment.
Mr C thought the valuation of his van was too low. He explained the engine had recently
been replaced with a reconditioned one, as well as other replacement parts including new
brakes, shock absorbers, a turbo and alternator. He says the van was in good condition and
he thought it was worth more. He complained to Haven about this.
Haven reviewed its valuation and offered an increased payment. In its final response letter to
Mr C it says the, vehicle value declared in his policy is for £3,500. This is the limit of the
cover provided and the maximum sum payable for his claim. However, as a gesture of
goodwill it increased its settlement offer to £4,200. After taking away the policy excess
charge the settlement payment came to £3,850.
Mr C remained unhappy with the settlement payment and referred his complaint to our
service. He says Haven had also been using the wrong date for the theft of his van when
carrying out its valuation. Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think the limit
of coverage condition had been made clear in Havens policy terms. This is an important
term and she didnt think the ramifications of this were highlighted sufficiently to Mr C.
Our investigator looked at the trade guides to establish the market value of Mr Cs van from
the date it was stolen. The average valuation came to £5,200. She thought it was fair that
Haven settle Mr Cs claim based on this valuation plus 8% interest.
Haven disagreed with this outcome. It says a similar case investigated by our service had
determined that its terms and conditions were fair. Because of this it asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues for me to consider. The first is whether its fair for Haven to apply
a limit to the settlement payment of £3,500 based on the insured vehicle value set out in
the policy schedule. The second issue is whether Havens approach to establishing a value
for Mr Cs van is fair.
In its response to Mr Cs complaint Haven says the policy has an indemnity limit as set out in
the policy terms and schedule. Ive read the policy documents to understand what this
means. The policy terms say:
B1 LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO YOUR VEHICLE CAUSED BY FIRE OR THEFT
What is covered?
We will cover You in respect of loss of or damage to Your Vehicle which occurs during the
Period of Insurance caused by fire, lightning, explosion, theft, attempted theft up to the Limit
of Coverage specified in the Schedule and subject to the applicable Excess(es).
If We consider Your Vehicle is Beyond Economic Repair as a result of an accident or
incident covered by this insurance, subject to clause 9 below We will provide the owner of
Your Vehicle with settlement of its Market Value up to the Limit of Coverage after deducting
the Excess. You should be aware that We are entitled to provide settlement up to the Limit of
Coverage after deducting the applicable Excess(es) in full and final settlement of Your claim
for damage to Your Vehicle, even if that value is under-stated. Our obligation to repair Your
Vehicle shall be limited to the cost calculated by applying the proportion that the value of the
repair service that We are to provide bears to the Market Value of Your Vehicle up to the
Limit of Coverage less the applicable Excess(es).
The policy schedule says, Insured Vehicle(s): Value: £3,500.
Generally, we dont consider it fair for an insurer to limit a settlement payment to an amount
less than the market value of the vehicle. Haven says the policy limits the cover to the value
set out in the schedule. But for Haven to fairly rely on its limit of coverage term, I need to
be satisfied that it clearly highlighted the significance of this policy term, and its ramifications,
to Mr C. From the information provided, Im not satisfied that it did. I dont think its clear that
Mr C was alerted to the point that a settlement payment would be limited to the value
declared in the schedule. Or that this could be to his detriment, which it has shown to be
here. So, I dont think it would be fair for Haven to base a settlement payment on the insured
value set out in the schedule.
That said Haven did obtain a valuation using an industry trade guide, which it referred to
when offering a settlement figure. When Mr C disputed its settlement offer, Haven offered a
higher figure including a 10% increase, which it referred to as a goodwill gesture. Havens
final settlement offer was £4,200.
We checked three industry trade guides to obtain valuations at the date just prior to Mr Cs
loss. Our investigator confirmed that these gave an average valuation of £5,200. However,
two of these valuations didnt include VAT. Mr C confirms that his business is not VAT
registered. This means for Mr C to buy a replacement van he would need to pay VAT and
couldnt reclaim it from HMRC. The actual cost of Mr Cs loss must therefore include VAT. In
these circumstances I think its fair to add VAT to the settlement payment, which based on
the trade guides give an average valuation of £5,832.
Mr C says he has been inconvenienced and incurred a loss of earnings because the
payment offered didnt allow him to buy a replacement van. Haven states the policy doesnt
provide cover for loss of earnings and it felt its offer was fair and in line with the policy terms.
Mr C hasnt provided information to show the losses he refers to or what he did to try to
mitigate his loss of earnings and any reasonable costs he incurred in doing so. But I dontthink the settlement payment he was offered was fair and this has clearly impacted on his
ability to buy a replacement van. Because of the inconvenience and worry this caused I think
its fair that Haven pays Mr C £200 compensation.
Having considered all of this I dont think its fair for Haven to rely on the limit of cover set out
in the policy schedule for the reasons Ive already given. I think a fair approach is for it to
offer a settlement payment based on the market value of Mr Cs van from the time of the
loss, which, when including VAT, is £5,832. Because of the delay Haven should also pay 8%
simple interest on any unpaid part of this amount from the time of the loss until the full
payment is provided.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and that Haven Insurance Company Limited 
should:
provide a settlement payment for £5,832 in total, to include 8% simple interest on any
unpaid part of this from the date of the loss until the time this is paid; and
(*If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give
him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.)
pay Mr C £200 compensation for the inconvenience and worry it caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Haven didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr C responded to confirm the amount Haven had paid him in relation to his claim. He says 
he managed to find other work at the time his vehicle was stolen. He was working for 
someone else and explains he didnt have overhead costs but didnt earn as much as when 
he was working for himself. Mr C says this work was steady until Christmas and afterwards 
reduced to working two to three days a week. He says he went to an agency to find more 
work, and that some weeks are better than others.
Mr C explains that he was ill with Covid in November 2021 and has had it again more 
recently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the information Mr C has sent that shows the settlement payment Haven 
provided following his claim. This is less than the payment I thought should be paid. If Mr C 
accepts my final decision Haven is required to pay the amount I specified in my provisional 
decision, which is £5,832 plus interest for the part that was unpaid. I think this is a fair 
settlement. Im aware that Haven hasnt yet paid this amount. But this doesnt impact on my 
decision.
Mr C refers to the work he was able to source after his van was stolen. I note he was able to 
find work, albeit I understand Covid has twice had an impact on his ability to work. Mr C says 
he didnt earn as much but didnt have overheads to pay for. I acknowledge his comments 
that for a period he only had work for two to three days a week. 
Haven says its policy doesnt provide for loss of earnings. I have considered this point. The policy may not provide for loss of earnings, but I dont think Haven treated Mr C fairly in the 
settlement payment it provided. This caused Mr C problems when trying to replace his van. I 
dont think Mr C has clearly shown loss of earnings that couldnt be mitigated. However, I do 
think he was caused inconvenience and worry because Havens settlement payment was 
lower than the market value of his van. 
In my provisional decision I said Haven should pay Mr C £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience and worry it caused him. I have considered Mr Cs further comments, but I 
remain of the view that this is a fair amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited should:
provide a settlement payment for £5,832 in total, to include 8% simple interest on any
unpaid part of this from the date of the loss until the time this is paid; and
(*If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give
him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.)
pay Mr C £200 compensation for the inconvenience and worry it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman