DRN-3764501
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC collected mortgage interest from them
after they had paid the amount stated on the redemption statement to repay their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage included a mortgage current
account (MCA) and a reserve facility.
On 6 August 2021, Barclays sent Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor a final redemption statement. It 
said it was valid for 30 days and that the final redemption figure includes all transactions 
on the main mortgage and any linked accounts at close of business prior to the date the 
statement is issued. It also said:
On the day of redemption your clients' account will change to a Barclays Bank Account 
with no overdraft. As a result your clients should be advised to ensure their account is 
maintained in credit to avoid unnecessary bank charges. At redemption it may be 
necessary for Barclays Bank to place this account in credit to cover debit interest which will 
be applied at the normal charging period. This will ensure the overdraft borrowing has been 
satisfied in full, and that no further interest or charges are applied in regards to the overdraft 
borrowing. This will show on the statement as 'future charging interest'.
On 24 August 2021, Barclays sent Mr and Mrs D an illustrative redemption statement. It 
said, on the day the mortgage is repaid the MCA will become a Barclays bank account  
and that they should keep that account in credit to avoid charges.
On 25 August 2021, Mr and Mrs D repaid the amount stated on the final 
redemption statement.
On 17 September 2021, Barclays collected around £517 from Mr and Mrs D. It said 
this was interest charged on their MCA, which is charged in arrears. Barclays said:
The interest charge was included in the redemption amount calculations. When mortgages 
are redeemed, interest due on future date is left in credit which gets charged as per the 
date quoted in the monthly MCA statement. We transferred sufficient funds to close MCA 
on 26th August and credit left was not to be used by customer.
I issued a provisional decision, upholding the complaint in part. My provisional findings, 
which form part of this decision, were:
Ive looked carefully at what happened. Ultimately, I dont consider that Barclays has made 
an error. But I dont consider the way it communicated with Mr and Mrs D was fair. Ill 
explain why.
The MCA statement from 20 August 2021 said that overdraft interest of £517 was due on 
13 September 2021. When the mortgage was repaid, the redemption figure included the 
interest that was due, including the £517.
When Barclays received the redemption amount, part of that figure was placed as a credit 
on the MCA  in expectation of the final interest being collected on 13 September 2021. So 
if Mr and Mrs D didnt use the account after redemption, the interest would have been 
collected.
The problem here was that Mr and Mrs D did use the account  and that meant that when 
the interest was collected, it took Mr and Mrs Ds account overdrawn by around £100. I 
dont consider it was unfair for Barclays to collect the interest on 13 September.
I dont consider that Barclays communicated clearly or fairly what would happen when 
the mortgage was redeemed. I accept the August statements showed that interest was 
due to be collected on 13 September. But there were a number of shortcomings in 
Barclays communication:
While the final redemption statement sets out that a credit might be placed on the 
account  it said this would show on the statement as future charging interest. As 
far as I can see there is no reference to future charging interest on either the final 
redemption statement or the August MCA statement. The August statement refers to 
charges coming up and overdraft interest but not the wording used by Barclays. I 
can see how Mr and Mrs D (and it seems their solicitor) would understand that there 
would not be the need for any credit on the account as Barclays never told them there 
was any future charging interest applicable.
The warnings from Barclays merely state that Mr and Mrs D should maintain their 
account in credit. Bearing in mind, they reasonably understood the mortgage had 
been repaid in full  and that there was no need for a credit  I think that they 
believed they were running the account in credit.
Overall, Barclays had an obligation to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I can see how if it had used consistent language in its communication  or 
even perhaps set out in a more accessible way what it was going to do this situation 
would probably have been avoided.
I consider the £517 was always due. So I cant ask that to be refunded. But I dont
consider that Barclays communicated fairly in the circumstances of this complaint. I note that
it was only Barclays latest response to the investigator where I think it has set out its
position in a clear and understandable way.
Mr and Mrs D have acted in good faith. I think if Barclays had explained the position fairly,
they would not have used the MCA and incurred an overdraft. So I think it would be fair for
Barclays to:
Refund any interest and charges they have incurred. Barclays should confirm in
response the amount.
Remove any adverse information relating to this matter from their credit files if it has 
recorded such information.
Pay Mr and Mrs D a total of £150 for distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs D have
had the distress of seeing the unexpected payment being taken and the inconvenience of 
pursuing this matter to this extent.Barclays accepted my provisional conclusions. It confirmed that no interest and charges 
were applied because of what had happened and that it hadnt reported any adverse 
information on Mr and Mrs Ds credit files. 
Mr and Mrs D did not accept my provisional findings. They made a number of points, 
including:
Both they and their solicitor believed the final statement was just that  the final amount 
they owned. It didnt say there was further interest due.
They couldnt be expected to predict what Barclays would do.
The previous bank statement said that £517 will be added long before the final 
redemption statement was requested. There was no mention of an additional £517 being 
collected.
Barclays was not complying with its own definition on its website, which says the final 
redemption statement will confirm the exact amount, including any applicable fees and 
interest due, to fully repay your mortgage on that date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ds confusion. That is entirely understandable  Ive already found 
that Barclays communication wasnt as clear as it could have been. But Barclays did tell Mr 
and Mrs Ds solicitor:
At redemption it may be necessary for Barclays Bank to place [the MCA] in credit to cover 
debit interest which will be applied at the normal charging period. This will ensure the 
overdraft borrowing has been satisfied in full, and that no further interest or charges are 
applied in regards to the overdraft borrowing.
So Barclays did tell Mr and Mrs D that a credit would be placed on the MCA to cover any 
interest that was due. If Mr and Mrs D had not used the credit on the MCA the mortgage 
would have been repaid in full. They would not have needed to pay anything other than what 
was set out on the redemption statement. The credit (which came from their redemption 
amount) would have covered the interest that was later collected.
But Mr and Mrs D did use the MCA. They spent some of the credit that Barclays had placed 
on the account to cover the interest that was due. So when Barclays collected the interest 
that was due, there wasnt enough in the account to cover the whole amount.
As Ive said, I agree that the way Barclays has done things here could lead to confusion  
and it could have done more to tell Mr and Mrs D what it was doing. But the money was 
always due. It was only because of Mr and Mrs Ds actions that they had to pay a further 
amount. But that does not mean the final redemption statement was wrong  or not final.
Its taken Barclays a number of months to provide a clear explanation of what happened. 
And I agree that Mr and Mrs D have been caused distress and inconvenience. It is unlikely 
they would have used the MCA had Barclays been clearer about what it was doing. But 
there is no financial loss. I consider £150 is a fair amount to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs D suffered when the interest was taken from the account.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs D £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman