DRN-3838826
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined her claim for 
damage to her property, which she believes should be covered under her home insurance 
policy.
Reference to RSA includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs H contacted RSA to say she had rainwater coming in through the inner 
skin of her front cavity wall. She said the problem had started following Storm Arwen in 
November 2021 and water had been coming through for about four weeks. RSA sent a 
surveyor who concluded the damage was caused by deteriorated mortar work in the 
brickwork. They said the recent bad weather had highlighted the issue, but not caused the 
damage. Mrs H wasnt happy and complained. But RSA maintained its position. It said there 
was no storm damage to the outside of her home. And the damage had been caused by 
water getting through the deteriorated mortar and cracks in the brickwork. It said damage 
caused by gradual deterioration and wear and tear were specifically excluded under her 
policy.
Mrs H remained unhappy so brought her complaint to this service. She strongly disputed 
RSAs findings and said shed received advice from a friend of hers who was a retired 
chartered engineer. Her friend suggested two other possible ways water might have got into 
Mrs Hs property and she provided links and further information in support of her contention 
that RSAs assessment was wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think RSA needed to do anything more. He accepted there was a 
storm in November 2021 and the damage was typical of that caused by a storm. But, having 
looked at the evidence, he didnt think the storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. 
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. Mrs H said there were two strands to her complaint. First, a number 
of administrative failures by RSA. And, second, the failure of RSA to address the 
misjudgement and lack of understanding shown by its surveyor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that Mrs H has provided a lot of information in support of her complaint. And 
while I wont refer to everything shes mentioned in my decision, focusing instead on what I 
think are the key points, Id like to reassure her that Ive considered everything shes sent to 
us.
Mrs H believes the damage to the inside of her property was caused by storm conditions in 
November 2021. As our investigator explained, when we look at storm damage cases we 
ask three main questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Were there storm conditions?
Mrs Hs policy doesnt define what it means by storm conditions. But having looked at the 
weather reports at the time the damage was said to have happened, Im satisfied there were 
storm conditions in November 2021. As Mrs H said, Storm Arwen moved across the United 
Kingdom at the time and the weather reports show peak wind gusts of 78mph close to where 
she lives. So, I can answer yes to issue one.
Is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I can also answer yes to issue two. The weather reports describe the storm as being a dry 
storm. That is, there were strong winds but not a significant amount of rainfall. But strong 
winds are known to damage properties, for example by lifting tiles or felt, allowing any 
rainwater there is to penetrate. So, Im satisfied the damage claimed in this instance is 
consistent with damage typically caused by a storm. 
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
Theres no dispute here that water has penetrated Mrs Hs home and caused damage to the 
interior of her property. The question here is what caused that damage. And as there are 
several different suggested causes, its my role to weigh up the competing evidence and 
decide whether RSA has treated Mrs H fairly. 
RSAs surveyor didnt think the damage had been caused by any insured cause and instead 
was caused by deteriorated mortar works. They noticed horizontal cracking in the brickwork 
at the front of Mrs Hs property, which they said was the result of previous mortar instalments 
not being pointed up correctly. The report they produced included photographs to 
demonstrate what they meant. The surveyor said that an ingress of water was evident from 
the staining on the interior walls. And noted that the staining looked to be an ongoing 
occurrence over a long period of time, which they said was consistent with the ongoing 
external damage. 
Mrs H disputes the surveyors assessment. In summary she says:
she bought the property in September 2020; 
the Home Buyer Survey had noted some areas of cracking in the mortar around 
several areas of brick, and recommended that the wall ties be replaced; 
all the wall ties on the front and back walls were replaced in July 2021 and all the 
holes then made good with mortar;  
her friend, a retired chartered engineer, initially suggested the roof slates had lifted in 
the storm, allowing water to enter the cavity between the inner and outer walls;
her next-door neighbour had a similar experience during Storm Arwen and found that 
water had penetrated the sealing strip between the window frames of his home;on further inspection of Mrs Hs home, her friend found that the sealant on the 
upstairs windowsill could be displaced with pressure and thought Storm Arwen could 
have created enough force to cause water to penetrate;
her friend thought the cracks in the mortar were not on a scale to account for the 
ingress of water; and
he now believed it far more likely that the sealant around the window was the root 
cause of the problem.
Mrs H also provided excerpts from various reference documents and links to other reference 
material. These included information on wall ties, roofing tile and slate chatter and cavity 
wall failure.   
I appreciate the time Mrs H has taken to investigate matters further and gather information 
together to support her arguments. Much of that information was given to her by her 
engineer friend but I have no further information on their qualifications or expertise in this 
area. And I need to take that into account when Im considering this matter. Mrs Hs friend 
discounted the surveyors assessment and suggested two alternative ways that water might 
have penetrated her home. I note however that, on reflection, he didnt think it was very likely 
the damage was caused by the roof slates lifting up in the wind, particularly as the roof had 
recently been replaced and a semi permeable membrane was visible from inside.
As Ive said, Mrs Hs friend thought it far more likely the root cause of the problem was the 
sealant around the upstairs window frame. While the sealant looked to be firmly attached to 
the window frames, Mrs H noted that it could be displaced with pressure from a thin wooden 
wedge with what is taken to be the equivalent force as would occur with the extreme wind 
pressures associated with Storm Arwen for many hours. So, to create a gap wide enough to 
allow rainwater to penetrate. 
Ive reviewed all the evidence and, on balance, Im more persuaded by the report prepared 
by RSAs surveyor. To my mind, it would be difficult to say how much pressure would need 
to be exerted by storm force winds to provide an equivalent force to someone displacing the 
sealant with a wooden wedge. I accept this might be possible, but I hope Mrs H will 
understand that without any more definitive evidence, there has to be some doubt about that 
process. 
In contrast Im satisfied the surveyors inspection was adequate. The report was prepared by 
a professional surveyor specifically tasked with carrying out a survey to assess the damage 
caused to Mrs Hs home. Theyve taken a number of photographs of the relevant areas of 
the external wall and of the internal spaces damaged by water - and I think these help to 
support their findings. For example, the photographs support their view that there were 
cracks in the mortar on the brickwork at the front of the property. And the photographs help 
to show why they thought the mortar instalments hadnt been pointed up correctly. 
I recognise Mrs H doesnt think the surveyors assessment was plausible. She said the 
cracks were less than 25mm deep and less than 1mm wide and were not at a scale that 
could account for the ingress of water she experienced. I note from the research paper 
Mrs H refers to that cracks up to 1mm wide are unlikely to be clear conduits for moisture and 
multiple cracks of this width would be needed to lead to significant water ingress. But it notes 
that this could occur in practice and should be considered as a contributory factor to water 
ingress. So, I dont think this is conclusive and shows that small cracks will allow water to 
penetrate, if only in small amounts. And I think that supports RSAs contention that the 
damage is more likely to have been caused by a gradual process, rather than by a one-off 
storm event.  
As Ive said, the storm conditions Mrs H experienced in November 2021 was recorded as a dry storm. There was rainfall but not significant rainfall and I think that too supports RSAs 
viewpoint that the water is more likely to have penetrated Mrs Hs home over a period of 
time. So, taken together, I think it was fair for RSA to say the damage was more likely to 
have been caused by the poor condition of the pointing on the front wall of her property, 
rather than by storm conditions. 
Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover her for wear and rear, or anything which happens gradually. I 
note too that it doesnt cover her for any damage caused by faulty design, workmanship or 
materials. And, with all of this in mind, Im unable to answer yes to storm issue three. So, I 
think it was reasonable for RSA to decline Mrs Hs claim for storm damage. 
Accidental damage cover
Ive also considered whether there are any other parts of Mrs Hs policy that might provide 
cover for the damage to her home. But I dont think there is. Her policy does cover her for 
accidental damage, which it defines as sudden, unexpected and visible damage which has 
not been caused on purpose. But the policy also says the accidental damage cover 
excludes damage which is specifically excluded by any cover listed elsewhere in the 
Buildings option. This means that any exclusion found in other sections of their policy will 
also apply to the accidental damage section. So, the general exclusion of anything which 
happens gradually, including deterioration or wear and tear, is also excluded under the 
accidental damage section. 
Other issues
Mrs H says shes also complaining about a number of administrative failures by RSA in 
handling her complaint. She says it failed to reply to her first email when she complained 
about the decision to decline her claim. And then delayed in providing its final response. She 
was also unhappy that RSA had said there was no evidence of a storm on the claim date. 
These dont appear to be issues she raised with RSA and werent addressed in its final 
response. And, in any event, complaints handling isnt an activity within this services remit 
so, unfortunately, Im not able to consider these matters.
Summary
I recognise Mrs Hs strength of feeling but, in light of the above, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask RSA to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman