DRN-2080447
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) handled a 
return premium on his account. Hes also unhappy with the outstanding balance they say he 
owes when he cancelled the policy.
What happened
Mr R took out a car insurance policy with Brightside in September 2019. He paid for the 
policy with a deposit took out a finance agreement for the remainder. The finance was to be 
repaid by monthly direct debit payments.
At the end of October 2019, he contacted Brightside as hed changed his car. This reduced 
his annual premium by just over £270 once theyd deducted the administration fee for 
changing his policy. Brightside used this refund to reduce the overall amount Mr R owed 
under the finance agreement which reduced his monthly direct debit payments. However, 
they emailed Mr R  incorrectly  to say the refund would be returned to him directly.
Mr R next contacted Brightside in February 2020 to cancel his policy. As that months direct 
debit payment was being processed, the call handler couldnt confirm the balance. 
By early March, Brightside told Mr R there was an outstanding balance, around £125, and, if 
he didnt make payment in seven days, the matter may be passed to a debt collection 
agency (DCA). Mr R was sent emails and texts asking him to pay the balance. In April, he 
was told the matter was going to be passed to a DCA as the balance was still outstanding.
Mr R complained to Brightside. He said they owed him money after the change of vehicle 
made in October and this should be used for the balance with a further refund due to him.
Brightside said the outstanding balance is owed for the time Mr R had on cover and the fees 
and charges from when he changed and then cancelled the policy, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions he agreed to at the outset. They explained the return premium was 
used to reduce the overall amount he owed under the finance agreement and so they didnt 
uphold this part of his complaint. It also said the finance provider wouldve sent him an 
updated agreement to reflect the reduced balance and his monthly direct debit payments 
reduced as a result. However, they accept he was given incorrect information the refund 
would be paid to him - this is for customers who have paid their policy in full at the outset, 
not those who have paid using a finance agreement. To recognise this, they reduced the 
cancellation fee from £60 to £30. The amount Mr R needed to pay on his account was 
therefore reduced to just over £95. 
Mr R came to our service. He says he knows the bank he works for would of honoured that 
refund email, even if it was sent by mistake. Therefore I fully expect the £279 to be refunded 
+ additional compensation for Brightside instructing debt collectors.
Our investigator didnt agree Brightside had done anything wrong when they used the return 
premium to reduce the amount Mr R owed under the finance agreement. He noted the 
reduced cancellation charge for the wrong information given to Mr R. Overall, he thought 
Brightside had acted fairly and reasonably in this matter and in line with the terms and 
conditions Mr R agreed to. So, he didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr R disagrees. He says, 
in contract law, we refer to whats in writing. It was written to me that £279 
would be refunded to my debit card, not reduce the finance agreement. I do not 
accept this was a mistake, as it was an automated process. In addition, I would need 
to have kept the policy until completion in October 2020, to have received the refund 
back in full.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr R I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. 
So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr R took out a finance agreement to pay most of his car insurance. The terms he entered at 
the time confirm, if any amounts are returned by Brightside, they will be used toward settling 
the outstanding finance. Having looked at the evidence sent to me, Im satisfied this is what 
they did. Further, it seems to me this was a fair and reasonable thing for Brightside to do in 
the circumstances  the finance was to help him pay for the overall cost of the policy and the 
overall cost of the policy had reduced.
I note Brightside gave Mr R the incorrect information when they told him hed have the 
money returned to him in 2019 but I havent seen any evidence Mr R has suffered any 
detriment as a result of this and he didnt contact Brightside again until he wanted to cancel 
his policy in February 2020. Even so, if the return premium had been sent to him direct, the 
amount he now owes Brightside would be considerably higher. 
Brightside has reduced the cancellation charge by half to acknowledge the incorrect 
information they gave to Mr R and I consider this to be a fair and reasonable way to resolve 
this part of Mr Rs complaint. 
I acknowledge Mr R thinks the return premium should be used to reduce the balance he now 
owes but this would mean he benefits from the return premium twice. This is because it has 
already been used to reduce the overall amount owed by him under the finance agreement. 
This wouldnt be a fair or reasonable outcome here.
It follows I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
It seems likely to me Brightside will now seek to recover the debt due to them and I 
recommend Mr R contacts them to make payment of the outstanding balance to limit any 
impact on his credit record.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman