DRN-3854012
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Heron House Financial Management Limited 
(Heron House) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British 
Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Our investigator thought that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld and recommended Heron 
House pay Mr W compensation. Heron House disagreed with the investigators opinion, so 
the complaint was then passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision saying that, while I was likely to reach the same overall 
conclusion as the investigator and uphold the complaint, I wanted to expand on my 
reasoning. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are 
included below in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Ws employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of the DB 
scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in the BSPS which 
would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline 
to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr W was concerned about what this meant for the security of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. 
Mr W enquired at two other businesses before being referred to Heron House by a colleague. Mr W 
met with Heron House in December 2017 and it completed a financial planning questionnaire with him 
to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. Heron House also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately adventurous.
On 5 January 2018 Heron House advised Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension 
arrangement and invest the proceeds in a portfolio of investment funds, which Heron House deemed 
matched Mr Ws attitude to risk.
In summary, the suitability report said the key reasons for this recommendation were to provide Mr W 
with flexibility and control allowing him to stagger his withdrawals in line with his expenditure needs, 
provide the ability for Mr W to retire early, and provide financial security for his family by allowing him 
to use his pension as a family asset.
Mr W accepted the recommendation and around £195,000 was subsequently transferred to
Mr Ws new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr W complained to Heron House about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr W
said hed started to see more negative press about transfers out of the BSPS, which prompted him to 
have concerns about the advice he received.
Heron House didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It provided a substantive response  but in summary it 
said it was satisfied the advice to transfer to a personal pension arrangement was suitable for Mr W. It 
said Mr W had a good understanding of investment risk and that it was agreed a moderately  
adventurous approach was appropriate. It said the annualised performance of Mr Ws pension has 
exceeded the critical yield, or growth rate required to match Mr Ws DB scheme benefits and it was 
confident in continuing to do so. It said there was a detailed discussion at the advice meetings 
covering Mr Ws objectives and priorities as well as the relevant risk warnings. Overall it said Mr W 
understood the risks involved and that he had other guaranteed income (two other deferred pensions) 
which would provide a foundation level of income in retirement. It said the transfer provided flexibility 
albeit it recognised that Mr Ws workplace Defined Contribution (DC) scheme provided flexibility
too. And it said it believed Mr W had a good balance of DB and DC pensions to meet his objectives.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr W asked this service to consider his complaint. And an investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Heron House to pay compensation. In summary they said a 
transfer wasnt suitable. They said a transfer to a personal pension was unlikely to improve on Mr Ws 
DB scheme benefits given the level of growth required to match them. They also considered Mr Ws 
attitude to risk assessed as moderately adventurous wasnt suitable given his limited investment 
experience  they thought a medium risk or balanced risk assessment was more appropriate.
In addition they said there were no other compelling reasons to justify a transfer out of the DB scheme 
 for example Mr Ws retirement was many years in the future and his plans werent known at this 
time; there was no evidence to indicate why Mr W needed flexibility; death benefits shouldnt have 
been prioritised given the pension was designed to provide a retirement income; and Mr Ws concerns 
about the future of the BSPS should have been allayed by Heron House because the BSPS2 had 
been confirmed.
Heron House disagreed. In doing so, it provided a substantive response, which I have read I
full. But in summary it said:
Mr Ws job and qualifications meant he was someone who was used to making complex 
financial decisions and had a good level of financial understanding and sophistication.
Mr W repeatedly agreed that he wished to take a moderately adventurous or growth focused 
approach to his pension investment. It disagreed with the investigator that Mr W should be a 
balanced investor and said theyd not given any reasons for their finding. They added that an 
investment strategy of around 78% equities would be deemed balanced by other companies 
given the investment timeframe.
Mr W was not following the herd - he had strong views and a high level of understanding of 
the situation with the pension scheme and the financial position of his employer given his role 
within the firm.
Mr W had thought carefully about his retirement plans, including producing a detailed 
expenditure analysis to show his income need in retirement  he showed a greater
understanding of early retirement than most other clients.
Mr W and his wife had the financial capability to save and build retirement funds so that 
retiring at age 60 was realistic. Mr W could afford to give up the guaranteed income provided 
by the DB scheme.
It made it clear that death benefits alone is not a primary reason to transfer  but Mr W was 
keen to ensure his family could benefit from his pension, so it was considered along with his 
other objectives.
Having control over his pension was a well-reasoned objective given the uncertainties and 
concerns about the future of the scheme.Flexibility was important to Mr W including the option for him to retire early. And because Mr 
W and his wifes income shortfall from state pension age onwards was small, it was affordable 
for him to place greater importance on flexibility over guaranteed income.
It disagreed with the investigator that Mr W had a high reliance on his BSPS pension
benefits and said they had exaggerated the importance of them  it would only form
around 20% of his overall retirement assets at retirement.
The BSPS2 was not a confirmed option as the investigator said  it wasnt confirmed
until after the deadline had passed for scheme members to make their decision about
what they wanted to do with their BSPS benefits  so it is unfair to say that Mr W should have 
transferred to it given the uncertainty.
The investigator didnt change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a
final decision.
Heron House submitted further evidence for my consideration. This broadly repeated what it said 
before and Ive set out above. But it said that more weight should be placed on the fact Mr Ws 
employer was in significant financial difficulty and there was a real probability that pension benefits 
would move to the PPF  a situation Mr W understood given his role in the firm. It also said that the 
investigator had failed to consider causation and what Mr W wouldve done had it advised him to stay 
in the scheme. It said it doesnt believe this can be determined from the file documentation and it 
requires a reasonable level of investigation. But it said in its view, given that Mr W was shopping 
around and that hed taken the time to do his own research, hed have transferred in any event. It 
added that it needed an opportunity to consider whether an oral hearing is required.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes 
the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the 
advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Heron Houses actions here.
 
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension 
transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive provisionally decided to uphold the 
complaint. My reasons are set out below.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Heron House should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not currently persuaded it was in his best 
interests.
Financial viability
Heron House produced a transfer value analysis report, as required by the regulator, showing how 
much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as 
his DB scheme  referred to as the critical yield. And it based this on Mr Ws benefits available under 
the BSPS2. Despite the fact the advice was provided after the deadline I referred to above by which 
Mr W had to make a choice about whether he wanted to opt in to the new BSPS2 or remain in the 
scheme and move with it to the PPF, because Mr W had taken the decision to opt into the BSPS2 as 
a precautionary measure, Im satisfied it was appropriate for Heron House to base the report using the 
BSPS2 scheme benefits.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how 
businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these 
rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr W was 38 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork said his intention was to retire at 60. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits at age 60 in the BSPS2 was 6.52% if he took a full 
pension. I can see the investigator referred to this as being 5.93% - but this was based on a  
retirement age of 65. Because the advice was predicated on Mr W wanting to retire at 60, I think it is 
the critical yield at age 60 which is relevant here.
Heron House didnt provide a critical yield figure assuming Mr W took his tax-free cash and a reduced 
pension. But it did provide critical yields to match Mr Ws benefits available through the PPF at age 
60, which were 6.21% assuming Mr W took a full pension and 5.94% if he took a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was published by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.5% per year for 
21 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr W's 
moderately adventurous attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be 
little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, 
at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Here, assuming Mr W took his full pension available to him through the BSPS2 at 60, which as I will 
discuss later on I think is how Mr W could likely help meet his overall retirement income objective, the 
critical yield was 6.52%. This figure was 2% higher than the discount rate and it was just over the mid-
point between the regulators middle and upper projection rate. 
I can see that Heron House classified Mr W as a moderately adventurous risk investor, which it says 
was the approach Mr W repeated he wanted to take. Mr W says this is the level of risk which Heron 
House deemed the investment strategy needed to take  it wasnt an assessment of his attitude to 
risk. The investigator considered Mr Ws limited investment experience better suited a balanced or 
medium risk approach.
Ive thought carefully about this point. On the one hand, Im not persuaded as Heron House argues 
that just because Mr W had invested some money in shares in the past, invested into an Individual 
Savings Account for his child and was managing his workplace DC pension (it was invested in the 
default lifestyle fund) that this means Mr W was an experienced investor. But on the other hand he wasnt completely inexperienced. And Im conscious that Mr Ws occupation and qualifications ought 
to have meant he was familiar with both the concept and the different categorisations of investment 
risk. So if Mr W didnt see himself as moderately adventurous as defined, I wouldve expected him to 
have challenged this at the time.
So taking all of this into account, I currently think Mr Ws assessed attitude to risk of moderately 
adventurous as defined wasnt unreasonable and was broadly in line with the level of risk I think Mr W 
was prepared to take. In doing so Im mindful that Mr W was relatively young and the term to 
retirement was long.
But despite that, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits provided by the BSPS2 was limited 
if Mr W transferred out of the scheme and invested in line with this attitude to risk. Achieving a growth 
rate of 6.52% was the rate to effectively stand still. To improve on the benefits available to Mr W in the 
BSPS2 required growth in excess of this every year until retirement - in my view it required returns 
closer to or at the level of the upper projection rate.
I think its likely, at best, Mr W would end up receiving benefits of broadly the same overall value as a 
result of investing in line with his stated attitude to risk. In my view, to have come close to achieving 
the level of growth required to exceed the benefits provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a 
personal pension, would have required Mr W to take a higher level of investment risk than I think he 
indicated he was prepared to take. There of course still remained the real risk that Mr W might end up 
with benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS2.
And given the critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits through the PPF, I dont think
the situation was any different here - I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits
provided by the PPF was limited if Mr W transferred out of the BSPS.
I can see that Heron House has said it believes the critical yield is achievable here and has provided 
an annualised performance figure for Mr Ws pension plan showing this to be the case. But I dont 
think the adviser held this view at the time. Looking at the suitability report it records that while the 
adviser thought the growth rates were at a reasonable level, they certainly could not be guaranteed 
on an ongoing basis over the long-term. So it strikes me that the adviser wasnt persuaded that the 
transfer was financially viable at the time.
But even if I accept that the transfer had the potential to be financially viable, crucially and as I will 
explain in more detail below, I think its likely Mr Ws income needs in retirement could be reasonably 
met by the guaranteed income from his DB scheme together with the income from his other existing 
pension provision. I appreciate the suitability report set out how Mr W could take a sustained level of 
income at around £200 more a year through the drawdown option than the BSPS2 would provide, 
assuming a growth rate of 5%. But I dont think Mr W needed to take on any investment risk with his 
BSPS scheme benefits.
Overall, Im not currently persuaded that even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Ws benefits 
were reduced, he was likely to be able to improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal 
pension. In my view, by transferring his pension it was likely hed end up, at best, with retirement 
benefits of broadly the same as those available to him from the DB scheme at age 60. So based on 
this alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ws best interests.
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Heron 
House has argued in this case. 
There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing broadly the 
same benefits. Ive considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility, control and income needs
One of the key reasons Heron House recommended the transfer for was flexibility and control it 
offered Mr W. The suitability report referred to Mr Ws desire to retire early and to provide him with the 
ability to stagger his pension withdrawals in line with his personal expenditure in retirement.But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr W needed to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
While Mr W had thought about what his expenditure might be in retirement and so what income he 
would need, Im not persuaded that with over 20 years to go before he wanted to think about 
accessing his pension, that his plans could reasonably be described as set in stone. I think it was too 
soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme  I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr W to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he couldnt 
reasonably know what his needs in retirement would be
.
Mr W wanted the ability to retire early. But he already had this option available to him  he didnt have 
to transfer out to achieve this. Of course if Mr Ws needs developed later on and he had reason to 
transfer, I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said 
was still many years away. And because Mr W had opted to join the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the 
ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was required.
In terms of the ability for Mr W to stagger his pension withdrawals, Ive not seen anything to persuade 
me that Mr W had a need for variable income at different stages of retirement. The retirement 
expenditure analysis carried out at the time of the advice didnt reflect changing requirements. And I 
havent seen anything to indicate that Mr W needed access to his tax- free cash and defer taking his 
income for example. 
While I can see that Mr W had a mortgage and I understand the term extended beyond Mr Ws 
intended retirement age of 60 by a couple of years, the mortgage was on a repayment basis. So by 
age 60 the outstanding balance would likely be small. And given the level of Mr Ws household  
income  Mr Ws wife had returned to work  I think they had the capacity to repay their mortgage 
balance, if they chose to, before Mr W reached 60. Mr W also had the option of accessing tax-free 
cash from one of his pensions at age 60 to clear any outstanding balance.
Turning to Mr Ws income need  as I said above I think Mr W couldve likely achieved his overall 
retirement income objective by staying in the DB scheme. If Mr W took benefits from the BSPS2 at 60, 
he would be entitled to an annual income of around £11,000 if he took a full pension. On its own this 
wouldnt have met Mr Ws indicated household expenditure requirement at retirement of around 
£23,800  the effects of inflation also need to be taken into account here. But in my view, this 
wouldve provided a strong foundation for Mr Ws retirement, and importantly it was guaranteed. Mr W 
also had two other deferred pensions  a DB scheme that it was recorded would provide around 
£2,600 at age 65 and another DC pension that had a value of around £15,000. 
And it doesnt seem logical to me that Heron House would advise Mr W to give up the scheme 
providing him with the most guaranteed income.
I can see that Heron House said Mr W also asked it about transferring his other DB scheme too  but 
it deemed it wasnt suitable and that this would provide Mr W with a guaranteed foundation income. 
But by keeping both of his DB pensions, Mr W had a larger guaranteed, escalating foundation 
income, which his other provision could supplement.
For example, Mr W was contributing to his current workplace pension  both employer and employee 
contributions totalling 16% of his salary - and he had another 22 or more years of pension 
contributions to add to this part of his retirement provision. 
Given this had the potential to amount to a significant sum  around £200,000 based on his current 
salary and not allowing for any growth - I think this wouldve likely provided the difference Mr W 
needed to meet his overall retirement income need, particularly in the early years until his state
pension became payable. In my view, this is the part of Mr Ws pension provision where I think he 
couldve afforded to take a moderately adventurous investment approach and where I think Heron 
House shouldve focused its investment advice on to help with the growth of this fund.
So importantly, Mr Ws workplace pension wouldve provided him with extra flexibility. He couldve 
taken lump sums as and when required, and adjusted the income he took from it according to his 
needs. So, I think if Mr W retained his DB pension, this together with his other smaller deferred 
schemes combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve given him the flexibility to retire early and meet his income needs. Mr W still of course had his state pension income to add to this when he 
reached 68. And Im mindful too that Mr Ws wife had returned to work from a career break, so she 
had the potential to build up a pension fund to support their income need. She was also entitled to a 
state pension.
I can see that Heron House disagreed with the investigator that Mr W had a high reliance on his 
BSPS pension benefits and said they had exaggerated the importance of them  it would only form 
around 20% of his overall retirement assets at retirement. But at the time it formed a significant 
proportion of Mr Ws retirement income provision. And the suitability report said as much.
While as Ive said, Mr W had the ability to grow his pension provision through continued contributions 
to his workplace DC scheme, as Ive shown above, I still believe his DB scheme formed a significant 
part of his pension income, which was guaranteed and escalated, that he could rely on to meet his 
overall income need.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 60 Mr W 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of around £10,500 a year. This wouldnt have met Mr Ws income 
need but the difference between this and the BSPS2 benefits was not significant enough to change 
the recommendation.
Overall I think Mr W couldve met his retirement income needs by remaining in the DB scheme and 
supplementing his income with his other pensions. And I think this was the case whether the BSPS2 
went ahead as planned or if the scheme moved to the PPF - the income Mr W was entitled to wasnt 
significantly less so this wasnt enough to change the recommendation. I dont think Mr W needed to 
risk his guaranteed benefits to achieve things.
Death benefits
The suitability report recorded that one of Mr Ws priorities was to provide greater financial security for 
his family and that Mr W was keen to ensure that the full value of any remaining pension was 
available to his two children in the event of his death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved 
ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W given the circumstances. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr W about what 
was best for his retirement provisions.
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think the potential for 
different or greater death benefits should have been prioritised over this and Mr Ws security in 
retirement. And I say potential, because the sum left on Mr Ws death was dependent on investment 
returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or investment returns were lower than expected, there may not 
have been a large sum to pass on anyway.
I also think the existing death benefits within the DB scheme were underplayed. The spouses 
pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been useful to his wife if Mr W predeceased her. I 
dont think Heron House made the value of these benefits clear enough to Mr W. 
They were guaranteed and escalated  under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would also be 
calculated as if no tax-free cash had been taken. Its also the case that it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
Also, I think Heron House ought reasonably to have known that Mr W had generous death-in-service 
cover through his employer if he died before retirement. So he already had lump sum death benefits 
available, which he could nominate his wife / children to receive if he hadnt already done so. And it 
also knew that Mr W was paying into the current DC scheme and he wouldve been able to nominate 
his wife and/or children as beneficiaries of this plan too  again if he hadnt already done so.I can see that the suitability report said Mr Ws objective could potentially be achieved using life cover 
in the short term. It said: We would not recommend transferring a safeguarded benefit scheme for 
potential more advantageous death benefits as it should be possible to overcome this concern with 
appropriate life cover to ensure your family is protected upon your death. But it didnt discuss this any 
further and in fact it departed from this view  but its not clear to me why it did so. I think if Mr W 
genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and/or children over and above that which was 
already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund 
remained on his death, I think Heron House shouldve instead explored additional life insurance 
properly. In my view the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr W how much he would ideally like 
to leave to his family, after taking into account the above existing means. And this couldve been 
explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be affordable to provide given 
Mr Ws age, his recorded good health and the level of his disposable income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont think Heron House did enough 
to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr W to meet this objective.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
While not a key reason for recommending Mr W transfer his pension benefits, the advice paperwork 
makes reference to Mr Ws concerns about his pension scheme. Heron House has said that given Mr 
Ws role within the company, he had very real and well-founded concerns about the viability of the 
BSPS2 meaning his benefits could end up in the PPF.
I have no doubt that Mr W was concerned about his pension at this time  there was lots of negative 
sentiment about the PPF. I think this is likely the reason Mr W sought advice in the first place and its 
possible that Mr W was considering transferring because of these concerns about his employer and 
what might happen. But I think this risk was already understood and accepted by Mr W, as hed 
already chosen to opt in to the BSPS2, knowing he would move to the PPF if the new scheme didnt 
go ahead.
In any event, it was Heron Houses duty to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was 
in his best interests. I accept, as Heron House has pointed out on several occasions, that the new 
BSPS2 scheme wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at the time of the advice. But at the time, the available 
information from the scheme trustees indicated that it would likely go ahead. And I think this is what 
Heron House shouldve been clear with Mr W to help alleviate his concerns.
Im mindful, as Heron House says, that Mr Ws role and qualifications likely meant that he had a good 
grasp of the financial situation. But Mr W wasnt a scheme trustee, so Im not persuaded he had any 
greater insight into things than any other scheme member. I also think this was an opportunity for 
Heron House to remind Mr W that his employer and the BSPS2 trustees were not entirely one and the 
same. And the scheme trustees had a duty to act in the best interests of its members. Mr W was still 
working for the same employer and he hadnt indicated he intended to find alternative employment  
so it doesnt appear Mr Ws concerns extended to his employer specifically and its attachment to the 
pension scheme.
In terms of Mr Ws specific concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF, despite the 10% reduction 
in starting benefits and the fact the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, importantly the 
income was still guaranteed.
And the income available to Mr W through the PPF wouldve still provided a strong foundation towards 
the overall household income he thought he needed at retirement and he was unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. So I think Heron House ought to have specifically reassured Mr W 
that, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to the PPF was not as 
concerning as he thought or was led to believe. Mr W might not have been able to later transfer out of 
the PPF  but for the reasons Ive set out earlier, I dont think Mr W wouldve needed to, to achieve his 
goals.
SummaryI accept that Mr W was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns about his 
employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher or different 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like attractive features to Mr W.
But Heron House wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-
free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. By transferring to a personal 
arrangement Mr W was unlikely to achieve greater overall retirement benefits at his intended 
retirement age of 60. And I dont currently think there were any other particular or compelling reasons 
which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for 
him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think Heron House shouldve advised Mr W that he should not transfer the benefits of his DB 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement and that his decision to opt into BSPS2 as a 
precautionary measure was suitable for him in the circumstances.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against Heron Houses 
advice  something it said the investigator had failed to do. Heron House has also said that this is a 
matter which requires reasonable further investigation and suggests it cant be determined from the 
evidence on file.
But I disagree  I consider there is sufficient evidence on file. I dont consider I need to ask Mr W for 
more evidence whether verbally or in writing. And as I said at the start, where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
So having considered this matter carefully, Im not currently persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Heron Houses advice. I say this because, while I accept Mr W 
was motivated to transfer when he approached Heron House, on balance, I still think Mr W wouldve 
listened to and followed Heron Houses advice if things had happened as they should have and it 
recommended he stay in the scheme. Im also mindful that Mr W had already opted into the BSPS2, 
so its clear to me that he was open to being part of this scheme if hed been advised it was in his best 
interests.
I can see that Mr W had spoken to two other advice firms prior to meeting with Heron House. But I 
dont think this demonstrates anything other than as I said above that Mr W was motivated to transfer 
at the time. It was a work colleague that introduced Mr W to Heron House  so I think its fair to 
assume that he had reason to place trust in Heron House knowing that a colleague had used its 
services.
While Mr W had some investment experience and I accept he wouldve been familiar with investment 
concepts and terminology given his circumstances. But Im not persuaded he could reasonably be 
described as an experienced investor or someone who possessed the necessary skill, knowledge or 
confidence to go against the advice they were given in pension matters . Furthermore Mr Ws pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision at the time. 
So, if Heron House had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve insisted 
on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise hed been referred to and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Heron House had explained to 
Mr W that he could likely meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont currently think Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring 
out of his scheme.In light of the above, I think Heron House should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it is the 
benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. But having considered this carefully, Im not
persuaded this is warranted in this case  Ive not seen enough evidence to indicate that this
matter has had significant emotional or practical impact on Mr W that fairly justifies an
award.
Both Heron House and Mr W received my provisional decision. 
Mr W said that he found Heron Houses comment about him having a greater understanding 
of early retirement misleading because he said Heron House gave him a template to 
complete with estimates as to what he thought hed need in retirement. He also commented 
that at the time of the advice Heron House had not advised him on his other DB schemes 
and failed to evaluate his DC scheme.
Mr W also commented about my intention to not make an award for distress and 
inconvenience  he said that he wanted to reiterate that the process has been and continues 
to be hugely stressful.
Heron House replied and in summary it said:
The ombudsman is imposing the overall view of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
that it cant be right to give up guaranteed income from the BSPS  this is at odds 
with the law and regulatory guidance and contradicts Mr Ws priorities.
It treated Mr W as an individual when it formulated its advice  Mr W chose to risk his 
guaranteed benefits to achieve his objectives for the various reasons that were fully 
explored. It doesnt think it is right for either it or the ombudsman to tell Mr W hes 
wrong.
It appears The Financial Ombudsman Service is taking a different approach to these 
types of cases and upholding the majority of cases when the FCA file reviews 
suggest less than 50% are unsuitable and when the FSCS are not upholding similar 
cases (it enclosed a copy of a decision as evidence.)
It asked me why I intended to uphold the complaint when it had followed the  
necessary regulatory guidance on advising on DB transfers.
It disagreed with my comment in my provisional decision where I said I didnt think 
the adviser was persuaded the transfer was financially viable at the time. It says it 
considers the comment is highly offensive to the adviser  the warning about not 
guaranteeing the return was an FCA required risk warning. It said there is no 
evidence the adviser didnt believe the critical yield was achievable and it asked for 
me to remove the statement from any final decision. 
It considers the statement to be unreasonable and petty given the projected returns 
have been achieved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before and for the same 
reasons.
Ive read carefully and considered what Heron House has said in response to my provisional 
decision. But I dont think it has provided me with anything new and I dont think there is 
much more I can usefully add to what Ive already said in my provisional decision.
For the reasons I explained in detail in my provisional decision, it is my view that in light of 
Mr Ws individual circumstances at the time, it wasnt in his best interests to transfer out of 
the BSPS because it wasnt financially viable and there were no other particular reasons to 
justify a transfer to outweigh this. And as I also explained, Ive reached my decision on what 
I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint taking into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant law and regulators rules, guidance and standards at the 
time of the advice.
As Heron House will already be aware, this decision is only about Mr Ws individual 
complaint based on the specific circumstances of this complaint. Each case is different and 
considered on its own merits. So I dont think it is necessary or appropriate for me to refer to 
or comment on other cases  whether they appear to have similar characteristics and facts 
or otherwise. Notwithstanding this, I can see that the example decision issued by the FSCS 
Heron House has provided, which it says is a similar case to this one, was not upheld 
because it showed there was no loss. It wasnt a decision about the merits of the complaint 
as in this case. So in any event it is not an example of a similar case to Mr Ws.
I can see that Heron House feels strongly about the statement I made in reaching the 
conclusion that I didnt think the adviser was persuaded the transfer was financially viable at 
the time of the advice  it says there is no evidence the adviser didnt believe the critical 
yield was achievable and the warning about not guaranteeing the return was a FCA required 
regulatory warning. But Ive decided to include it in my final decision. On the one hand, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I accept that the financial viability of the transfer was 
not the only consideration in my determination of whether the advice was suitable  I also 
acknowledged that I could accept it had the potential to be viable. So because it isnt crucial 
to the overall outcome of the complaint I could choose to say very little here and move on.
But on the other hand, as I also said in my provisional decision, there would be little point in 
Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme; particularly given Mr Ws objective of 
wanting to achieve capital growth above inflation on his investment. So I think the financial 
viability is still relevant here in considering the overall suitability of the advice given to Mr W. 
And as part of that, I think it is fair to consider what, if anything, the adviser said about this.
Having done so, I still believe that what the adviser recorded in the suitability letter is 
evidence about how they felt about the likelihood of the growth rates being achieved. I think 
the language the adviser used is important here - saying the critical yields were at a 
reasonable level is not, in my view, clear. If the adviser thought they were achievable  and 
Id expect them to give an opinion on this to enable Mr W to make an informed decision 
about things - I think they couldve been clearer in saying so.
Im also not persuaded the advisers reference to the returns not being guaranteed was 
included simply as a standard FCA required risk warning. I think the context is relevant here. 
By saying what they did and the way they said it, in my view is evidence to suggest the 
adviser was not entirely persuaded that the transfer was financially viable at the time. 
Heron House has also said my statement is unnecessary given it says the projected returns 
have been achieved. But my decision is about the events that took place at the time and whether I think the advice was suitable based on the evidence and circumstances at the 
time. Of course if the projected returns have been achieved, then this will be borne out when 
Heron House carries out the loss calculation to determine whether as a result of the 
unsuitable advice Mr W has suffered a loss.
Finally Ive thought carefully - including taking account of Mr Ws most recent comments - 
about whether it is fair to make an award in favour of Mr W for the distress and 
inconvenience the unsuitable advice has caused. But Im still not persuaded that Mr W has 
suffered distress or inconvenience to the extent that it is appropriate or fair for me to make 
an award. 
Overall, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision together with those above, Ive 
decided to uphold this complaint - so Heron House should compensate Mr W for the 
unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr W would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its 
fair that Heron House calculates Mr Ws redress in line with new guidance and rules when 
they come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
Because Mr W had already opted into the BSPS2, if suitable advice had been given I think 
this wouldve supported Mr Ws choice. So Heron House should use the benefits offered by 
BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr W.
Heron House must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as 
soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, in the circumstances I think compensation should be based on a retirement age 
of 65 as per the usual assumptions in the FCA guidance.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Heron 
House has received notification of Mr Ws acceptance of my decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any 
changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Heron House to pay Mr W.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Heron House deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Heron House should give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Heron House
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Heron House Financial Management Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full,as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Heron House Financial Management Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Heron House Financial Management Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Heron House
Financial Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept any
subsequent final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman