DRN-4061385
The complaint
Mrs N complains on behalf of the account holder Mrs H that Lloyds Bank PLC significantly 
delayed important statement requests.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 24 January 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give both parties a further opportunity to submit
evidence.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 21 February 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind; my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mrs N complains on behalf of the account holder Mrs H that Lloyds Bank PLC significantly
delayed important statement requests.
What happened
Mrs H is in a care home and Mrs N has access to her sole account.
Mrs N says that, for important legal reasons, she has been trying to get access to Mrs Hs
statements since 2016. However, these havent been provided by Lloyds and this has
caused significant distress and inconvenience. This includes making difficult logistical
arrangements so Mrs H could sign approval documentation.
Lloyds only commented on statements Mrs N requested in 2022. These were for Mrs Hs
joint account, to which Mrs N doesnt have a Power of Attorney (POA) and access. So,
Lloyds requested Mrs H complete the necessary forms.
Lloyds explain that because of a lack of clarity on which account Mrs N required statements
for, they only requested those for the sole account that Mrs N had access to. So, Lloyds
apologised and paid Mrs N £40 compensation.
Mrs N is now in possession of the statements she requires, however because of her
experience in obtaining these statements, she is insulted by Lloyds compensation. So, she
complained to our service and has requested compensation of £5000.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ns complaint and asked Lloyds to increase the amount of
compensation to £100.
As Mrs N remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view.
I appreciate Mrs N feels strongly that Lloyds compensation offer is inadequate. This is
because she says shes been waiting a considerable time to get the statements and this
delay, together with her efforts in getting forms signed by Mrs H, has caused distress and
inconvenience.
Regarding the length of time Mrs N has been waiting, based on her comments this appears
to be somewhere between two and seven years. However, Lloyds records only show a
request being made in 2022. Also, Lloyds records show they only required Mrs H to sign
forms in 2022 when they realised her statement request was from Mrs Hs joint account for
which she didnt have approval or access.
Although I think it likely that Mrs N did make previous efforts to obtain the statements she
required, there is a lack of supporting evidence on file. Also, there appears to have been
confusion as to which account the requested statements applied. And, considering the
timeframe, importance of the statements and Mrs Ns mention of her lawyer I wouldve
expected to have seen a formal escalation in the proceeding years.
I recognise Mrs Ns frustration here and, whilst I understand her request for branch staff
including managers to be asked to give evidence, our service doesnt operate in the same
way as a court, and we dont have powers to call witnesses. Instead, we have a mandate to
resolve complaints in an informal way and ask both parties to a complaint to submit their
evidence and arguments to enable a decision based on the submissions presented.
There is however evidence of a delay in receiving the required statements in 2022. I can see
this is because it wasnt made clear to Mrs N that the request would only apply to the sole
account. As the request applied to the joint account Lloyds apologised and offered
compensation.
Whilst, in normal circumstances I think Lloyds £40 offer wouldve been reasonable, due to a
combination of Mrs Ns health condition, the distressing circumstances and the delay adding
to the POA timeframe, I think £100 is a fairer amount of compensation. And Im pleased to
see that Lloyds have since agreed to pay this amount.
So, having considered all the information from both sides here, based on the current
evidence on file, Im upholding this complaint and I think £100 compensation should be
awarded.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require Lloyds Bank PLC:
 To pay Mrs H £100 compensation less any amounts already paid.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 21 February
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.
I received responses from both parties.
Lloyds said they had nothing further to add.
After requesting additional time Mrs N submitted various notes and letters.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reviewed the notes and letters received following my provisional decision. However, I 
couldnt see that they evidenced escalation in the years which proceeded 2022 or provided 
any information to change my provisional decision.
So, I cant see any reason to depart from my provisional decision which I adopt in full as part 
of this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC:
 To pay Mrs H £100 compensation less any amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman