DRN-1105210
The complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") has unfairly declined a claim she made 
under her travel insurance policy included as part of a packaged bank account.
What happened
Mrs B and her family were travelling from Asia to the UK, with a connecting flight elsewhere. 
Unfortunately she missed her connecting flight as she was given incorrect information by the 
airport staff related to the gate number. Mrs B also said immigration control was slow, there 
were no announcements at the airport, and it was difficult to get to the gate on time because 
she was travelling with disabled family members and a child.
As a result Mrs B had to pay for the costs of a later flight. Mrs B claimed under her travel 
insurance policy, but UKI declined it, saying it didn't provide cover where a policyholder 
hadn't left enough time to arrive at their departure point. Mrs B said this was unfair and her 
circumstances weren't properly considered.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She said the circumstances Mrs B 
described werent covered by the policy, so she didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed 
so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman's final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
Mrs B's insurance policy covers her for a number of insured events. This includes 
cancellation, travel delays, missed departures and others. The policy goes on to outline the 
specific events that are covered, and some specific events that are excluded.
So I've looked at Mrs B's policy. Under the heading "Missed Departures" it says: 
"We will pay up to £1,000 per insured person for additional accommodation, travel 
expenses, meals and refreshments, if you fail to arrive at your departure point in time to 
board your booked transport and this is because of:
An accident or breakdown involving the vehicle in which you are travelling to your 
point of departure.
A delay involving the vehicle in which you are travelling where you missed your 
departure because of heavy traffic or road closures that were sufficiently severe to 
warrant reporting on a recognised motoring association website or on television, 
news bulletins or in the press.
The scheduled public transport taking you to your departure point not running to 
timetable."The circumstances Mrs B described which led to her missing her flight arent covered by any 
of the specified events detailed above. So the loss isnt covered under this part of the policy.
So Ive then gone on to consider if its covered elsewhere. Theres a separate section, 
entitled "Missed Connections" which says:
"If you are delayed after you have checked in, meaning that you miss your connecting 
transport and an alternative is not offered by the transport provider within four hours, we will 
pay up to £1,000 per insured person for additional accommodation, travel expenses, meals 
and refreshments."
And in this case Mrs Bs flight wasnt delayed, and instead she wasnt able to check in for 
her scheduled flight because she arrived late. And as she hadnt checked in, the loss isnt 
covered by this part of the policy either.  
Based on her description, it's clear to me that Mrs B's reasons for missing the flight do not 
fall under any of the above scenarios. 
So I'm satisfied UKI fairly declined this claim as the event itself didn't fall under the policy.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman