DRN-2414652
The complaint
Mr B complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly 
when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr B took out six loans with Lending Stream. Heres a table showing more information:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount   Highest Monthly 
Repayment
1 06/03/2016 08/03/2016 6 £200.00 £96.00
2 12/03/2016 30/03/2016 6 £200.00 £86.40
3 26/04/2016 27/05/2016 6 £200.00 £91.20
4 15/05/2016 28/07/2016 6 £540.00 £237.60
5 15/06/2016 28/07/2016 6 £200.00 £86.40
6 13/11/2016 29/11/2016 6 £750.00 £330.00
Mr B said that Lending Stream shouldnt have given him loan 1 as his credit history was very 
poor and he was in debt. And he said that loans 2 - 6 were repetitive lending and shouldnt 
have been allowed. Mr B told us that he opened the loans under two separate accounts with 
Lending Stream and so had multiple loans open as a result and this led to him falling behind 
with his payments and having to set up payment plans. Mr B told us that during this period 
he was simply borrowing to pay his previous loans. 
When he complained to Lending Stream it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly and 
the loans Lending Stream issued were fair and affordable based on the information Mr B 
provided at the time and the checks that were carried out. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and so his complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes all the supporting information Mr B has sent us.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr B with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
Lending Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream says that, as well as relying on information Mr B provided about his monthly 
income and expenditure, it also looked at details held by credit reference agencies before it 
agreed to lend to Mr B. And it believed that the information it had recorded for Mr B showed 
the loans shouldve been affordable for him.
Mr B feels strongly that his credit history, which included defaults on his accounts and 
missed payments on his credit card, shouldve made Lending Stream realise he couldnt 
afford further loans. And he believes that if Lending Stream had asked to see his bank 
statements this could have prevented unaffordable loans being given to him. 
Keeping in mind everything that Mr B and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on 
the information Mr B provided. This suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr B didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems.
Ive kept in mind what Mr B has said about his credit history. It looks like Lending Stream 
had recorded information that showed he had 5 defaults and missed payments on his 
accounts. 
But I dont think this alone was enough to make Lending Stream think that Mr B wouldnt be 
able sustainably to repay this loan. Adverse credit information and having a poor credit rating 
doesnt automatically mean that a responsible lender shouldn't lend. 
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr B provided or the information 
Lending Stream had, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve enquired further into 
Mr Bs financial circumstances  or that it wouldve made any difference to its lending 
decision if it had. So I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
A couple of days later Mr B repaid loan 1 early and he took out the second loan around 4 
days after this  when he borrowed the same amount again. 
I dont think there was anything in the information that Lending Stream had recorded for 
Mr B, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Lending Stream 
think this loan wasnt affordable for Mr B when he took it out. 
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Mr B paid loan 2 early and it was almost a month later before took out loan 3  again for the 
same amount as his previous 2 loans. 
So I cant fairly say that, at that stage, Mr B had shown any signs that hed found it hard to 
pay for loans 1 and 2. The figures hed declared, and the information Lending Stream had 
collected, seem to support Lending Streams lending decision  loan 3 appears to have been 
affordable for Mr B on the available information. 
So Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 3.
loan 4
Mr B applied for loan 4 when he was still paying loan 3 and he was now asking for a much 
larger loan. So, although it still looked affordable on the figures Lending Stream had 
recorded for Mr B, I think Mr Lender shouldve done more checks in order to be able to make 
an informed lending decision when Mr B applied for loan 4.
But even if Mr Lender had done this, I havent seen anything to make me think that it 
wouldve seen information that wouldve made Mr Lender realise that Mr B was going to find 
it difficult to repay the loan in a sustainable way. Looking at the information Mr B has sent us, 
I cant see that Mr B had other loans outstanding with any other short term lenders in May 
2016 when he took out this loan with Lending Stream. 
And overall, I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 4.
loan 5
A month after taking out loan 4 Mr B applied for loan 5. By now hed repaid loan 3, clearing it 
early, although he was still paying loan 4.
I think Lending Stream should have done more and gone further in its affordability 
assessment before providing this loan. Mr B has sent me some limited information shown on 
some bank statements. But this isnt enough to give me a full picture of his financial situation 
at the time. 
Based on the information I have in this case, I havent seen enough to make me think that if 
Lending Stream had done the further checks it shouldve done that this wouldve led it to 
decline this loan. So this is why Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 5.
loan 6 
Mr B paid loans 4 and 5 the same day and there was a gap of 3 clear months with no 
Lending Stream borrowing before he asked to borrow again from Lending Stream.
I dont think there was anything in his payment history with Lending Stream that wouldve 
alerted Lending Stream to the fact that he was having problems managing his money. 
I've taken into account that this was by far the most substantial loan that Mr B asked Lending 
Stream for. 
But on the information it held for him, it still looked affordable for him.
And although Lending Stream should have done more checks than it did, looking at all the 
information Ive seen about Mr Bs circumstances then, I cant fairly and reasonably say that 
further checks shouldve led Lending Stream to decline his application for loan 6. 
By the time Mr B was asking for his sixth loan I would expect Lending Stream also to be 
thinking carefully about whether there was any clear indication that Mr B was now trapped in 
a cycle of repeat borrowing. 
But I dont think that Mr Bs pattern of lending was sufficiently established by loan 6 to 
indicate to Lending Stream that he probably wasnt using short-term high cost borrowing for 
its intended purpose of helping manage short-term cash flow problems. 
And in the event, this was Mr Bs last Lending Stream loan  which he also paid early just a 
few weeks or so after taking it out. 
So, on balance, I dont feel Ive seen enough to make me think that Lending Stream acted 
unfairly when it provided loan 6 to Mr B.
Im sorry that Mr B found repaying these loans difficult. 
And I accept that in reality Mr Bs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained.
But even if Mr Lender had gathered all the information it shouldve done before agreeing to 
lend and taken steps to verify that information where it ought to have done, I havent seen 
anything to make me think that it wouldve seen information that wouldve made Mr Lender 
realise that Mr B was going to find it difficult to repay loans in a sustainable way or that it was 
unfair to continue lending to him. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Mr B has said, including his 
responses to our adjudicators view. 
Our adjudicator has answered the points hes mentioned and I dont feel theres anything I 
can usefully add to whats been said. But I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done 
helps explain why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman