DRN-3673862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim they made on 
a home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs D are joint policyholders. The majority of the contact with their insurers and our 
service has been from Mr D. Where I refer to Mr D in this decision, this should be taken to 
include Mrs D.
Ageas appointed representatives to assess cover for the claim on its behalf. Where I refer in 
this decision to Ageas, this includes these agents and representatives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D insure their property with Ageas. Following a period of bad weather, they 
made a claim on the policy for damage at the property. 
Ageas attended the property in order to assess the claim. After this it declined cover for the 
claim, as it considered that the damage had been caused by wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept this and complained to Ageas. When it rejected their complaint, 
they referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. 
Mr D disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has sent a response to our investigator after she gave her view on the complaint 
covering a number of points. Hes made similar points in correspondence with Ageas. I wont 
comment on all of these but have considered all the points raised by Mr D in making my 
decision. My decision is concerned with whether Ageas acted reasonably when it declined 
cover for Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
Mr and Mrs Ds claim was considered under the storm damage section of their policy. The 
terms and conditions of the policy say, with regards to the storm cover Damage caused by 
wear, tear or deterioration isnt covered.
Theres also a general exclusion listed in the terms and conditions which says you are not 
covered for any loss or damage resulting from wear, tear and depreciation.
There are three separate elements of damage which Mr and Mrs D claimed for. The largest 
element is that a canopy collapsed. Mr D told Ageas that when it collapsed, it hit a pizza 
oven, causing the oven to crack. He also said parts of the roof of the canopy detached, 
hitting a garage and dislodging render.
Our general approach to complaints about storm damage claims is to consider three 
questions:
1) Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage occurred?
2) Is the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
3) Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
We look at each of these questions in turn. If the answer is yes to all three, then wed 
generally expect an insurer to settle the claim. If the answer is no to any of them, then wed 
usually say that an insurer can fairly decline cover.
The first two questions dont seem to be disputed. Ageas accepts that winds in the area of 
Mr Ds home reached storm levels, and that the collapse of the canopy (and the additional 
damage then caused by that collapse) would be consistent with typical storm damage.
The question that needs to be addressed, and which is the subject of the complaint, is 
whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Mr D is certain this is the 
case, saying the canopy was well maintained, built to a proper standard and had no issues 
prior to the storm. Ageas view, which was supported by our investigator, is that there were 
signs of wear and tear to the canopy structure and the storm highlighted these, leading to its 
collapse.
Ageas representative attended Mr and Mrs Ds property a few days after the storm. Their 
report reflects that in the interim period, Mr D had cleared up, taken down the pizza oven 
entirely, taken up an area of patio (which isnt the subject of any part of the claim) and 
arranged for a skip to be delivered, filled with some of the debris and removed. Mr D refers 
to his belief that Ageas had said all of the debris had been removed by the time of the 
inspection, which wasnt the case. I cant see this is what Ageas said  it commented that 
debris had been cleared up from where it ended up after the storm, and some had been 
removed in the skip. 
There remained some elements of the canopy at Mr and Mrs Ds property which were seen, 
inspected and photographed by Ageas representative. On reviewing the photographs taken 
at the time, photographs taken by Mr D following the storm, and the representatives 
findings, Ageas concluded the collapse of the canopy should be attributed to wear and tear. 
It said this because it said the photographs showed evidence of timbers which were rotten, 
and the general condition of the canopy was poor. It also said the render which had been 
dislodged from the garage showed evidence of peeling and had failed because of 
deterioration. It concluded there was no evidence of the damage to the pizza oven.
Mr Ds sent us photos showing the canopy after it collapsed, and cracking to the pizza oven. 
I dont think Ageas position regarding the lack of evidence of damage to the pizza oven is 
relevant to my consideration here  Mr D says the damage was caused by the collapsing 
canopy. So if the main cause of the canopy is, in my view, wear and tear or deterioration, 
then the proximate cause of the damage to the pizza oven is similarly not covered by the 
policy.
Other than photos, Mr D hasnt provided any evidence to refute Ageas view that the main 
cause of the canopys collapse was wear and tear or deterioration. Ageas has pointed to 
specific evidence of wear and tear to the timber structure of the canopy, saying there were 
signs of rotting. I cant say that the photos provided by Mr D, in the absence of any other 
evidence other than his own opinion, are enough to persuade me that this isnt the case.
On balance, I think it was fair for Ageas to conclude, based on the information available to it, 
that the collapse of the canopy during the storm was, more than likely, mainly caused by 
wear and tear and deterioration of the structure. As thats the case, it could reasonably 
conclude that the policy exclusion for such damage applied.With respect to the damage to the render on the garage, Im also satisfied that Ageas could 
rely on the wear and tear policy exclusion. Ageas refers to specific evidence of deterioration 
in the render when it inspected at the property. I know Mr D says the render was dislodged 
by a piece of the canopy roof following its collapse, but hasnt provided any evidence of this. 
Even if the render was dislodged by a piece of the canopy roof, Id still say it was reasonable 
for Ageas to rely on the wear and tear exclusion and decline cover for that damage. This is 
because Ive already concluded wear and tear was more likely than not the main cause of 
the collapse, so any damage which results from that collapse would also be mainly caused 
by wear and tear, cover for which is specifically excluded from cover.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. I dont require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman