DRN-4291252
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds (DAS)
handling of a claim made under their landlord home emergency cover.
Where Ive referred to DAS below, this also includes any actions or communications from the
agent handling the claim on DASs behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K own a property which is let out to tenants. They also have a home emergency
policy underwritten by DAS.
There was a problem with the boiler at the tenanted property which was causing an
intermittent issue with the hot water. So, DAS were contacted for assistance on
22 December 2022.
An engineer from DAS attended on 27 December 2022 which was the earliest available
appointment. Parts were ordered, but they didnt return until 10 January 2023 to carry out
repairs, which they say resolved the issue.
In February 2023 Mr and Mrs K contacted DAS and questioned why DAS hadnt fixed the
issue at the time and said that their tenant was leaving. DAS responded to say what had
happened during the claim, why there was delay in repairs and said they would raise a
complaint.
Mr and Mrs K chased DAS for a response and ultimately had the boiler replaced in
March 2023.
DAS issued a final response and offered £145 compensation for the delays in the claim. As
Mr and Mrs K wanted DAS to contribute towards the boiler replacement and as they
remained unhappy, they approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. She said that she
thought the £145 compensation for the delays in the claim was reasonable, so she didnt
recommend this be increased. However, she said that DAS should pay Mr and Mrs K £250
towards the boiler replacement, as this is what the policy covered.
DAS said it would only pay the £250 contribution if Mr and Mrs K provided evidence from
their engineer that the boiler was beyond economic repair, and thats why it needed
replacing. They said this was in line with the policy terms for the contribution to be paid.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
As I reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator. So, Im 
issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
initial findings before I reach my final decision.
Firstly, DAS accepts there was a delay from when they were first contacted to the 
first visit, and to the subsequent repair. This is why they have offered £145 
compensation. I need to take into account it was the tenant that was with intermittent 
hot water during this time, so it was the tenant who would have faced the direct 
inconvenience as a result.
DAS accept they took longer than they should have, and they have offered 
Mr and Mrs K £145 compensation. I think that amount is reasonable in the 
circumstances, so Im not minded to increase this amount.
Mr and Mrs Ks policy provides a contribution towards boiler replacement when a 
boiler is deemed beyond economic repair:
beyond economic repair
Where we have accepted a claim under insured event Heating failure that 
relates to a central heating boiler, we will assess if the claim is economical 
before proceeding. This assessment includes estimating the depreciation 
value of your boiler, according to its age. If we assess that the estimated 
contractors labour costs and replacement parts required to permanently 
repair your existing boiler are no longer manufactured and thus not available, 
we will pay the costs, or a contribution towards the costs, of a replacement 
boiler, rather than attempting any repairs. The most we will pay is £250 
(including VAT).
Mr and Mrs K said they want this contribution towards their boiler replacement. And 
our investigator thought that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances so she 
said DAS should pay this.
DAS said they would be willing to offer this in line with terms, subject to Mr and Mrs K
providing evidence from their engineer that their boiler was beyond economic repair.  
Our investigator didnt agree they should provide evidence and maintained that the 
payment should be made.
Im not minded to agree with our investigator that DAS should pay this contribution 
without evidence, and I think DASs position is reasonable. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K allege that DAS failed to complete a repair of the boiler previously. And 
they say as a result of the continued intermittent hot water issue, their tenant moved 
out. However, having looked at all the information provided, and as accepted by 
Mr and Mrs K already, there isnt any firm evidence to support that was the sole 
reason the tenant vacated.
 Instead, Mr and Mrs Ks letting agent let them know the tenant would be vacating, 
and they were told seven days after the initial repair was completed. There wasnt 
any reasons given by the letting agent at that point for the tenant vacating. So, there 
isnt anything showing the repair had failed which resulted in the tenant leaving.
Mr and Mrs K say they then spoke to the tenant three days later and they said there 
was still an intermittent issue, but they also say they are unsure if this is the reason 
the tenant left.
However, DAS werent contacted by Mr and Mrs K at that point to raise an ongoing 
issue with intermittent hot water. So, DAS didnt have the opportunity to visit or 
inspect the issue, to see if it was a failed repair, or another separate issue. Therefore, 
it is unclear whether DAS did actually fail to fix the issue original problem, or if there 
was another unconnected issue.
Mr and Mrs K have said that when it was first fixed it appeared to be resolved. But 
they dont think that checking on that repair visit alone is sufficient. Instead, they say 
the engineer should return after the initial fix to check it is still working satisfactorily. I 
dont agree with what Mr and Mrs K say here. If the issue is resolved when the 
engineer attends, I wouldnt expect the engineer to keep returning to check it is still 
working. Instead, it would be for Mr and Mrs K to let DAS know if it later stopped 
working.
So, if the tenant made Mr and Mrs K aware on 20 January 2023 that there was still 
an ongoing issue, either due to a failed repair or otherwise, they could have raised 
this with DAS at the time, but they didnt.
Mr and Mrs K say they then tested the hot water themselves on 9 February 2023 
when the tenant had vacated and they discovered there was still an issue, and they 
then contacted DAS on 17 February 2023. And after this, as they hadnt heard 
anything, they went ahead with replacing the boiler on 14 March 2023.
From my review of what happened, I think there has been some confusion between 
the two parties. I think Mr and Mrs K were under the impression they were saying 
that they still had ongoing issues with intermittent hot water at their property as DAS 
hadnt fixed it previously and were expecting DAS to reattend. Whereas I think DAS 
were under the impression Mr and Mrs K were complaining about what had 
happened previously, historically and retrospectively, as a complaint.
I say this because Mr and Mrs Ks email to DAS outlined:
On December 22nd 2022, I submitted a home emergency claim under 
(reference) for no hot water in our flat we rent out, I am the landlord.
An engieer (sic) came over on 27th December and advised it was a ignition 
switch, Submitted the report to you and an engieer didnt come back to fix it 
until 10th January.
We didnt speak to our teannts as assumed the job was completed as you 
sent a text to me, but they have advised it wasnt fixed and have handed in 
their notice to leave the flat mid January due to this.
Can you advise why you havent advised us it didnt fix it at the time? i got a 
text to say completed, and i would like to claim for money towards us fitting a 
new boiler as per policy.Please advise the process to complete this as weve have lost our tennats 
due to the timescale of not fixing it which is why i pay for landlord insurance 
with home emergency cover.
The following day, DAS responded to explain why there was a delay in the engineer
attending, obtaining parts and the repair being completed. They also said the £250
contribution was only payable if the boiler was deemed beyond repair, but said it was 
fixed when the engineer attended, so there was no payment to be made. And they 
said theyd logged a complaint with the relevant department.
DAS also separately acknowledged the complaint and outlined their complaint 
procedure. 
I think there has been confusion here between both parties interpretation of things.
I dont think it was clear from Mr and Mrs Ks email that the property didnt actually 
have hot water at that time. And Mr and Mrs K didnt call DAS to report an ongoing 
issue (or failed repair) at any point, either when they say the tenant told them after 
giving notice in January 2023, or at any point after either. And I think DASs email 
response also indicates that they were under the impression it was a complaint about 
what had happened retrospectively, rather than Mr and Mrs K complaining that they 
still had ongoing issues and were expecting DAS to attend. Their internal notes show 
that was their understanding too, as they note the tenant allegedly left because of the 
previous delays, rather than ongoing issues.
The next contact was from Mr and Mrs K on 14 March 2023 when they advised they 
had replaced the boiler and wanted a contribution. And DAS responded to advise of 
the complaint timescales in line with the Financial Conduct Authority complaint 
handling rules for them to provide a response to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
So, I think there has been a breakdown in the communication here. And I dont think 
either DAS or Mr and Mrs K are solely responsible, as it was a misinterpretation of 
things both ways.
But either way, I dont think its been shown that DAS didnt carry out a successful 
repair on the initial visit either. The policy terms say that DAS would contribute £250 
towards boiler replacement when the boiler is deemed beyond economic repair. But 
DAS hasnt had the opportunity to inspect the boiler before it was replaced, to see if 
the repair failed or indeed if it was beyond economic repair. So, at this stage, Im not 
going to direct them to pay the £250 contribution.
However, DAS has said that if Mr and Mrs K can provide evidence that the boiler was
beyond economic repair from their engineer then theyd make that payment. And I 
think that position is reasonable.So, if Mr and Mrs K are able to obtain something from their engineer which 
demonstrates the boiler was beyond economic repair, they should submit this to DAS 
for consideration. Once DAS has done this, and if Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the 
position DAS ultimately reaches, we may be able to consider that as a new separate 
complaint.
But based on what Ive seen so far, Im not minded to direct DAS to do anything 
further at this stage.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
DAS responded and said they were in agreement with the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs K responded and said they dont understand why it took DAS so long to respond 
after they contacted them in February 2023. Mr and Mrs K also said they can obtain 
information from the plumber to provide to DAS, but they say they think they will then be 
asked for further information such as photos, which they dont have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the initial conclusions I reached, and the responses to my 
provisional decision. Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
Whilst I note Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with how long it took DAS to respond after they 
contacted them in February 2023, I talked about this in my provisional decision, and that I 
think there was some confusion between the two parties. Whilst Mr and Mrs K may have 
wanted a response sooner, DAS had outlined the Financial Conduct Authority complaint 
handling timescales for them to provide a response when Mr and Mrs K chased them. And I 
dont think DAS acted unfairly here.
I also acknowledge Mr and Mrs K have said they can obtain a report from their plumber, but 
they think DAS will then ask for further information, such as photos which they dont have. 
As explained in my provisional decision, if Mr and Mrs K obtain something from their plumber 
which demonstrates the boiler was beyond economic repair, they should submit this to DAS. 
At this stage, I cant comment on what additional information (if any) DAS may need beyond 
a report for Mr and Mrs K to substantiate the boiler was BER. But as I outlined, once DAS 
has considered any information Mr and Mrs K provide, and if Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with 
the position DAS ultimately reaches, we may be able to consider that as a new separate 
complaint. 
But at this stage, Im not persuaded that its been evidenced that DAS didnt carry out a 
successful repair on the first visit. And the policy terms say that a £250 contribution would 
only be payable in the event of the boiler being deemed beyond economic repair, but that 
hasnt been demonstrated. So, for the reasons outlined above and in my provisional 
decision, Im not going to direct DAS to pay the £250 contribution at this stage. My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman