DRN-3106007
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) reduced the credit 
limits on his credit card accounts and refused to review that decision when he provided it 
with his bank account statements.
What happened
Mr S says he gave AESEL bank statements for a review it carried out in around April 2020. 
He says in July 2020 he found out that AESEL had reduced the credit limits on both credit 
card accounts to £700. Mr S says he intended to use his accounts for investments and says 
AESEL is responsible for the potential loss in profits. Mr S also says he asked AESEL to 
review that decision and was told he had 14 days to provide it with information, but it later 
told him it would review the documents when received. He says he sent AESEL the 
requested documents in October 2020, but it said it was too late to review. Mr S says he was 
preparing for his wedding in August and September 2020 hence the delay. He would like 
AESEL to accept it made a mistake and pay him compensation.
AESEL says it can reduce a credit limit in line with account terms and conditions. It says it 
told Mr S he had 14 days to provide the required information, but it wasnt provided until 16 
October 2020 and so was reasonably entitled to conclude it was sent too late. AESEL says 
in any event it reviewed the credit limits in November 2020 and decided they would not be 
increased.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought Mr S had been told AESEL would review the requested documents 
when received and so there wasnt an end date provided. The investigator thought Mr S had 
been dealing with his wedding and that he had provided the documents within a reasonable 
time period. The investigator accepted it was industry practice not to warn customers of 
future credit limit reductions but thought AESELs terms and conditions on that point were 
not clear and if they required 30 days notice. The investigator recommended AESEL review 
Mr Ss credit limit increase application and pay him £200 compensation.
AESEL doesnt agree with that view but says it will pay £50 for the information in the letter 
about reviewing the account statements when received.
Mr S would like AESEL to accept it gave him incorrect information in the letter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and I came to the provisional view that I didnt uphold the 
main part of this complaint about the decision to reduce the credit limits. And thought AESEL 
had made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £50 for the lack of clarity about a time 
limit in its letter.
I looked carefully at Mr Ss account terms and conditions which I thought he would have 
agreed to when the two AESEL accounts were opened. Those terms and conditions made 
clear that AESEL can reduce a credit limit at any time by giving notice. I was satisfied that 
AESEL did give Mr S notice of that reduction as he told us he saw the reduction and I saw a 
copy of a letter sent to him. I appreciated that the investigator said the terms and conditions 
were not clear and that other changes require 30 days notice. I said I was satisfied that 
AESEL was entitled to reduce a credit limit at any stage and its up to it to set credit limits 
when exercising its commercial judgement. And I was also satisfied that AESEL did give Mr 
S the required notice and that such changes have to be made responsibly to avoid a 
customer using a balance before a reduction.
So, I was satisfied AESEL acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and didnt 
act unfairly or make a mistake by reducing Mr Ss credit limits. It follows that I couldnt fairly 
hold AESEL responsible for any loss of profits Mr S says took place.
 I said there was no issue here that AESEL told Mr S that he had 14 days to provide 
information that would allow it to review its decision to reduce the credit limits. But AESEL 
also told Mr S that it would review the information when received. So, I accepted AESEL 
ought to have been clearer in its decision and in its letter. But equally I thought Mr S ought 
reasonably to have provided the information sooner than some two and a half months after 
the credit limit was reduced, despite his personal circumstances.
I didnt think AESELs decision not to consider the documents Mr S provided was particularly 
significant in any event, as I could see that it did review the credit limit decision in November 
2020. I was satisfied that as the misleading information in the letter about a timeframe to 
provide the information didnt have any real impact, then AESELs £50 compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint.
Overall my provisional view was that AESEL was entitled to reduce Mr Ss credit limits by 
providing notice which it did. I didnt think it needed to provide 30 days notice for such 
changes or that the terms and conditions are confusing or open to interpretation. I was 
satisfied that AESEL ought to have been clearer in telling Mr S if there was a time limit for 
providing the information, but its compensation offer was fair and reasonable.
AESEL has responded to my decision and says it will pay the £50.
Mr S says he would like his credit limits re-instated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for exactly the same reasons. It follows that I cant fairly order AESEL to re-
instate the credit limits as Mr S would like as I have made clear it was entitled to reduce 
them.  
Putting things right
I am satisfied that AESELs compensation offer of £50 is fair and reasonable
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that American 
Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £50 for that part of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman