DRN-4110026
The complaint
Mr R complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In September 2015 Mr R opened a PayPal credit account with an initial credit limit of £400. 
The credit limit was increased to £650 in November 2017, to £900 in June 2018, to £1400 in 
February 2021 and to £2400 in September 2021.
Mr R complains that the credit limit increases were unaffordable. He says that if PayPal had 
carried out affordability checks, these wouldve shown that he wasnt able to repay the 
borrowing.
PayPal didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out adequate checks before 
approving the credit limit increases.
Mr R remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although he thought that PayPal 
hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, the information  had reasonable 
and proportionate checks been done - wouldve shown was that Mr R was able to afford the 
credit limit increases.
Mr R didnt agree. He said that when the credit limit was increased, he was utilising his 
overdraft facility and that he was borrowing to repay the credit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Rs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that PayPal had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr R could afford to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable  way. These checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. 
Whats considered to be reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors, such 
as the amount of credit, the amount of repayments and the customers individual 
circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
PayPal has said the before increasing the credit limit, it looked at how Mr R had managed 
the account and carried out a credit search. The credit search provided information about Mr 
Rs other credit commitments, the number of active credit accounts he had and whether hed 
defaulted or missed any payment on any other credit accounts.
PayPal has said that it used the information it obtained in 2015 about Mr Rs monthly 
disposable income to assess affordability for the credit limit increases.
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for PayPal to rely on this information. On 
balance, I dont think it was. I say this because by the time the credit limit increases were 
applied, the information about Mr Rs disposable income was around two years out of date 
(and more than this for the later credit limit increases). I think PayPal shouldve obtained up 
to date information about Mr Rs income and expenditure, because its likely that there 
wouldve been some changed during the time which had elapsed.
Because of this, I dont think the checks carried out by PayPal were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown.  Ive 
reviewed Mr Rs account history and Ive looked at the results of relevant credit searches. 
Ive also reviewed the bank statement provided by Mr R.
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think PayPal wouldve had any reason to think 
that the lending wasnt affordable for Mr R. There were no missed payments on the PayPal 
account and no adverse information on Mr Rs credit file. Mr Rs bank statements show that 
he had sufficient monthly disposable income between November 2017 (the date of the first 
credit limit increase) and September 2021 (the date of the last credit limit increase) to afford 
the credit repayments.
On balance, and taking all the information into account, I think that if PayPal had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks, it wouldve determined that the credit was affordable 
for Mr R. Therefore, Im unable to say that PayPal lent irresponsibly when it increased the 
credit limit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman