DRN-3014240
The complaint
Mr M complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) offer of settlement of his mobile 
phone claim under his gadget insurance policy. My references to IPA include its claims 
handler.
What happened
Mr M made a claim for accidental damage to his mobile phone on his gadget insurance. The 
phones screen was replaced and returned to Mr M but the handset was then found to be 
faulty so he sent it back to the claims handler.
The claims handler said the phone was beyond economic repair and Mr M was offered a 
cash settlement of £399.99 to buy a refurbished equivalent handset. It sent Mr M a link to a 
website to show he could buy a refurbished version of his phone for that amount.
Mr M didnt accept the offer as the phone on the website had a 12 months warranty and the 
phone he originally owned had 18 of the original 24 months left on the warranty. He wanted 
a handset that had at least 18 months warranty. He also said he should have a new phone 
as the business that collected his phone must have caused the damage to his repaired 
phone.
The claims handler said the policy terms stated the replacement phone wouldnt be new and 
all replacement handsets would have a 12 months warranty. Mr M complained to us.
When I looked at the file I saw there were two gadget insurance policies with the same brand 
name which had similar, but not the same, policy terms and had different insurers. We 
checked with the claims handler, who is the claims handler under both of the different 
policies. It initially told us the policy held by Mr M was insured by an insurer who isnt IPA.
What I  provisionally decided  and why
Ive made two provisional decisions in this complaint. The first was against an insurer who 
wasnt IPA as the claims handler told us Mr Ms policy was with that insurer. 
In summary, in my first provisional decision I said the policy wording quoted by the claims 
handler in its final response letter to Mr M was in policy version V2.1_10/10/2019. That 
policy was clear that a replacement phone wouldnt be new and the replacement would 
come with a 12 months warranty. I said using that policy term the offer of £399.99 was fair. 
The insurer of that policy was IPA.
However, as the claims handler had told us another insurer was the insurer of Mr Ms policy 
the policy version V2.1_10/10/2019 couldnt be the correct policy as IPA was its insurer.
The policy insured by the other insurer, version V1_100619, was clear that a replacement 
phone wouldnt be new. But that policy didnt say the replacement would come with a full 12 
months warranty. And as that policy term said it would replace the phone with one of 
comparable specification or the equivalent value taking into account the age and condition of 
the original gadget I explained why I thought it fair for the settlement amount to enable Mr M 
to buy a refurnished equivalent phone with 18 months warranty.
I considered how much the other insurer should pay Mr M for a replacement phone. Our 
investigator made enquiries into the cost of a refurbished equivalent phone and hadnt been 
able to find one which had an 18 months warranty, only 12 months. I also set out what our 
investigators research found that meant the original offer of £399.99 looked to be 
reasonable unless Mr M provided evidence to persuade me that a refurbished equivalent 
version of his original phone with 18 months warranty generally costs substantially more 
than £399.99. Unless Mr M provided that evidence I intended to say the other insurer should 
pay Mr M £399.99 plus interest.
I also noted Mr M said the delivery business must have damaged his original phone. I had 
no evidence that happened and said even if that had happened it didnt make any difference 
to what the other insurer needed to do to settle the claim.
Mr M didnt respond to my first provisional decision. The claims handler for the other insurer, 
which is the same claims handler as for IPA, said it had given us the wrong information and 
policy version V2.1_10/10/2019 was the correct policy. Those terms said the insurer was IPA 
and the replacement phone came with a 12 months warranty. I asked the claims handler to 
provide further information about how the wrong information had been given to us, which it 
provided.
I then made a second provisional decision, now about IPA, explaining why I was intending to 
not uphold the complaint. I said:
I can understand Mr M will be frustrated that the claims handler provided wrong information. 
But from the evidence the claims handler has now sent I accept it gave the wrong 
information due to human error. Im now satisfied that policy version V2.1_10/10/2019 is the 
correct one and IPA is the correct insurer for my decision to be about. Mr M took out the 
policy on 19 December 2019 and that ties in with the later dated policy being the one that 
applied to his claim.
This means Mr Ms claim for his phone needed to be assessed under policy version 
V2.1_10/10/2019 terms. That policy says under the claim settlement section:
The intention of this policy is to put you back in the same position as immediately 
prior to the loss or damage. It is not a replacement as new policy. If the gadget 
cannot be replaced with an identical gadget of the same age and condition, we will 
replace it with one of comparable specification or the equivalent value taking into 
account the age and condition of the original gadget. All replacements gadgets come 
with a full 12-month warranty. We cannot guarantee that the replacement gadget will 
be the same colour as the original item.
So the correct policy is clear that a replacement phone wont be new and the replacement 
will come with a 12 months warranty. Which means IPA fairly based its settlement offer for 
the claim on the cost of a refurbished phone with a 12 months warranty.
The evidence is that Mr M could have bought a refurbished version of his phone with 12 
months warranty for £399.99. So IPAs offer to pay Mr M £399.99 was fair. As IPA had 
already made Mr M a fair offer before he complained us it doesnt need to pay interest on 
that amount. If Mr M now wants to accept the £399.99 he should contact the claims handler 
direct.
Ive still no evidence that the delivery business damaged Mr Ms original phone, as he 
suggests. And even if it did that doesnt make any difference to what IPA needed to do to settle the claim.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Neither Mr M or IPA responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr M or IPA have responded to my second provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my second provisional decision I dont uphold 
this complaint. IPAs offer to pay Mr M £399.99 was fair. If Mr M now wants to accept the 
£399.99 he should contact the claims handler direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman