DRN-3498981
Complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) closed her account 
and then registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In June 2021, Miss Ms savings account received a payment of £9,000.00 into it. The funds 
were immediately moved to Miss Ms Virgin Money account where they were then 
transferred to a crypto-currency provider in two separate transactions. Virgin Money was 
subsequently notified that the customer whose account the funds were debited from had 
reported being a victim of fraud. As a result of this notification, Virgin Money blocked the 
funds and reviewed Miss Ms account. Its investigation led it to decide to close the account 
and record a fraud prevention marker.
Miss M was unhappy and complained. Virgin Money looked at Miss Ms complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Miss M remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ms concerns. She didnt think that Virgin Money 
had done anything wrong or treated Miss M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Miss M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Virgin Money has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss M is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Virgin Money must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Miss Ms account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Virgin Money also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss M was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include Miss M allowing someone else to use her account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Ms complaint, I need to decide whether I think Virgin Money had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Ms account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Virgin Money 
did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little 
more detail. 
Miss M initially told Virgin Money that she thought the funds in question were from her uncle 
because she was helping to arrange a funeral for her aunt whod recently passed away. 
When Virgin Money told Miss M that the funds were from someone else, Miss M said that 
she didnt know anything about the payment and that her account must have been hacked in 
the same way that a previous account with the bank had. She also confirmed that she hadnt 
shared her account details with anyone either.
Ive thought about what Miss M has said. But, in truth, given the inconsistent versions of 
events shes provided through the course of the investigation, its difficult to know what 
happened or for me to place much weight on what Miss M now says. However, Im satisfied 
that Miss M wasnt entitled to the funds which entered her account and that they were 
fraudulent. 
Id also add that even allowing for what Miss M now says is the correct version of events, its 
difficult to understand how Miss Ms account would have been hacked when she says none 
of her details were compromised. Furthermore, the funds were credited to Miss Ms savings 
account before being moved to her current account for the transfer to the crypto-currency 
account. And it would be unusual for an opportunistic fraudster to attempt to move the funds 
in this way. Finally, it looks as though Miss Ms usual device was used to access her account 
and make these transfers. And its difficult to see how an opportunistic hacker or fraudster 
would have been able to access Miss Ms device without her cooperation too.
Im afraid the inconsistency in Miss Ms versions of events together with her most recent 
version not being supported by the available evidence, means that I cant reasonably 
conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not she 
was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Virgin Money did have sufficient evidence to 
show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Ms account. And it was also reasonably entitled to 
conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss M was complicit in this. As this is the 
case, I dont think that it was unfair for Virgin Money to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss Ms account. The terms and conditions of Miss Ms account 
permitted Virgin Money to close it without notice where she had acted fraudulently or she 
knowingly used or try to used her account for illegal purposes, or let someone else do so. 
Ive already explained why I think Virgin Money was reasonably entitled to conclude that 
Miss Ms account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act 
unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, 
for much the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Virgin Money to close Miss 
Ms account. So overall I dont think that Virgin Money acted unfairly towards Miss M and Im not 
upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss M  especially 
in light of the ongoing impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But I hope Miss M 
will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have 
been listened to.
Furthermore, Miss M might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman