DRN-2067794
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with 
a store card in November 1997. AXA France IARD, as the insurer, has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the business in the 
rest of this decision.
What happened 
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy added to Mrs S account in 1997, when 
she took out the card in a store. Our adjudicator upheld Mrs S complaint. AXA 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
AXA said, in summary:
Mrs S said in a questionnaire she completed that her condition had never 
affected her ability to work and she had never sought medical advice prior to 
the date of sale;
So, it was unlikely that she would have thought shed have to make a claim 
because of her condition. She wouldve been able to claim for any other 
condition.
Its unlikely that having this condition wouldve affected her decision to purchase 
PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. Im going to uphold Mrs S 
complaint, Ill explain why. 
The policy didnt cover sickness claims for pre-existing medical conditions. At the time of 
sale Mrs S had a congenital health condition. Her condition was maintained by medication. 
She regularly had to visit her GP to ensure her daily medication was set at the correct 
dosage. The severity of her condition varied over time, and whilst she said shed not recently 
had to take time off work around the time she took out the card and PPI, she had had to take 
time off work as a young adult. Given what Mrs S said about her condition, I think there was 
the possibility of her condition fluctuating in severity and impact.
Mrs S condition wouldnt have been covered under the policy and I think this wouldve 
mattered to Mrs S. I think had she been clearly been made aware of the main limitations 
and exclusions of the policy she wouldnt have opted to take PPI because I dont think she 
wouldve considered it worth it to her in her circumstances. So, I think that Mrs S has lost 
out because of what AXA did wrong and so it must put things right.
Putting things right 
AXA should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. 
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any 
charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to 
those charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when 
she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs S 
made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% simple a year . 
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  
she paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs 
S wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 
8% simple a year. 
D.) AXA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs S complaint and order AXA France IARD to put things right as set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman