DRN-4171887
The complaint
Mrs S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly recorded a claim under her 
motor insurance policy as being her fault, which has resulted in increased premiums. 
What happened
In early 2022, a tree fell on Mrs S parked car causing damage. So Mrs S made a claim on 
her motor insurance policy with UKI.
UKI has recorded the claim as a fault claim on the basis that its unable to prove 
negligence on behalf of the owner of the tree  so theres no prospects of recovering its 
costs. But Mrs S doesnt think this is fair as the incident wasnt her fault  she wasnt in the 
car at the time. Shes now subjected to higher policy premiums due to the fault claim. 
Mrs S made a complaint, which she brought to our Service. But our Investigator didnt think 
UKI had done anything wrong or unfair. As Mrs S doesnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only a court can 
determine. What Im deciding here is whether UKI has acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and handled the claim in a fair and reasonable way.
The policys terms and conditions set out the agreement between UKI and Mrs S. Terms like 
this arent unusual as they are a feature of all motor insurance policies. This allows UKI to 
settle a claim as it sees fit. This means it doesnt need Mrs S approval of any decision on 
how it chooses to resolve or record a claim. That might mean it makes a decision the 
policyholder disagrees with, as has happened here.
UKI isnt obliged to take a case to court. Its allowed to consider the potential costs and risks 
of proceeding to court. In this case, UKI did engage with the tree owners insurers, but they 
didnt accept liability for the incident. As UKI were unable to prove the tree was rotten or 
poorly maintained, it didnt think there were prospects of proving the owner was at fault and 
recovering its losses. Im satisfied this was a fair assessment of the claim and the conclusion 
is not unreasonable. 
I can understand why Mrs S feels frustrated that UKI has recorded the claim as fault/non-
recoverable on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, as she wasnt to 
blame for the accident. But the fault record doesnt mean Mrs S is being blamed for the 
tree falling on her car. Rather, it means UKI has been unable to recover its outlay so Mrs S 
policy has taken responsibility for those costs. This is standard industry practice, and I cant 
fairly say it was incorrect for the claim to be recorded this way. 
Whilst a fault claim may impact the price of Mrs S policy, not all insurers will calculate their 
premiums in the same way and she may still find that she can obtain an affordable policy if 
she shops around. I understand much of the increase in premium at the most recent renewal 
related to the claim being open at the time. Now this is closed, Mrs S should liaise with UKI 
to have the premium recalculated now that the outcome of the claim is known.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman