DRN-3800187
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) hasnt treated him fairly after he reported 
sending money to a Metro account as part of a scam. 
Metro says Mr B has a civil dispute with the beneficiary of the funds rather than this being 
fraudulent or a scam.
What happened
Over two dates in September 2021, Mr B sent payments totalling £3,200 from his current 
account held with a building society. The payments were made to a personal account held at 
Metro Bank.
Mr B subsequently reported to his building society that he believed hed fallen victim to an 
HMRC impersonation scam, a widely publicised type of Authorised Push Payment scam 
(APP scam). 
Mr Bs building society contacted Metro to report the allegation. Metro says it contacted its 
customer (the beneficiary of the funds) to obtain their side of the story. Based on Metros 
enquiries, it told Mr Bs building society that it believed this was not a fraudulent transaction. 
Metros customer had explained the payment was made for a different reason than that 
given by Mr B and that the payment had been legitimate. Metro considered its customers 
explanation and supporting evidence was persuasive.
Mr B reiterated his version of events. He knew he was the subject of a genuine HMRC 
investigation and explained that when hed received a call that appeared to originate from 
HMRC this had seemed plausible to him. Mr B was able to provide information evidencing 
an ongoing HMRC investigation at the time.
Unfortunately, there was no similar evidence available relating to the calls that had led him to 
make the payments which might help contradict what Metros customer said. Mr B explained 
his mobile provider did not retain records of inbound calls and neither could he retrieve this 
from his mobile phone. The contact with the scammer had been verbal so there was no 
other way to show what hed been told.
Mr B reported the matter to Action Fraud, but it does not appear any action was taken as a 
result. Mr B complained to both his building society and to Metro. 
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. But he didnt find Metro was at fault and 
didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. The Investigator thought that the balance of the evidence 
didnt show this was a scam or fraud rather than being a civil matter.
In particular, the Investigator noted that Metro had obtained messages from its customer 
appearing to show that Mr B had some sort of relationship with the beneficiary of the funds. 
There was no mention of HMRC in these messages, and the messages instead appeared to 
corroborate the recipients version of events. The Investigator also noted that Metro reported 
having no concerns about the account usage, besides the report made by Mr B. 
Mr B didnt accept this. He was adamant that the Investigator was mistaken in their 
conclusions. He maintained that these two payments had been made as the result of an 
HMRC impersonation scam. He should be refunded by Metro.
Mr B acknowledged hed later realised he had been in conversations with someone whose 
name might have been similar to the payees name on a dating site hed used. That person 
had now blocked contact with him so he couldnt now check the profile or message them. 
But at the time of the payments, he simply hadnt connected that persons name with the 
payees name hed been told to use for the payments hed sent.
And while hed chosen friend/relative as the payment reason for his building society, he 
would always choose this option for his payments simply because it was the first one. He 
said it didnt reflect what the payment was really for.
Mr B also explained he remembered previously downloading some software which might 
have meant his computer was compromised. He thought it possible someone had been able 
to learn of the genuine HMRC investigation by reading his emails and then used that 
information to deceive him into making the payments.
Mr B further disputed that the messages provided to Metro were genuine  he believed they 
were altered or doctored, and neither did he think the recipients story made sense.
In light of Mr Bs disagreement with the Investigators opinion, I have been asked to make a 
final decision on his complaint about Metro.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
While Mr Bs complaint about Metro does not stem from a direct customer relationship he 
holds with the bank, I can nonetheless consider the complaint because it contains the 
allegation that the matter was potentially an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam). 
Mr B says he sent two payments to Metro as the result of an APP scam involving HMRC 
impersonation.
When a bank receives the report of an alleged APP scam involving funds received by one of 
its customers, it should investigate that allegation promptly. I can see here that Metro did 
carry out such an investigation when Mr Bs allegations were first reported to it. However, I 
have considered whether the evidence available shows Metro acted unfairly to Mr B either in 
the course of that investigation or in the outcome it reached. 
In considering this, Ive first determined whether the evidence persuades me Mr Bs version 
of events is demonstrably the more likely of the two versions (not merely as likely as the 
alternative).
As a starting point there are obviously significant contradictions in the different versions of 
events leading to the disputed payments. As an impartial observer after the event, I cannot know with certainty which version best reflects what actually happened. 
In situations such as this, Im required to reach a finding based on a balance of probabilities 
 in other words what I consider is most likely, given the evidence available to me. 
Metro placed some reliance on messages supplied by the recipient. Mr B counters that the 
messages provided to Metro could have been doctored. Ive taken into account all the points 
hes raised in this regard. However, I havent found that the messages show signs of 
alteration beyond the redaction of personal information that Metro would be required to carry 
out by law (and which it confirms it did). Nor am I persuaded there are other obvious signs 
which might lead me to find it most likely these were other than genuine.
That is not to say that Mr Bs version of events isnt a possible explanation. But I am not 
persuaded that I can safely reach a conclusion that, looked at impartially and based on all 
the evidence, it is more likely than the alternative scenario in which the disputed messages 
were as they appear and are genuine.
Further, taking everything into consideration, and thinking about all the evidence available to 
me, I dont find that evidence sufficient for me to conclude this was most likely an HMRC 
impersonation scam. The only information pointing to that is Mr Bs own testimony, and I 
dont find that consistent with the information and payment details hed input in the course of 
making the original payment requests. The payment reference, payee name and payment 
purpose he provided to his building society are to my mind all consistent with this having 
been a personal payment rather than for a tax penalty. I cant fairly overlook these 
inconsistencies.
I can only make a finding based on the balance of the evidence available to me. While I 
consider it possible that this was an APP scam rather than the civil matter Metro believes it 
to be, I cant safely reach the finding that an APP scam is the more likely explanation based 
on that evidence. 
It follows that I cannot fairly require Metro to reimburse Mr B for the money he paid. An APP 
scam reimbursement code exists (The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code or CRM 
Code) to provide additional protection for victims of APP scams. But that code only applies 
to APP scams and specifically excludes civil disputes. On balance, I havent found the 
evidence shows this was an APP scam covered by the CRM Code, so I do not find the code 
applicable to the payments Mr B sent.
Neither do I otherwise find Metro liable to refund Mr B for any other reason. I think it acted 
reasonably in investigating Mr Bs allegations and met its obligations in doing so - it did not 
reach an unreasonable or unfair outcome. 
It is worth noting that even if I found differently, and considered that this had been an APP 
scam, it would not necessarily follow that Metro would be liable to reimburse any money to 
Mr B either under the terms of the CRM code or otherwise. That would require there to have 
been material fault on the part of Metro, or some such failure to meet its general obligations, 
and I have not seen evidence that would likely lead me to such a conclusion.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr B and I appreciate this is not the outcome he will have hoped for. 
But I dont find Metro at fault, and I cannot fairly require it to reimburse Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Metro Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman