DRN-1942821
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage held by the late Mr S with Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. The complaint has arisen because of how Barclays administered the mortgage between 
Mr Ss death in 2017 and the appointment of the executor of his estate in 2019.
 
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill provide a summary, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr S died in 2017. His financial affairs werent straightforward and it took around two years 
for probate to be granted. During the interim, Barclays refused to discuss any of the details 
of the mortgage with what, as far it was concerned, were unauthorised third parties. 
 The estate, represented here by the executor, sought compensation for the following:
Barclays rejected a £30,000 part-redemption payment he attempted to make in 
April 2018. 
Receivers Barclays appointed to manage the property, a few weeks before probate was 
eventually granted in 2019, removed the tenants and damaged the front door.
Barclays rejected the complaint saying it had followed its normal procedures for cases where 
more than a year has passed without probate being granted. Soon after, probate was 
granted, and the executor repaid the mortgage in full.
Our investigator thought that for the most part, Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably. But he 
did think it was inconsistent of the bank to refuse acceptance of the £30,000 lump sum, 
given that its policy was to accept payments from any party who wished to make one. To 
emphasise the point, he observed that Barclays had accepted a smaller payment from the 
executor. He recommended Barclays refund the estate with the interest charged on the 
£30,000 from the date in April 2018 when the payment was attempted up the date of full 
redemption.
The executor accepted the investigators findings, but Barclays didnt. It said the reason the 
payment had been refused was that the executor had input the wrong account information, 
not because he hadnt yet obtained grant of probate. We checked this and it was established 
that the information the executor had used to make the payment had been provided by 
Barclays. Despite this, Barclays wasnt willing to settle the complaint and asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
much the same reasons.
In asking for the case to be decided by an ombudsman, Barclays said that the executor had 
assumed the part-redemption had been returned due to the probate delay, rather than make 
enquiries to find out the real reason. It also said the question over the part-redemption hadnt 
been part of the complaint when it issued its final response, but had been added later.
On the latter point, the complaint form we received from the executor on 5 July 2019 to start 
the complaint referenced the attempt to pay the £30,000. We passed the complaint form to 
Barclays for its comments on 16 September 2019. I accept that is after the bank issued its 
final response, which was on 15 July 2019. 
But it still means Barclays has known about the issue since mid-September 2019, and been 
able to comment on it. The rules of complaint-handling give a business up to eight weeks to 
deal with a complaint; our investigator issued his view of this case in April 2020, which 
means Barclays had approximately seven months to address the question of the 
part-redemption before we made any findings on it.
I have to say I am very surprised by Barclays comment about why it doesnt think it should 
compensate the estate for the rejection of the part-redemption. In essence, what is being 
argued is that because the executor didnt ask why the money had been returned, Barclays 
should not have to account for the mistake that caused it to be returned. By any reasonable 
assessment, that argument fails. If a business makes a mistake that causes a customer 
financial detriment, its liable to make good that loss, regardless of when and by what means 
the error came to light. Barclays really should know that
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay 
the estate of Mr S a sum equal to the interest chargeable on £30,000 between 11 April 2018 
and the date the mortgage was repaid. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman