DRN-3415114
The complaint
Mr G complains that MBNA Limited failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise, which 
has also affected his credit rating.
What happened
Mr G explained that he received a text message from MBNA indicating he was near to his 
credit limit. After reviewing his online banking, Mr G noticed over 30 transactions had taken 
place over two months earlier which he didnt recognise.
The total of these transactions was over £10,000 and were all made to an online merchant 
Ill refer to as T. Mr G spoke with MBNA on several occasions and explained that he hadnt 
made the payments himself. Mr G confirmed that no one else had access to his phone and 
he hadnt given anyone his card details.
MBNA agreed to provide Mr G with a temporary credit and refunded the disputed 
transactions back on to his credit card. MBNA then approached T using a chargeback 
procedure. This is a means of investigating issues with payments and allows banks and 
merchants to communicate with each other. The chargeback system is run by the scheme 
operator and is subject to strict rules.
Mr G also contacted T ( he already had a relationship with them) and T agreed to cancel the 
payments, but T didnt appear to follow this up with any refund back to Mr Gs MBNA 
account. MBNA challenged the transactions through the chargeback system, T defended 
them and provided evidence to MBNA that they believed Mr G was responsible for the 
disputed transactions.
T's evidence showed that Mr Gs correct details, including his name, address and credit card 
details plus Mr Gs correct email address were used to make the purchases. T also provided 
IP address data that indicated the payments originated from the area of Mr Gs address.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
MBNA sent a letter to Mr G for him to provide further information to go back to T and 
challenge their evidence. The letter also indicated that no response would mean the 
temporary refund would be reversed. MBNA didnt receive any response to the letter, 
although Mr G later denied receiving it.
MBNA took back the temporary refund but Mr G was unhappy with how his issue had been 
handled and complained. MBNA looked into the situation and didnt change their position on 
the refund although they did acknowledge their customer service was poor and offered £45 
to Mr G. MBNA agreed to amend Mr Gs credit file for an earlier issue with a payment.
Mr G then brough this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review where it was looked into by one of our Adjudicators. They asked for information from 
both parties. Mr G explained what had happened and provided copies of notifications from T 
that indicated the disputed transactions had been cancelled.
MBNA provided information about the transactions, Mr Gs online banking activity and 
information concerning communications theyd had with him.
After reviewing the information our Adjudicator thought it was reasonable for MBNA to hold 
Mr G responsible for the disputed transactions and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr G disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint, 
commenting that T had cancelled the payments and he believed the money was refunded. 
Mr G couldnt understand how he was still being held responsible for them.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that MBNA can hold Mr G liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them 
or authorised them. 
MBNA can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr G authorised the 
transactions, but MBNA cannot say that the use of the card details entered into an online 
merchants website conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless MBNA can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Gs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr G.
But, Ill now need to consider if sufficient evidence has been provided to show that Mr G 
consented to the transactions.
Mr G denied making these payments to T and its MBNAs case that Mr G was responsible 
for them. So, Ive examined what evidence exists to assess whether MBNA can hold Mr G 
liable.
MBNA provided evidence that theyd sent various text messages to Mr G around the time of 
the disputed transactions to notify him about his credit limit. Mr G said the first time he was 
aware of the problem was some months later when he saw a text from MBNA. As the 
number held by MBNA was the same, I think it unlikely that the texts werent delivered to Mr 
Gs phone  so Im unsure how he was unaware that his credit card was being used at that 
time.
MBNA showed that MR G was using the online banking app to access his credit card details. 
Records show that Mr Gs access of the account was on a number of occasions when the 
disputed transactions were being made. So, I find it difficult to understand how Mr G could 
be unaware of an increasingly large number of transactions that were each, in the main, for 
about £300. The amount quickly grew, and I think it would have been apparent to Mr G when 
he used his online banking. But, Mr G didnt contact MBNA about it for several months.T's evidence shows IP address data that indicated the payments came from the location of 
Mr Gs home address and closely matched the IP address data held by MBNA.
Mr G explained that no one else had access to his phone or card. So, I dont think its likely 
that an unknown third party could obtain all the information needed to satisfy access to T, 
using Mr Gs card details and be in the same location as Mr G. 
Ts process was to provide confirmation emails when each transaction was made and the 
email address they held for Mr G was the same one that T sent the cancellation notices to, 
so I think any confirmation emails generated by the payments were likely also sent to this 
email. Its unclear to me how Mr G could be unaware that these transactions were taking 
place.
So, when I take everything into account, I think it more likely than not that Mr G was 
responsible for making these transactions or allowing someone else to use his details. I say 
that because the transactions used Mr Gs correct credit card, correct email address, phone 
number, the IP address data closely matches MBNA data, Mr G was using his online 
banking account at the time and he was sent several text messages to his registered phone 
at the time alerting him to use of his card. 
Ive also thought about Mr Gs issue with the cancellations received from T. On the face of 
it, the situation with the cancellations conflicts with the activity on Mr Gs account. Having 
examined the credit account, the disputed transactions were originally authorised, then 
temporarily refunded before MBNA reversed the refund. I couldnt see any payment coming 
back to the credit card from T. So, its not clear what T have done here, but as the complaint 
is against MBNA, I cant comment on what T have or havent done when they sent Mr G the 
cancellation notices. 
It is apparent from the credit card statements that T havent returned any funds to it, so the 
original payments remain outstanding and I think its fair and reasonable for MBNA to hold 
Mr G liable for them.
I think MBNA were correct when they recognised that an earlier update to the credit 
agencies wasnt reflective of the situation Mr G was in, but I think it was reasonable for 
MBNA to report the later activity on the card and any payments made or not as the case may 
be.
MBNA recognised that theyd let Mr G down with how theyd dealt with him and the delays 
hed experienced when reporting the disputed transactions, and I think their payment of £45 
is a reasonable way to compensate Mr G, so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman