DRN-2667680
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled 
repairs when Mr M made a claim as a named driver under Mrs Ms car insurance policy. 
Mr Ms father is representing him in his complaint. For ease Ill refer to Mr M as Mr M1 and 
his father as Mr M2 in my decision.
What happened
Mr M1 was involved in an incident with another vehicle and his car was damaged. Admiral 
arranged for Mr M1s car to be repaired by an approved repairer (AR). 
Mr M1 made a series of complaints to Admiral about the handling of the claim and 
specifically how Admiral intended to carry out repairs and rectification repairs to his car. 
Unhappy with Admirals reply, Mr M2 asked us to look at his sons complaint. Mr M1 returned 
settlement and compensation cheques to Admiral totalling £2,814.80 as he didnt think 
Admiral had paid enough to put things right.. 
Our investigator thought that where Admiral had made mistakes, it had done enough to put 
things right. It paid a total of £180 compensation. He thought that Admirals decision to settle 
the claim by way of a cash settlement  and the amount it paid for non- incident related 
damage  was fair. So he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr M2 didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent repeated the complaints in the same level of detail as Mr M2. That isnt to say I 
havent considered everything hes said and provided. But Ive addressed the salient points 
under headings below. 
Before I do, I think is important to say that I understand that being involved in an incident is 
an upsetting experience. The impact of the circumstances of the incident and the actions of 
the other party involved arent things I can consider here. I also understand the background 
Mr M2 has described to appreciate that the damaged car is something his son took pride in 
when he bought it. Mr M2 says the car was in showroom condition before the incident.
My role is to take an even handed and impartial approach to the information provided by 
both parties and decide if Admiral acted reasonably and in line with the policy while dealing 
with the claim. And if and where it didnt, what the impact of that failing was and whether 
Admiral did enough to put things right. 
Admiral and the ARs poor service and damage to Mr M1s car
Admiral accepts that at times it made mistakes in the handling of the claim. It contacted Mrs 
M1 instead of Mr M1when requested. For this error, it paid a total of £50 compensation. I 
agree that the service Mr M1 received from the AR wasnt of the standard expected. There 
was a delay of two weeks in arranging for Mr M1s car to be collected for repair. For this 
delay Admiral apologised to Mr M1 and paid him £30 compensation. This was made up of 
£25 for the inconvenience caused and £5 for phone calls. I think this was reasonable to 
reflect the inconvenience caused by the delay. Overall Admiral paid compensation to Mr M1 
of £180. 
Mr M1 wanted Admiral to only use retail manufacturer parts and replace the damage parts 
rather than repair them. He believed the drivers door wouldnt be safe if it was repaired 
rather than replaced. Mr M1 visited the AR and discovered non-incident related damage 
which he said the AR had caused. Mr M2 said the AR failed to carry out a proper hand over 
process when they collected Mr M1s car. Mr M1 said that repairs carried out by the AR 
would affect a paint warranty he had. 
Admiral instructed an Independent Assessor to inspect Mr M1s car in March 2020. The IA 
described the damage from the impact as light to moderate. And he noted that Mr M1s car 
was in very good condition. Mr M1 also attended the inspection with Mr M2 to show the 
damage he said had been caused by the AR. 
Because there was no evidence of the AR recording the condition of Mr M1s car when 
collected, the IA provided an estimate for all of the non-incident related repairs Mr M1 
complained about. Even though the AR didnt agree they were responsible for all of the 
rectification repairs, Admiral accepted the IAs recommendations and paid Mr M1 the full 
estimate amount of £361.44 which I think was fair. This excluded replacing the front bumper 
 but this cost was included in the £2,473.36 cash settlement Admiral also paid (minus an 
excess of £200) as Mr M1 didnt want the AR to carry out repairs to his car.
Mr M1 and Mr M2 dont agree that these amounts are enough to carry out the repairs to put 
Mr M1s car back in the position it was in before the incident. Hes provided estimates to 
repair his car  which include replacing the drivers door  for £4,727 and £4,578. He said 
that there was grit damage to the bonnet caused by the incident. Admiral didnt agree and 
said the bonnet damage was pre-existing and caused by stone chips.
Mr M1s policy with Admiral says it can decide how to settle a claim by either repairing his 
car or pay a cash sum, based on the recommendation by the garage or engineer. So in line 
with the policy, I dont think Admiral did anything wrong by relying on the AR and IAs 
estimates. The policy says any incident related repairs carried out by an AR are guaranteed 
for the lifetime Mr(s) M1 owns the car. 
Mr M2 says the initial estimate provided by the AR included replacing the door. He doesnt 
think its fair that Admirals in-house engineer decided the door could be repaired based on 
photos.
Mr M2 says both the AR and IA said at the inspection in March 2020 that the drivers door 
was compromised and required replacing rather than repair. 
The IA commented in his report:
Roadworthy State  In our opinion this vehicle was not roadworthy at the time of our 
inspection as a result of the damage sustained due to possible damage to the drivers door safety bar. We understand that the vehicle is not currently being used 
by the owner.
Admirals in-house engineer said theres no evidence that it isnt safe to have the door 
repaired. I understand how strongly Mr M1 and Mr M2 feel about this issue. But based on all 
of the information available, I agree with Admiral here. 
I cant comment on the discussions that took place between the AR, IA and Mr M1 and Mr 
M2 in March 2020. This doesnt mean that I dont believe what Mr M1 and Mr M2 says. But 
the IAs report to Admiral doesnt say that it isnt safe to repair the door. So I dont think 
Admiral acted unreasonably in relying on the report the IA provided.
The AR told Admiral when they provided their initial estimate  which included replacing the 
door  that Mr M1 insisted on only replacement items, and not repairs. So the ARs initial 
estimate was higher for this reason and said that it was for Admiral to amend if needed. 
Theres no evidence from the AR to say the door cant be safely repaired. The IA also 
commented that Mr M1 was only willing to accept the full retail costs of the original damage 
estimate as a cash settlement plus the cost of the non-incident related damage. 
Mr M1 said he asked Admiral to allow him to pay the difference to replace the door rather 
than repair it, but Admiral refused his request. This isnt something Admiral was obliged to 
do as it was responsible for providing indemnity for incident related damage only  but in any 
event Mr M1 didnt want the AR to carry out any repairs to his car. So Admiral paid Mr M1 a 
cash settlement instead. 
I know Mr M2 doesnt agree with the cash settlement amount paid. But I think the settlement 
is fair as its based on the equivalent it would have cost had the AR carried out the repairs, 
and to repair rather than replace the drivers door. This was in line with the policy. And by 
paying Mr M1 a cash settlement, this meant Mr M1 could arrange his own repairs and 
contribute to a replacement door if he wanted.
As both parties couldnt agree, Admiral issued a cash payment to settle the claim and 
arranged for the return of the hire car. I think this was a reasonable approach to take as 
there was clearly an impasse. Admirals policy says if Mr M1 chooses not to use their AR, 
they will not provide a courtesy car. So it arranged for Mr M1s car to be returned to him to 
prevent further storage costs being incurred. And Admiral explained that accepting the cash 
settlement and compensation payments wouldnt prejudice Mr M1s right to escalate his 
complaint. Mr M1 didnt accept the payments and returned the cheque(s) to Admiral.
Mr M1 says they bought a replacement car as they were left without transport and their car 
hasnt been repaired. When considering a claim for loss of use, or distress and 
inconvenience, we consider what a customer did to mitigate their losses. As Admiral paid Mr 
M1 what I believe was a reasonable amount to settle his claim, I dont think its responsible 
for the subsequent losses Mr M1 is claiming for once the hire car was returned.
Liability 
We cannot make a decision about liability, as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at 
whether an insurer has reached a decision reasonably and in line with the policy terms. 
Admirals policy has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all other motor 
insurance policies. This term says Admiral can take over the defence and settlement of a 
claim in Mr M1s name. This means Admiral might make a decision Mr M1 doesnt agree 
with, but the policy allows Admiral to do so. We dont disagree with this term in principle 
provided an insurer can show it treated its customer fairly when applying it. Admiral received an offer to settle the claim on a shared liability 50%50% basis. Mr M1 told 
Admiral he didnt agree. He said he had an independent witness to verify what happened 
and to support his view that the other driver was full responsible for the incident. 
Admiral told Mr M1 that even with an independent witness in his favour, it would be highly 
likely Admiral would hold some portion of liability as the other vehicle was an articulated lorry 
and the third party insurer (TPI) would say their driver would have to straddle two lanes in 
order to make their manoeuvre. However, Admiral explained to Mr M1 that in order to 
progress the case, it would need to claim against the TPI for repairable costs. But because 
Mr M1 hasnt paid for repairs, there are no costs for Admiral to claim against the TPI. So 
theyre unable to progress with the liability aspect of the claim.
I think Admiral has shown it properly investigated and considered liability.
I understand that Mr M1 didnt agree with the repair methods Admirals AR intended to use. 
But this was a decision Admiral could make within the terms of the policy. Admiral calculated 
the repairs based on AR rates which they are entitled to do as this is what it would have 
otherwise cost them. Those repairs would carry a lifetime warranty. As Mr M1 didnt agree 
with Admirals repair method, he received an alternative settlement instead. It was then his 
choice to have the repairs done the way he wanted, but any additional cost would be for Mr 
M1 to pay. I dont think its unreasonable that Admiral didnt cover the costs to have retail 
manufactured parts for repairs and at dealership rates  as this isnt covered under the 
policy. 
I realise Mr M1 and Mr M2 will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Admiral 
settled Mr M1s claim fairly. So Im not asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Admiral Insurance Company 
Limiteds settlement that it paid Mr M1 totalling £2,814.80 was fair. So my decision is that 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay £2,814.80.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman