DRN-2596380
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance (UKI) has turned down a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy and has cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr B has travel insurance as a benefit of his packaged bank account. The policy is insured 
by UKI.
In March 2020, Mr B was abroad in a country which Ill call B. He got in touch with UKIs 
medical assistance team as hed been diagnosed with Covid-19. He incurred some medical 
expenses and was told to quarantine in his hotel. UKIs assistance team planned to help Mr 
B return to the UK once he was fit to fly.
However, Mr B got in touch with UKI to let it know hed since flown to another country, which 
Ill call E. He told UKI that he was again required to quarantine and that he didnt have any 
money for accommodation. UKI paid £1625 to the bank account details Mr B provided so 
that he could pay for his accommodation. He later told UKI hed need to extend his trip 
further and would require it to pay for further accommodation.
UKI looked further into Mr Bs claim. It noticed that Mr Bs social media suggested he lived in 
E rather than the UK. It was concerned that Mr B had given it conflicting information about 
how and who had found his accommodation. It also noticed that the bank account itd been 
asked to pay Mr Bs accommodation expenses into was held in the name of Mr Bs ex-
partner. It found that Mr B let out property in the city he was staying in and it said that this 
property had been available to rent at the time Mr B was claiming for. It also hadnt seen 
evidence of a return flight booked from E back to the UK. UKI raised other concerns about 
Mr Bs claim and it asked him to provide further evidence to answer the questions itd asked.
Mr B said, amongst other things, that he didnt live in E, he lived in the UK, but his children 
lived in E, which was why he regularly visited it. He provided a phone bill, registered in his 
name and address in the UK, which showed calls being made in the UK in the months 
before the claim. He told UKI his property in E had been rented out at the time of his claim, 
so hed needed accommodation. And he said his ex-partner had found the accommodation 
for him and had been paid some commission for doing so.
UKI wasnt satisfied by Mr Bs answers to its questions. It didnt think Mr B had incurred any 
accommodation expenses while he was in E. So it invoked the fraud condition in Mr Bs 
policy. It told him it thought hed sought to dishonestly gain a financial advantage he wasnt 
entitled to. It explained it would be cancelling his policy from the date Mr B made his claim. 
And it told him hed need to repay the £1625 that itd paid to Mr Bs ex-partners account.
Mr B was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He didnt 
think it was fair for UKI to rely on the fraud condition to turn down his claim and cancel his 
policy.
Our investigator thought UKI had acted fairly. She didnt think Mr B had shown evidence that 
hed always intended to start and end his trip in E, as hed told UKI. She noted that Mr B had 
told UKI that when he arrived in E, he had no money and so hed found accommodation 
through a broker. Hed asked for the money to be paid to the brokers account. He later told 
UKI that hed paid the accommodation owner upfront with cash he hadnt spent while he was 
staying in B and the owner had refunded him that cash. She was satisfied that Mr B hadnt 
told UKI that the money hed asked it to pay to the broker was his ex-partners account. 
The investigator noted that Mr B had provided conflicting information about whether or not 
he owned any property in E. And that when hed asked for further accommodation costs to 
be reimbursed because he said hed developed a cough and needed to stay in E, the 
account name hed paid was to a wine bar which was also owned by his ex-partner. Overall, 
the investigator thought that given the contradictory information Mr B had provided to UKI, it 
was fair and reasonable for it to rely on the fraud condition, to cancel Mr Bs policy and to 
seek to recover the accommodation expenses itd paid out.
Mr B disagreed. He said the landlord of the accommodation wanted to be paid in cash. UKI 
had offered to pay directly to his bank account for the accommodation, but because he has a 
limit on daily withdrawal and he couldnt carry out a bank transfer; he asked it to pay his ex-
partner. Hed proved he had nowhere else to stay. His ex-partner had helped him to find 
accommodation because all of the hotels were closed. She wasnt a broker  she simply 
knew the landlord who owned flats above her wine bar. Hed never been dishonest or 
exaggerated his claim. Hed been ill with Covid-19 and was suffering from what are now 
known to be symptoms of it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on the fraud condition to 
turn down Mr Bs claim and to cancel his policy. Ill explain why.
First, I should make it clear that in this decision, Im not making any finding on whether or not 
Mr B did commit fraud. That isnt my role. Im only considering whether or not I think UKI was 
reasonably entitled to rely on the fraud condition to cancel Mr Bs policy.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. Thats because it forms the 
basis of the contract between Mr B and UKI. This says:
Fraud
You must be honest and truthful in your dealings with us at all times.
If you, any insured person or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or 
knowingly makes a false claim, we have the right to refuse claims and retain any premium 
paid. We may recover from you any costs we have incurred, including the costs of 
investigating the claim.
We will not pay a claim which is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. We will also not 
deal with any claims following discovery of this behaviour regardless of when the claims 
occurred.In addition, we have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and share details 
of this behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud. We may also involve the 
relevant authorities who are empowered to bring criminal proceedings.
UKI had some concerns about the validity of Mr Bs claim  some of which Ive set out 
above. It was especially concerned that Mr B lived in E and that he hadnt incurred any 
accommodation costs. So I think it was reasonable for it to ask Mr B some further questions 
and to ask him for evidence in support of his claim. Thats because I think UKI was entitled 
to be satisfied that a) Mr B was eligible for his policy and b) that hed incurred the losses he 
said he had and that these were covered by the policy terms.
Ive looked carefully at all of the evidence Mr B and UKI have provided. It does appear that 
at times, Mr B has given UKI conflicting information about his claim, which differs to 
information hes given us. I wont look into each one of these issues  Ill focus on those 
which I think are key.
It seems Mr B initially told UKI that he had no money for accommodation in E. But that he 
later told it hed been able to pay for the accommodation upfront because he had lots of cash 
leftover from his time in country B. UKI also says he told it that hed arranged the 
accommodation himself after spending some time trying to do so. UKI says Mr B later told it 
that the accommodation had been arranged by a broker, who it later found out was Mr Bs 
ex-partner. 
Ive also seen from UKIs notes that Mr B sent it an invoice for the first accommodation which 
gave his ex-partners account details. So I can understand why UKI wouldve understood this 
to mean that the account holder was the owner of the property Mr B was staying in. Mr B 
later told it that the invoice was sent from a letting agency but that his ex-partner had told 
him to include her address because shed acted as a middle-man. He also indicated that 
shed received commission. An entry on Mr Bs account statement also referred to a 
payment which he said hed paid for further accommodation to a contact of his ex-partners 
who owned rental properties above her wine bar. But it seems from social media evidence 
that the company Mr B paid at this point was the wine bar itself, owned by his ex-partner. 
Mr B now says that his ex-partner wasnt a broker  she was simply a contact of the landlord 
whom he trusted with the money. 
UKI also asked Mr B whether he owned any property in E. Mr B does own a rental property 
in the city in E, where he was staying, which he rents out. It doesnt look like Mr B initially 
told UKI about this property and that instead, he said he didnt own any property. He then 
went on to say that hed previously owned property which had been sold on. Ive seen 
evidence of the property Mr B rents out in E. UKI says it was available for rent at the time Mr 
B was quarantined in E. Its sent us a screenshot to demonstrate this. The screenshot 
doesnt include a date though, so it isnt clear that the property was available for rent at the 
relevant time. But it doesnt look as if Mr B gave UKI clear information about this property 
when it first asked.
On this basis, given the contradictory information Mr B gave UKI about his accommodation; 
how it was arranged and how it was paid for; I can understand why UKI concluded he hadnt 
provided a satisfactory explanation for the discrepancies in the information hed provided. 
UKI is also concerned that Mr B told it he lived in the UK, but that he actually lives in E. If he 
lives in E, then it seems unlikely he couldve incurred any accommodation costs there. Its 
referred to the fact that Mr Bs social media profile says that he lives in the city in E where he 
was staying at the point of his claim. Its also sent me a copy of that information. Mr B told it 
he doesnt have a job in the UK  so it concludes that Mr B likely works in E, especially given 
he owns rental property there. Mr Bs flight itinerary suggested that he flew from E, to the UK, to B and then back to the UK. He then booked a one-way flight onto E. We asked Mr B 
for evidence of his return flight to the UK from E, but he hasnt, to date, provided one. 
Mr Bs provided UKI with a copy of a phone bill which is registered in his name, to a UK 
address and which made UK-based calls in the months before the claim. And Ive thought 
about this. But Ive also noticed that the emails Mr B sent UKI while he was away were sent 
from a mobile phone which was connected to a separate phone network. So it isnt clear to 
me that this phone bill is enough evidence to demonstrate that, on balance, Mr B lives in the 
UK. 
Based on the discrepancies UKI has identified and the current information Mr B has 
provided, I think it was reasonable for UKI to have concerns about the claim. I also think its 
concerns havent been appropriately addressed by Mr B. Given those concerns, I dont think 
it was unfair for UKI to rely on the fraud condition to cancel Mr Bs policy and to ask for its 
payment to be reimbursed. 
While I appreciate Mr B did go through a distressing time while he was abroad and Im sorry 
to hear he was so unwell, I think UKI treated him fairly. So Ive decided UKI doesnt need to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman