DRN-2640385
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim made on his 
roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr Gs vehicle broke down, so he made a claim on his roadside assistance 
policy  underwritten by UKI. Mr G was travelling with his family, including two young 
children, when they were forced to stop on a slip road just off of an A-road. Hed been 
towing the caravan they planned to holiday in, and the call out notes say the issue with the 
vehicle was a loss of power without any warning lights. 
Around two hours after reporting it, UKIs service provider attended the scene to inspect the 
vehicle. The agent decided the vehicle couldnt be repaired at the roadside and recorded a 
suspected fault with the clutch. Mr G later said that the agent did little to diagnose the fault, 
and did not attempt to put the vehicle into gear or check the clutch for play. 
Four hours later the service provider arrived with a recovery vehicle, and an agent again 
recorded a clutch fault  saying the pedal didnt feel normal and was stuck to the floor. A 
second recovery vehicle was requested, as the combined length of the transporter and 
caravan meant access to the destination site wouldnt have been possible. Mr Gs family, 
vehicle and caravan were eventually recovered to the caravan site where they were staying 
nearly seven hours after initially calling to request assistance.
Mr Gs vehicle was taken to the service providers garage for repairs a few days later. Once 
there the garage performed a road test, checked the drive shafts, ran a diagnostic test, and 
checked all turbo pipes and the intercooler. The invoice for the work showed two fault codes 
were returned during the diagnostic test  but no faults could actually be found on physical 
inspection. The garage suspected Mr Gs vehicle had gone into limp mode after being 
overworked from towing a large caravan along a steep bypass. 
Mr G complained that UKIs service provider misdiagnosed the vehicles fault at the 
roadside. He also said the seven hours it had taken to be recovered was extremely 
distressing, given his two young children were also with him. Mr G wanted UKI to cover his 
hire car costs (£240), the diagnostic test at the garage (£150), and pay compensation for the 
impact the issues had on his holiday.
UKI responded to the complaint in September 2019, and apologised for the length of time 
spent waiting on recovery. The insurer said it was completely unacceptable and offered 
£200 compensation for the distress caused. But after consulting its in-house engineer, UKI 
thought its service provider had rightly recovered the vehicle for further inspection in the 
circumstances  especially given the long return trip. Mr G accepted the compensation for 
the delays, but referred the misdiagnosis issue to our service for review.
An investigator here didnt think UKI needed to do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
She said the agent had given an educated estimate of what the fault might be, and had 
been justified in recovering the vehicle for testing given the reported power loss issues. 
Mr G didnt agree  he said the agent must have incorrectly diagnosed a clutch fault, as the 
issues observed (not feeling normal and stuck to the floor) wouldnt have disappeared on 
arrival at the workshop. Mr G thought recovering the vehicle on the evening of the 
breakdown wasnt unreasonable. But, knowing what he does now about this type of fault, he 
thought UKIs agent should have suggested road testing the vehicle around the campsite 
instead of taking it to the workshop. Mr G added that he experienced a similar breakdown a 
short while after getting home, and a local garage diagnosed the issue as a carbon build up 
in the turbo. He felt UKIs service provider had failed to spot and fix the problem during its 
inspection, and so the insurer should cover the costs incurred at the garage. 
As Mr G didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to acknowledge how worrying and stressful the initial experience of not being 
recovered for seven hours must have been for Mr G and his family. It wouldve been a 
terrible start to their holiday  in part caused by the breakdown of the vehicle, but certainly 
exacerbated by the poor service received from UKIs agent. Im pleased to see that 
compensation was offered and accepted. 
The outstanding issue is whether it was reasonable that UKIs service provider (eventually) 
recovered the vehicle to its workshop for inspection. I think it was  and Ive explained why 
below.
UKIs obligation to Mr G, under the terms of the policy, was to arrange assistance at the 
roadside, and recovery of the vehicle if needed. UKI has accepted responsibility for the 
agents failure to carry out the first recovery within a reasonable timeframe, and paid 
compensation. There was also a gap of a few days before the vehicle was recovered for the 
second time  but that didnt involve any avoidable delays that Im holding UKI accountable 
for. That was largely the result of the initial breakdown happening on a Sunday (so the 
garage wasnt open), and the availability of the garage to carry out repairs that week. Mr G 
also explored the local repairer options before agreeing to go with UKIs service provider. 
The vehicle was inspected and returned to Mr G within four days. While I appreciate he had 
to hire a car in the meantime, I dont think that couldve been avoided  particularly as I think 
the recovery of his vehicle to the workshop was reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not 
directing UKI to cover those hire cost.
Mr G accepts that recovering the vehicle to the campsite on the day of the breakdown was 
reasonable  but thinks it should have been checked over and road tested at the campsite 
before the second recovery. Had that happened, Mr G believes the agent would have 
realised there wasnt likely a clutch problem and his vehicle might not have needed to be 
recovered to the garage.
I accept it would have been frustrating for Mr G to be told that a fault with the clutch was 
suspected, only to later find out that wasnt the cause of the breakdown. But theres a limit to 
what can be fixed and the type of testing that can be done on a vehicle at the roadside  and 
the service provider wasnt bound by any preliminary analysis carried out in the field. 
Whether or not UKIs agent ought to have been able to determine at the roadside that the 
loss of power had likely been caused by the vehicle going into limp mode is debatable. But 
even if it had realised that, I consider recovery to the workshop would still have been necessary. 
Limp mode is a vehicles way of protecting itself from further damage after a potential fault is 
detected. Mr Gs later breakdown proves there was in fact an underlying fault  and having 
considered the nature of the problem eventually diagnosed, and the manner in which that 
happened, I dont think it likely could have been determined and repaired at the roadside. 
Road testing the vehicle around the campsite also wouldnt have diagnosed the underlying 
issue that caused the car to go into limp mode in the first place  or confirmed there wasnt 
an underlying fault. So, to my mind, the service provider would always have needed to 
recover the vehicle to the garage to complete a full inspection. Without doing that, I dont 
think UKIs agent could reasonably have been in a position to deem the vehicle safe to make 
the long journey home. 
As the exact cause of the breakdown would still have been unknown even if a clutch fault 
had been ruled out, Im not persuaded Mr G would have been caused any less worry while it 
was being inspected at the garage. I can also understand his frustration that UKIs service 
provider wasnt able to spot and fix the carbon build up  but the quality of the workmanship 
once the vehicle had been recovered wasnt UKIs responsibility. So Im not directing the 
insurer to cover any amounts Mr G paid for the work undertaken at the workshop. Any 
issues he has with that work would need to be taken up with the garage directly.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about U K Insurance Limited, as I dont 
consider its service provider acted unreasonably by recovering his vehicle for a full 
inspection following the breakdown.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Ombudsman