DRN-4169780
The complaint
Miss M has complained HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund £2,000 for a payment she didnt 
make.
What happened
Whilst in a nightclub Miss M had her phone stolen, along with her national ID and her debit 
card with another bank (who Ill call R).
A week later Miss M received a fraud alert from HSBC about a payment to an unknown third 
party for £650. She called HSBC and confirmed this hadnt been her, and that her mobile 
had recently been stolen.
She discovered a further payment of £2,000 had been made to the same unknown person, 
before the payment she was asked to authorise. She told HSBC this hadnt been her. HSBC 
were unsure how her mobile phone PIN could have been known by a third party and turned 
down her claim.
Disappointed, Miss M brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator 
reviewed the evidence Miss M brought in support of her complaint. He found this balanced 
the complaint in Miss Ms favour and asked HSBC to refund her.
HSBC refused. They couldnt see how the compromise had taken place. Theyve asked an 
ombudsman to review Miss Ms complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss Ms complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Miss Ms case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what HSBC and Miss M have told us. Our investigator shared quite a bit of Miss Ms 
evidence with HSBC at the time he told them he felt they should uphold the complaint. 
I can reassure HSBC Ive considered the points they made following our investigators view.
Overall I believe the evidence shows Miss M didnt authorise the disputed transaction. I say 
this because:
Im in no doubt the evidence shows Miss Ms phone was stolen. This stolen phone 
was used, at a later date, to authenticate the transactions.
According to HSBCs limited records, Miss M normally used biometrics to access her 
phone. For the period of the two disputed transactions on 14 October 2022, her 
phone was accessed using a six-digit PIN.
HSBC say theres no evidence how an unknown third party would have known 
Miss Ms PIN. I dont dispute that. But I can see the fraud happened a few days after 
Miss Ms phone was stolen so it is possible that it took some time for the phone to 
find its way into the hands of someone who was able to uncover Miss Ms PIN 
successfully.
HSBC has brought no evidence to suggest Miss M was grossly negligent (as they are 
required under the PSRs) so I find their suggestions that she was lax with her 
personal security concerning. It feels as if they are suggesting something without any 
evidence to back this up.
Theres no dispute that Miss M contacted HSBC after they alerted her of potential 
fraud on her account. She ensured a payment for £650 was not made. She 
wondered why shed not received an alert for the payment of £2,000 made just 15 
minutes earlier. Ive looked at this aspect on her account, but I believe HSBCs action 
to alert her about the second payment, to the same recipient, and which would have 
effectively emptied her account, was fair.
Miss Ms other account was with R. Her debit card was stolen at the same time as 
her phone. Ive seen that R blocked her card to limit fraudulent use. And that 
fraudulent use was attempted.
HSBC is aware Miss M ensured the second payment was unauthorised, so I wonder 
why they believe shed have authorised a payment of £2,000 to the same recipient 
just beforehand? This doesnt seem logical. 
Miss M reported her financial loss to the police who were able to confirm they werent 
able to take the case further for jurisdictional reasons. If Miss M had been involved in 
the fraud, this would have been a risky thing to do.
I am always wary that just because theres no obvious point of compromise, that would 
mean the accountholder must have made the payment. This would seem to ignore what we 
know about fraud. I just need to be satisfied that there are scenarios which could explain 
how the compromise took place. I believe these exist here.
Based on the evidence, I am satisfied Miss M didnt authorise the transaction for £2,000.
Putting things right
HSBC will need to refund £2,000 to Miss M. This was a substantial amount in relation to the 
status of Miss Ms HSBC account at the time. I think its fair and reasonable they also add 
8% simple interest to that amount for the time Miss M was without her funds.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to:
Refund £2,000 to Miss M; and
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 14 October 2022 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman