DRN-2328382
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society shouldnt have allowed her ex-partner a 
covid related payment holiday on their joint mortgage as she didnt give her agreement.
What happened
Miss B and her ex-partner started a mortgage with Nationwide in 2018. They borrowed 
approximately £95,500 over 20 years on a capital repayment basis.
Miss B has told us shes going through a separation but both are living in the property. It is 
her intention to retain the mortgage and live in the property with their son. When the covid 
pandemic started, she said they agreed not to take a payment holiday. However, her ex-
partner applied for and was granted a three month payment deferral by Nationwide covering 
the May, June and July 2020 payments. She says she didnt give her permission for this and 
complained to Nationwide towards the end of June 2020.
In its final response to Miss Bs complaint, Nationwide said it was allowing either party on a 
joint mortgage to request a payment deferral and it asks whether all parties have agreed. It 
confirmed that covid related payment deferrals would not impact her credit file. And it said 
she was free to make payments. But it wouldnt remove the agreed payment deferral to 
ensure it didnt put either her or her ex-partner in a vulnerable financial position.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Miss B referred her complaint to us. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She said Nationwides online application for a payment 
deferral asks the applicant to declare that all parties to the mortgage are in agreement. And 
Nationwide sent a letter confirming the payment deferral on 24 April 2020. Our investigator 
also found that, had Nationwide not agreed to the payment deferral, the implications may 
have been worse for Miss B as shed told our investigator she couldnt afford to make the 
payments.
Miss B didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding Miss Bs complaint, Ive thought about whether it was fair for Nationwide to 
proceed with the payment deferral based on the online application it received. And Ive 
thought about whether it should have acted differently when Miss B contacted it  during the 
payment deferral  to say she didnt agree.
At the beginning of the covid 19 pandemic the FCA issued guidance to lenders about how 
they should support mortgage customers experiencing or likely to experience financial 
difficulty as a result of the pandemic. 
The main assistance lenders were expected to offer  both to those borrowers requesting it 
and those borrowers suspected of experiencing covid related financial difficulty  was up to 
three months of payment deferral. 
Lenders were not expected to ask applicants to demonstrate that they were experiencing 
difficulty  instead they were expected to make the application process simple. They were 
also expected to accept applications unless they thought a payment deferral would not be in 
the best interests of the borrower.
Nationwide has provided a system screenshot showing that an application was made online 
for Miss B and her ex-partner to have a payment deferral on 24 April 2020. Nationwide says 
its online payment deferral application asks the applicant to declare that both parties to the 
joint mortgage agree to the application.
Miss B has said shed told Nationwide that she was in dispute with her ex-partner, so it 
shouldnt have accepted the application without her permission. We asked Nationwide about 
that. It said it had no records of any reported dispute between Miss B and her ex-partner. 
And it said the staff member Miss B says she told about this has no recollections of the 
conversation.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have accepted applications for payment 
deferrals on-line, though I do accept that its difficult to verify all parties consent using that 
method. But it is in keeping with the FCA guidance in that the application process shouldnt 
be complicated. So, with that in mind and the likelihood that it would be required to deal with 
many applications efficiently, I dont think it acted unreasonably by allowing on-line 
applications.
I wouldnt expect lenders to assume all separations are acrimonious. Miss B says she told 
Nationwide her and her ex-partner were in dispute, but Ive not seen that Nationwide has a 
record of that. Nationwide has provided a copy of a letter it sent to both parties confirming 
the payment deferral arrangement. Whether she saw this letter or not, she did become 
aware during the payment deferral and complained to Nationwide about it. So, Ive thought 
about its response, particularly its decision not to end the payment deferral early.
Nationwide says it didnt end the payment deferral when Miss B complained because it didnt 
want to place the account holders in a vulnerable financial position. In certain situations, I 
would expect a lender to have placed a stop on a payment deferral having found out both 
parties werent in agreement about it. But Miss B has told us she couldnt have afforded the 
monthly payments. And Nationwide told her she could still make payments. 
As she didnt do that, I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to think about the implications 
of stopping the payment deferral early  particularly as the payment deferral started because 
Miss Bs ex-partner said he was affected financially by the pandemic. Had the payment 
holiday been cancelled, unless Miss B was able to make the payments, the mortgage would 
have been reported as being in arrears. Which would have affected all parties to the 
mortgage. Im not persuaded Miss B has lost out as a result of the payment holiday being 
granted. So, I dont think it acted unfairly by not ending the payment deferral early.
Overall, I think the need to act efficiently, in the circumstances of the pandemic did lead to 
Miss B not having her wishes for her mortgage account adhered to. And I understand her 
frustration about this, given what shes told us about the motivations she suspects of her ex-
partner. But I think Nationwide did act in her best interests, given that the alternative may 
have meant mortgage arrears on her account and adverse information on her credit file. I 
also think, in acting as it did, Nationwide followed the spirit of the FCAs covid guidance.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman