DRN-4070498
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd declined a partial settlement offer. 
Mrs F also complains that when she asked for a copy of her loan agreement Lantern sent 
her the wrong documents. 
What happened
Mrs F had a loan with another business Ill call B that was sold to Lantern in May 2018. 
Mrs F agreed to make payments of £100 a month that were used to reduce the outstanding 
balance. 
Mrs F has told us that in January 2022 Lantern offered to accept a partial settlement for her 
loan. Mrs F didnt take Lantern up on its offer at the time. 
In November 2022 Mrs F contacted Lantern and advised she was having difficulties making 
payments of £100 a month. Mrs F asked Lantern to accept a settlement offer of £1,750, 
around half the outstanding balance. Lantern declined Mrs Fs settlement offer. Lantern said 
it could complete an income and expenditure assessment with a view to agreeing a new 
payment arrangement. 
Mrs F has told us that after Lantern rejected her offer, she requested a copy of the credit 
agreement associated with her loan. Lantern contacted the original lender (B) and was sent 
copies of loan agreements in Mrs Fs name. But Lantern forwarded the wrong loan 
agreement and associated information to Mrs F. Mrs F has explained that the information 
and amounts included in Lanterns response didnt tally with her records and made it appear 
as if shed overpaid. So Mrs F went back to Lantern. 
Lantern sent Mrs F a final response in January 2023. Lanterns final response apologised for 
sending Mrs F the wrong loan information and provided the correct documents. Lantern also 
advised that it wasnt willing to accept a partial settlement for the outstanding balance. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Fs complaint. They agreed Lantern had sent 
Mrs F the wrong loan documents but felt its apology was a fair way to resolve Mrs Fs 
complaint. The investigator didnt think Lantern had acted unfairly by declining Mrs Fs partial 
settlement offer. 
Mrs F asked to appeal and said shed had to complain to Lantern after receiving the wrong 
loan documents last year. Mrs F also said Lantern had previously offered a discounted 
settlement figure in January 2022 but now claimed that approach wasnt possible. As Mrs F 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has explained that after Lantern rejected her settlement offer it sent her the wrong 
loan agreement and documents which made it appear as if shed overpaid. I can understand 
why Mrs F was upset at being sent the wrong information. Lanterns explained that it 
contacted B to request the loan agreement Mrs F had asked for. But B sent across two loan 
agreements, one was for a loan Mrs F had previously held. And when Lantern forwarded 
information to Mrs F it sent her the wrong loan agreement.
I dont doubt this caused confusion, but I think its reasonable to note that Lanterns final 
response apologised and explained how the issue had come about. I agree it was 
unfortunate that Lantern sent the wrong documents but Im satisfied that it went on to supply 
the correct information. And Im satisfied Lanterns apology was a fair way to resolve this 
part of Mrs Fs complaint. 
Mrs F has told us she feels Lantern has been inconsistent in terms of the information 
provided about accepting partial settlements. Mrs F has advised that in January 2022 
Lantern offered a partial settlement. But when she made a similar offer in November 2022 
Lantern ultimately responded to say it couldnt approve partial settlements on loans that 
originated with B. I take Mrs Fs point and understand why she feels Lanterns position has 
pivoted. But Mrs F didnt take Lantern up on the partial settlement offer in January 2022. 
Mrs F asked Lantern to accept £1,750 in November 2022, around half the outstanding 
balance. Lanterns confirmed it considered the offer but wont accept a partial settlement on 
Mrs Fs loan. I appreciate that differs from the previous information Mrs Fs told us she was 
given. But we cant force a business to accept a partial settlement and Lantern has 
confirmed its position. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F but I havent been persuaded Lantern 
dealt with her partial settlement request unfairly. 
When Mrs F told Lantern she was struggling to maintain the existing repayment plan of £100 
a month it offered to complete an income and expenditure assessment to look at other 
affordable options. I can see Lanterns final response asked Mrs F to contact it to discuss a 
payment plan to resume repayments. Id expect any new repayment plan to be affordable for 
Mrs F following a review of her circumstances by Lantern. If Mrs F hasnt done so already, 
she can contact Lantern directly to discuss repayment options. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F but I havent been persuaded to uphold her complaint. Whilst I 
agree the service from Lantern couldve been better at times, overall, Im satisfied it dealt 
with Mrs Fs complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman