DRN-3495800
The complaint
Mr L complains Santander UK Plc has failed to honour a claim he brought under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 May 2022 and invited both parties to 
provide me with any further submissions they wanted me to consider by 31 May 2022. 
Due to the detail to which I went into various topics in the provisional decision, I think its 
appropriate to reproduce that decision more or less in full below:
What happened
Mr L had a timeshare-like product with a company I will call C. In March 2017 he 
entered an agreement with another company, R, under which he says R promised 
to release him from his timeshare obligations with C, and carry out a compensation 
claim for the alleged mis-sale of the timeshare to him by C, which would gain him 
tens of thousands of pounds. The agreement with R came with a guarantee that Mr L 
would be released from his timeshare obligations within 12 months, or he would be 
entitled to all his money back.
The agreement itself was signed on 5 March 2017. Mr L was expected to pay £2,446 
on the day, and then a further £5,708 within a week. He made a £2,446 payment on his 
Santander credit card, which was not taken by R, but by another company which Ill call 
MRLL. Mr L then paid the balance using a credit card from another bank.
Mr L says R didnt release him from his timeshare obligations, nor did it pursue a 
compensation claim for him or refund his money. R went into liquidation later in 
2018.
In January 2019 Mr Ls CMC wrote to Santander setting out a claim on his behalf under 
section 75 of the CCA. The claim focused on alleged misrepresentation by R, 
specifically that it had told Mr L that it would pursue a compensation claim against C 
when it had no intention of doing so. Santander rejected the claim, noting that Mr Ls 
credit card payment had been made to MRLL, not R, and this meant the necessary 
conditions for a section 75 claim to be made hadnt been fulfilled. Mr L complained 
about Santanders decision, but in a final response letter of April 2019, the bank 
maintained that its stance was correct.
Mr L then referred his complaint to this service for an independent assessment. The 
most recent assessment by one of our investigators noted that R and MRLL had been 
associates at the time Mr L made his credit card payment, and this meant the 
technical conditions required for a section 75 claim to be made had been established. 
He further concluded that R had breached its contract with Mr L by not refunding his 
money under the 12 month money back guarantee. Santander disagreed with the 
investigators conclusions regarding associates, and asked that the complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no automatic obligation on a credit card issuer to provide redress where one 
of its customers uses its facilities to make a purchase, and something then goes 
wrong with that purchase. However, there are typically two avenues via which the 
credit card issuer can help, or may have a legal liability.
One such avenue is usually called chargeback, and it involves the card issuer 
disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme operated 
by the companies which run the card networks, such as Visa and Mastercard. Any 
such dispute is subject to the rules of the card scheme operators, and these rules say 
that disputes need to have been brought within a certain period of time. I would 
normally expect a credit card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there was a reasonable 
prospect of this achieving a successful outcome.
Our investigator concluded, and I agree, that by the time Mr Ls situation was brought 
to Santanders attention, it was too late for the bank to raise a chargeback for the 
amount he had paid on the Santander card. This is because the relevant rules say 
that such a dispute must be made within 120 days of the last date the cardholder 
expected to receive the service in question. According to the contract with R, Mr L 
should have received the timeshare release service by 5 March 2018. If he didnt 
receive this service, he was then entitled to his money back, although there was no 
specific timescale mentioned regarding when such a refund would be paid. R went 
into liquidation on 11 June 2018. Regardless of whether one accepts 5 March 2018 or 
11 June 2018 as the last date Mr L could have expected to receive a service from R, 
Santander was not made aware of the problem until January 2019, which would have 
been much too late for the bank to attempt a chargeback within the relevant scheme 
rules.
The other main avenue via which a card issuer may have a responsibility to a 
consumer is via section 75 of the CCA. This gives a consumer a legal right to claim 
against their credit card issuer in respect of any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services purchased using a credit card, 
so long as certain technical criteria have been met.
In Mr Ls case, Santander argue that the technical criteria have not been met. This is 
because his credit card payment was made to MRLL, but he had entered a contract 
with R. This, the bank says, means the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement is not in place for Mr L to make a claim.
The DCS agreement is one of the technical criteria which needs to be in place for a 
successful section 75 claim to be made. It is commonly explained in the following terms: 
that when someone makes a payment on their credit card, in order to make a section 
75 claim against their credit card issuer they generally need to have used their credit 
card to pay the
same company they say has misrepresented something to them, or breached its 
contract with them.
It is not quite as simple as that however. And in this case the interaction between various parts of the CCA, and the implications of this for a section 75 claim, are in 
dispute. I think it would be helpful therefore if I set out in some detail the relevant 
aspects of the CCA and exactly what the disputed technical criteria are.
Analysis of Section 75
Section 75 of the CCA is worded as follows:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
This section refers back to sections 12(b) and (c) of the CCA, which define the DCS 
agreement. A payment on a credit card falls under section 12(b), and is described as 
follows:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made 
by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
Section 11(1)(b), which is referred to, expands as follows:
A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement

(b)to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other 
than the creditor
Reading all of these relevant sections together, it can be seen that in order for a person 
to be able to bring a claim against their credit card issuer under section 75, the credit 
card needs to have financed a transaction between them and a supplier. There also 
need to have been pre-existing arrangements between the creditor and the supplier.1 
Finally, the person needs to have a claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
The problem therefore with having a credit card payment go to someone other than 
the supplier, is that the payment will not have been made by the creditor under pre-
existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between himself 
and the supplier. The payment will have been made instead under the pre-existing 
arrangements between the creditor and the actual payee. This means there would be 
no DCS agreement in place and therefore one of the necessary components for a 
section 75 claim to be made would be missing.
Our investigators view was that R and MRLL were associates, as defined by section 184
1 It is worth highlighting that the courts have found pre-existing arrangements do not 
necessarily have to be a direct agreement between the supplier and the creditor. In a series of 
cases which ended with OFT v. Lloyds Bank PLC & Ors [2007] UKHL 48, it was held that the fact 
that both the creditor and supplier have used the payment clearing and settlement services 
offered by the card scheme (e.g. Visa or Mastercard) and a merchant bank (acquirer) in order to 
facilitate a payment, was enough to say pre-existing arrangements were in place between them.of the CCA. He concluded this meant it didnt matter that Mr L had entered an 
agreement with one but paid the other. Santander has argued, for reasons Ill outline 
later, that two companies being associates doesnt have any significance with respect 
to a section 75 claim. But Santander has also previously disputed that the companies 
were associates at the time Mr L made his credit card payment to MRLL. Its not clear 
if the bank still disputes this following further commentary by our investigator on this 
point on 5 January 2022. But I have proceeded on the basis that it does dispute that 
the companies were associates at the relevant time. I will return to the question of R 
and MRLL being (or not being) associates later, but first I will comment on the more 
fundamental points raised by Santander about the relevance of the concept of 
associates to the DCS agreement.
Santanders position on the significance of R and MRLL being associates
Santander argues that it isnt relevant, for the purposes of the DCS agreement and 
therefore a claim under section 75 of the CCA, if R and MRLL were associates. Ive 
summarised its arguments below:
In order for a section 75 claim to be made, the debtor needs to have a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier.
Section 189(1) of the CCA defines supplier. This definition doesnt include or 
make reference to an associate of the supplier.
It accepts section 187 of the CCA refers to associates when outlining 
scenarios in which pre-existing arrangements would be held to exist 
between a supplier and a creditor. But it doesnt follow from this that the 
definition of supplier includes associates of the supplier. This is legally 
wrong.
Just because two companies are associates, doesnt mean that a payment to 
one will benefit the other. Receiving the benefit of a payment is a requirement for 
there to be a DCS agreement.
Only the supplier itself, and not an associate, can commit a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation, and cause potential joint liability to fall on the 
creditor.
Ive considered these arguments carefully. Having done so, I think Santander has 
misunderstood how the relevant parts of the CCA work together to cause liability to fall, 
potentially, on a creditor under section 75 of the CCA. I will go on explain why, but in 
order to do so I think it would be helpful first to look at Mr Ls scenario in a little more 
detail to identify the service he had paid for, and who was responsible for providing it.
Analysis of Mr Ls contract
The agreement Mr L entered into is relatively straightforward. He signed a document 
headed terms and conditions, under which R promised, on receipt of a deposit, to 
put into effect our recommendations and take all steps necessary to release you 
from your [timeshare] agreement. R further promised that it would notify you in 
writing as soon as we have obtained your release from the Timeshare Agreement. The 
last clause of the agreement, clause 6, stated: R give a full money back guarantee that 
the relinquishment will be achieved within 12 months of this date. It isnt disputed that 
relinquishment referred to the release of Mr L from his timeshare, and while this date 
was not defined, I think it most likely would be interpreted as the date Mr L signed the contract, or paid the deposit which meant R would begin work. In this case, both these 
dates are the same.
Referring back to section 11(1)(b) of the CCA, the transaction2 financed by the 
Santander credit card was therefore an agreement between Mr L and R, that R would 
release him from his timeshare within a specific timeframe, and refund him in full if that 
timeframe was not achieved. R was the supplier of this service and was therefore the 
supplier for the purposes of section 11(1)(b) and the entity against which Mr L has a 
potential claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Further analysis of Santanders liability
Referring back to my earlier analysis of section 75, the conditions which need to be in 
place for Santander to have potential liability to Mr L can be summarised as follows:
1) Mr Ls Santander credit card has financed a transaction between Mr L 
and the supplier (R).
2) The credit card payments were made under pre-existing arrangements 
between Santander and R (therefore meaning a DCS agreement was in 
place).
3) Mr L has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier 
(R).
My analysis above shows that the first condition has been met: the credit card 
financed a transaction between Mr L and R, it just so happened that R was not the 
payee of the credit card payment which financed that transaction. This calls into 
question whether there were pre-existing arrangements between R and Santander, 
and therefore whether condition 2) is satisfied. The concept of associates, which 
Santander has focused on, is relevant to this.
Section 187 of the CCA, which Santander has referred to, says the following:
187 Arrangements between creditor and supplier.
(1) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance with, 
or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made between persons mentioned in 
subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).

(4)The persons referred to in subsections (1) and (2) are
(a)the creditor and the supplier;
(b)one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)an associate of one and an associate of the others.
The significance of this section of the CCA for Mr Ls case, is that if his credit card 
payments were made in accordance with pre-existing arrangements between 
Santander and an associate of R, then the payments will be treated, under the CCA, as having been made under pre-existing arrangements between Santander and R, thus 
meaning condition 2) would be met. Santander has said section 187 doesnt bring an 
associate of the supplier into the definition of supplier, which is correct. But the 
different sections of the CCA do not stand in isolation, they interact with one another. 
And I think the bank misses the point that it
2 Transaction in this sense means an instance of buying or selling something. The term is often 
using in a banking context to mean a movement of money on an account, but here it has its 
everyday meaning.
is the pre-existing arrangements (or lack thereof) between the creditor and supplier 
which is the key issue where a credit card payment has been made to someone other 
than the supplier. Section 187s effect is that for the purposes of pre-existing 
arrangements only, the supplier and an associate of the supplier can be considered, in 
essence, one and the same.
MRLL was able to accept Mr Ls Santander credit card due to it and the banks mutual 
participation in the relevant card scheme. As I explained in footnote 1, the courts have 
found that such arrangements are sufficient to conclude pre-existing arrangements are 
in place between a creditor and a payee. It follows that Mr Ls payment was made in 
accordance with pre-existing arrangements between Santander and MRLL and, due to 
the operation of section 187 of the CCA, that I must deem the payment as having been 
made under pre- existing arrangements between Santander and R also. Condition 2) 
above has therefore been met.
Were R and MRLL associates at the relevant time?
Unfortunately for Mr L, having carefully considered the available evidence I am not of 
the opinion that R and MRLL were associates at the time he made his credit card 
payment on 5 March 2017. This makes the arguments above rather academic in the 
context of Mr Ls case but I think they are important to set out in any event given 
Santanders strong disagreement with the application of the concept of associates.
Ill now explain why I dont think R and MRLL were associates at the relevant time in 
Mr Ls case.
Section 184 of the CCA states the following:
(1) A person is an associate of an individual if that person is
(a)the individuals husband or wife or civil partner,
(b)a relative of
(i)the individual, or
(ii)the individuals husband or wife or civil partner, or
(c)the husband or wife or civil partner of a relative of
(i)the individual, or
(ii)the individuals husband or wife or civil partner.
(2)A person is an associate of any person with whom he is in partnership, and of the husband or wife or civil partner or a relative of any individual with whom he is in 
partnership.
(3)A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate
(a)if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and 
persons who are his associates, or he and persons who are his associates, are 
controllers of the other; or
(b)if a group of two or more persons is a controller of each company, and the groups 
either consist of the same persons or could be regarded as consisting of the same 
persons by treating (in one or more cases) a member of either group as replaced by a 
person of whom
(c)
he is an associate.

It can be seen that the definition of associates is broad and not without complexity. 
However, the following points are relevant to Mr Ls case.
Firstly, I think its important to define the concept of controller. Controller is defined in 
section 189(1) of the CCA. A person will be said to control a company if they are a 
person in accordance with whose instructions the officers of a company would act, of if 
they control more than a third of the voting power at any general meeting of the 
company.
The company Mr L entered an agreement with was R. As of 5 March 2017, the sole 
director and shareholder of R was a Mr W. I think his position as sole director and 
shareholder means he would qualify as a controller of R. The company Mr L paid using 
his Santander credit card was MRLL. As of March 2017, a man I will call Mr K owned 
more than 50% of the shares of MRLL, and was also its company secretary. According 
to MRLLs articles of association, each share would entitle its holder to one vote at a 
general meeting, meaning Mr K would meet the definition of a controller by virtue of his 
control of more than a third of the voting power at such a meeting.
Section 184(3) says that two companies can be associates if they are controlled by the 
same people, or by people who are themselves associates. On the face of it, because R 
and MRLL were controlled by different people, they were not associates at this time. 
Theres no evidence of Mr W and Mr K having any kind of familial relationship of the 
types listed in section 184(1) which would make them associates, so Ive gone on to 
think about whether the relationship in section 184(2) applies.
Section 184(2) says that if individuals are in partnership, then they are treated as 
being associates of one another. The CCA doesnt define what being in partnership 
means, but as civil partnerships are explicitly mentioned elsewhere, I think it refers to a 
partnership in a business sense. This type of partnership is defined under the 
Partnership Act 1890 as follows:
Definition of Partnership
(1)Partnership is the relation which subsists between persons carrying on a 
business in common with a view of profit.
(2)But the relation between members of any company or association which is [(a) registered under the Companies Act 2006, or]
(b) Formed or incorporated by or in pursuance of any other Act of Parliament or 
letters patent, or Royal Charter. . .
(c) . . .:
is not a partnership within the meaning of this Act.
There is evidence available that Mr K and Mr W were, in some way, doing 
business together. But I do not think that this shows they were in partnership 
according to the statutory definition.
For example, I am aware that a third company, RIG, continued to be controlled by Mr K
and Mr W together as of 5 March 2017. Mr K owned half of the shares jointly with his 
wife, while Mr W owned the other half and was additionally the sole director. Both had 
control of more than a third of the voting rights at a general meeting and would 
therefore meet the definition of controllers of RIG.
I have considered whether this joint control of a third company would mean that Mr K 
and Mr W were in partnership and therefore associates. But I note the Partnership Act 
1890 specifically excludes the relation between members of a company registered 
under the Companies Act 2006. This means shareholders in a company, controlling or 
not, would not be considered in partnership with one another on this basis.
There is other evidence of Mr K and Mr W doing business together. R granted a 
debenture in favour of Mr K and his wife, for example. But all this appears to show is 
that R probably owed Mr K and his wife money. Another of Mr Ks companies also 
appeared to provide accountancy services for R, but this also does not show that Mr 
K and Mr W were in partnership. It only shows that R was paying for accountancy 
services from one of Mr Ks companies.
Overall, I have not seen enough evidence to show that Mr K and Mr W were in 
partnership in the sense meant in section 184 of the CCA. This means that, as of 5 
March 2017 when Mr L made his credit card payment, R and MRLL were not 
associates.
Other potential routes to liability for Santander
The fact that R and MRLL were not associates is not necessarily fatal to Mr Ls claim 
against the bank. A supplier and payee being associates is not the only way in which 
pre-existing arrangements can still be held to exist in a scenario where the supplier and 
payee are not the same.
Another way in which pre-existing arrangements could be held to exist was identified 
in the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred Truman [2005] EWHC 583 QB.
The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor trader as a client. The solicitors 
took credit card payments from customers of the motor trader, which had no facility to 
take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which they had ordered. The court found 
that the contractual arrangements between the motor trader and the solicitors were 
adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme through the transactions 
processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore mean there were pre-
existing arrangements between them and the creditor and therefore a valid DCS agreement.
The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that there were problems with applying 
this conclusion as a general principle, and there were difficulties in establishing where 
the line should be drawn between scenarios where pre-existing arrangements should 
be considered to exist, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw such a 
conclusion. The judge went on to say that the problem would need to be resolved on a 
case by case basis, and the precise contractual arrangements between the parties 
would determine whether the creditor had any liability under section 75.
In a later County Court case, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], the 
judge considered Alfred Truman in a slightly different context. In this case company A 
had contracted with a consumer to supply and install solar panels, but an unrelated 
company B had taken the credit card payments. The precise nature of the 
arrangements between the companies was not known, but company A had invoiced 
company B after the latter had taken payment. It was also established that company B 
was the supplier of the solar panels themselves. The judge found that company B had 
an interest in the supply and installation of
the solar panels and this was sufficient for pre-existing arrangements to be in place 
between company A and the creditor.
The conclusion I draw from this is that, in the absence of precise knowledge of the 
contractual arrangements between the supplier and the payee, the involvement of the 
payee in the provision of the services under the contract between the debtor and the 
supplier, should be sufficient for me to be able to conclude there were pre-existing 
arrangements between the supplier and the creditor.
Applying this reasoning to Mr Ls case, Ive seen no evidence that MRLL was involved 
in the provision of the services Mr L had contracted with R for, so I dont think the case 
of Marshall is of assistance to Mr L here. And my view is that we simply dont know 
enough about any agreements between R and MRLL to be able to say that pre-existing 
arrangements must be held to exist between R and Santander, in the same way as 
Alfred Truman.
In the Alfred Truman case the judge had the benefit of much more detailed information 
about the contractual arrangements between the solicitors and the motor trader. The 
information we have been able to obtain about R and MRLL has been inconclusive, 
despite attempts to contact the liquidators or R and MRLL, and individuals connected to 
the companies. Its clear there was a relationship between the companies. If there was 
not then I would not have expected MRLL to take payments for Rs customers. But I 
dont have enough information to establish just what the precise contractual 
arrangements were between them, and so I cant fairly reach a conclusion that these 
arrangements were the same as, or similar to, those in the Alfred Truman case.
This means I dont think the principles flowing from the cases of Alfred Truman and 
Marshall would allow me to conclude pre-existing arrangements existed between R and 
Santander for the purposes of Mr Ls claim.
Overall conclusions
I appreciate this will come as a great disappointment to Mr L especially as he has 
been waiting for an answer for such a long time, but I dont think he had a valid 
claim against Santander under section 75 of the CCA. It follows that I dont think 
the bank treated him unfairly in declining his claim and so his complaint should not be upheld.
I understand that Rs liquidators have been able to recover a significant sum from 
an ex-director of the company, so it is possible Mr L would receive a dividend if he 
has made a claim in the liquidation. He may wish to explore this option if he has not 
already done so.
The responses to the provisional decision
Santander responded to the provisional decision to say it didnt have anything to add. Mr Ls 
claims management company (CMC) said it didnt agree with the provisional decision and 
made the following points:
 Mr L had actually paid R and not MRLL, it just so happened that MRLL appeared on 
his credit card statement. 
  R and MRLL had a shared director, the Mr K I had mentioned in my provisional 
decision, meaning the companies were linked. 
  The Financial Ombudsman Service had upheld cases with very similar, or the 
same, sets of facts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded by the arguments made by Mr Ls CMC. I dont think it can be correct that 
Mr L actually paid R, and it just so happened that the name of a different limited company 
appeared on his credit card statement.
While it is sometimes the case that the name which appears on a credit card statement will 
just be a trading name of the entity actually taking the payment via the card, I dont think 
thats a reasonable conclusion to draw here. R and MRLL were different limited companies, 
so if MRLL appears on a credit card statement then its reasonable to conclude the entity 
taking the payment was MRLL and not R.
Im similarly not persuaded by the CMCs second point. I am aware Mr K was previously a 
controller of R (as well as being a controller of MRLL), but this was not the case, as far as I 
have been able to determine, as of the day Mr L made his credit card payment to MRLL. 
Had this been the case then its likely I would have reached a different set of conclusions.
I gather from broader conversations that Mr Ls CMC believes Mr K was a controller of R for 
longer than the official records on Companies House show. But Ive not seen evidence to 
suggest the official records are inaccurate. Our own enquiries with the liquidators have not 
turned up any information which would support this contention.
Finally, while it may be the case that other similar cases have been successful, it doesnt 
follow that all of them will be. Different cases may have subtle differences in the facts or 
circumstances, and it is also true that as more general information on a topic becomes 
available over time, a similar set of facts and circumstances may lead to a different outcome.
Overall, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, 
which is to say that unfortunately for Mr L I do not think Santander treated him unfairly in declining his section 75 claim. This is because I dont think he had a valid claim for the 
technical reasons I expanded on in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, including the quoted extract from my provisional decision, 
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman