DRN-1804468
 
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by FirstRand Bank Limited, 
trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr C responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
This was a used car and had already completed a little over 10,000 miles at the point 
it was supplied to Mr C. It was also nearly three years old and I would expect 
MotoNovo to take this into account when considering the damage to the car when it 
was returned to them having completed about a further 14,500 miles. 
Ive considered all the photographs of the damage that the inspector identified on the 
car including the damage that MotoNovo have already agreed to waive. I can 
understand why they chose to waive many of the charges they had made as, in 
several areas, I dont think the damage is evidenced i.e. rear and front bumper 
damage. 
I think there is damage to the mirror housing that would be considered beyond fair 
wear and tear under the relevant guidelines as the primer is showing. But I think the 
dent MotoNovo claim the photographs show on the tailgate/boot is not evidenced. I 
can see the striped board, the inspector has used, shows a warped reflection, but I 
think thats because of the contour of the body moulding and not because of a dent. 
Im also not persuaded there is evidence of cracked paint on the rear bumper. I dont 
think the photograph in the inspectors report shows any cracking. So, I think 
MotoNovo should waive the charges they have applied for the dent to the 
tailgate/boot of £185 and the cracked bumper paintwork of £125. 
That leaves a charge of £42 for the damage to the mirror housing and I think the 
fairest resolution would be for MotoNovo to waive that charge too. I say that because 
I cant see theyve considered the fact that this was a used car and some limited 
damage is to be expected.
Putting things right
I think MotoNovo should waive all the charges theyve applied for refurbishment of this car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited to 
waive all remaining charges for refurbishment that theyve applied.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman