DRN-3931626
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) allowed unauthorised 
withdrawals from Mrs Bs account after it had been frozen following her death. 
For ease of reference, I will primarily refer to Mrs N (the executor of her late mothers estate) 
as the complainant throughout this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and are not in dispute, so I will 
not repeat everything again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that I have read and considered everything that has been 
provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the 
following reasons:
I understand that Mrs N is unhappy Metro Bank allowed payments to be made on 3 and 
4 October 2022 after it had agreed to freeze Mrs Bs account on 17 August 2022. Mrs N 
was under the impression that the money could not be touched by anyone else once it 
had been frozen. Metro Bank has explained that it allowed the payments to be made as 
invoices had been submitted by the solicitors that managed Mrs Bs account in 
accordance with the mandate they had been given. So, I dont consider the bank has 
acted unreasonably by processing these payments, but I appreciate things could have 
been handled better here, as Metro could have informed Mrs N of the situation as the 
executor. 
I appreciate Mrs N disagrees that the solicitors should have been able to request 
payment from the account, as she says their authorisation to administer Mrs Bs account 
would have lapsed upon her death. However, even if that were the case, the invoice 
related to fees due for the solicitors administration, and so was still money that wouldve 
always been payable by the estate. Therefore, even if Metro were wrong to have allowed 
the payments to be processed, I cant see that it has ultimately caused any loss to the 
estate. If Mrs N disputes the validity of these payments, she would need to take this up 
directly with the solicitors or the Legal Ombudsman, as this office is unable to consider 
this.
I understand that two standing orders were also paid on 23 May 2022 and 21 June 2022 
to Mrs Bs care home, which was after she had died. However, this was before Metro 
had received the death certificate and had agreed to freeze the accounts, so I dont 
consider the bank has done anything wrong by processing these payments either. 
Metro have acknowledged that it could have provided better service, and has offered £50 
in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. This was in response to its 
failure to respond to Mrs Ns concerns, which I understand would have been frustrating. 
But while it has caused a delay, I dont consider its poor handling of matters to have 
caused anything more that moderate inconvenience. So, Im satisfied that this represents 
fair compensation for the poor service and inconvenience caused to Mrs Bs estate, and I 
wont be asking it to make any further award. 
I acknowledge that Mrs N considers Metro Bank to have acted illegally. But even if that were 
the case  while my role is to take account of the law  it is also to consider what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, which includes considering the impact of any 
wrongdoing by the bank. And in this instance, while I accept that Metro could have handled 
things better, Im not persuaded it needs to take any further action for the reasons Ive stated 
above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman