DRN-4199844
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) trading as Post Office Financial 
Services, wrongly advised her that old cheques she had found had been cashed. 
What happened
Mrs M says she recently discovered several cheques named under a joint account she held 
with her late daughter. The cheques were dated around 10 years ago. After contacting BOI, 
Mrs M was advised that these cheques had been cashed. 
Mrs M complained as she couldnt find any record of the cheques having been cashed. In its 
response, BOI said its records show that all cheques had been cashed. The bank also 
offered her £150 compensation for delays it caused when looking into this matter. Remaining 
unhappy, Mrs M escalated her complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded that BOI had acted fairly. Mrs M doesnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final say on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Understandably, its difficult for BOI to provide detailed information about these cheques. 
The cheques and related activity are dated around 10 years ago, so the banks records are 
limited. I wouldnt expect BOI to have retained detailed records from this period either.
But this means I cant reach conclusions with certainty here, as theres limited information to 
point me to what exactly happened. So my decision is based on what I think is most likely to 
have happened, based on the information and records that BOI and Mrs M have been able 
to provide. 
Mrs M remains adamant that these cheques were never cashed and points to the fact that 
she still has the original cheques to hand. Mrs M adds that shes checked with her relevant 
bank account providers and cannot find a record of the funds depositing any of her accounts. 
However, I havent seen any statements or other records that would lead me to reach the 
same conclusion.
BOIs records show that the cheques were cashed between April and May 2012. The bank 
has provided images of the cheques and the records it has relied on to conclude the 
cheques were cashed around the time. BOI also says the funds appear to have been 
deposited into a bank account held at a third-party bank  the name of which our investigator 
has already shared with Mrs M. Although BOIs records are limited, theres enough for me to 
be persuaded that its more likely than not that the cheques were cashed around the time. 
Mrs M makes a valid point about still being in possession of the original cheques. BOI says 
its records show that the original cheques were cancelled and later re-issued in Mrs Ms 
name. I find this to be plausible, particularly because Ive seen copies of the re-issued 
cheques solely in Mrs Ms name. So Im satisfied that Mrs M being in possession of these 
cheques isnt a persuasive indicator that the cheques werent cashed around the time. 
BOI acknowledges it caused some delays when looking into this matter and has offered 
Mrs M £150 compensation to put things right. I cant see that the delay caused an 
unreasonable amount of distress and inconvenience to Mrs M  to the point that it would 
make me think that more compensation would be appropriate. So I think the amount already 
offered to Mrs M is fair.
To conclude, it seems more likely to me that the cheques were cashed around the time. So I 
wont be asking that BOI does anything more in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman