DRN-3870527
The complaint
Mr R1 and Mr R2 have complained about their car insurer Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited in respect of advice they received when looking to cancel their policy.
Mr R1 is the main insured on the policy. For ease of reference, my decision will mainly refer 
to him.
What happened
Mr R1 had a policy with Advantage which began in July 2021. In January 2022 he had an 
accident which resulted in his car being severely damaged, such that it had to be replaced. 
The existing policy was updated with the new car details in January 2022 and this resulted in 
the cost of cover increasing.
In the meantime Mr R1 had been deciding whether or not to progress a claim on his cover 
for the accident damaged car. He decided not to go ahead with the claim and Advantage 
agreed to cancel it. But Advantage explained that it had incurred some costs in respect of 
the claim and it would remain as a fault claim on the policy. Mr R1 still wanted to cancel the 
claim and hed also become concerned about the continued cost of cover given the premium 
increase which had resulted from his new car. He asked Advantage to cancel the policy.
In a call with Advantage on 28 February 2021 Mr R1 was told that if he cancelled the cover 
that day, he would only have to pay for the time the cover was in place. Advantages advisor 
noted that the total premium outstanding for the remainder of the year was around £900  
but said that sum would reduce by quite a bit when the cost of cover to date was calculated. 
Based on that advice Mr R1 cancelled the policy. Advantage then wrote to Mr R1 and said 
that he had to pay it £873.78  it later told Mr R1 that if he repaid its claim costs of £740, the 
sum owed for cancelling may reduce. And it said it had been wrong to advise as it had 
during the call on 28 February 2022, so it would pay Mr R1 £100 compensation.
Mr R1 complained to us, He said that he had been misinformed during the call where hed 
disused the cancellation and that £100 compensation didnt make up for the sums he was 
now being asked to pay. He said he shouldnt have to pay that much.
Following our Investigator contacting Advantage, Advantage said it would amend the 
outstanding amount to £180.07. It said this balance covered the policy costs to the date of 
cancellation  rather than the total cost of cover for the year.
Our Investigator looked at the amended cost, and the £100 compensation Advantage had 
paid. He felt that whilst Advantage had failed Mr R1 in the advice it had given, that equated 
to a fair and reasonable remedy. Mr R1 asked for an Ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage accepts that it misled Mr R1 about what he could expect to pay if he cancelled 
the policy. And what Advantage asked Mr R1 to pay following that advice was far more than 
he had been given to expect. So its understandable he was upset about that, and was 
caused some worry by being asked to pay such a large sum. Especially when his reason for 
cancelling was that he didnt feel he could afford to pay the remaining cost of cover with 
Advantage for the new car.  
I then have to think about what is needed to make up for that failure. 
Mr R1 was happy to cancel based on the advice he did receive  which was that he would 
be charged for the time the cover was in place. And whilst he didnt know what that final sum 
would be, he expected it would be much less than the £900 figure discussed at the time. 
Clearly the initial charge by Advantage of £873.78 was not in line with that expectation  
although it was, strictly speaking, in line with what the policy would have allowed it to charge. 
However, Advantage has now said it will reduce the final charge to £180.07. I think that is in 
line with what Mr R1 could reasonably have expected to pay given the advice he actually 
received and acted upon. So I think amending the final charge to £180.07 is a fair and 
reasonable offer of remedy in the circumstances.
Advantage also paid £100 compensation for the upset caused by its misleading advice. 
I know that Mr R1 has been worried about what Advantage was asking him to pay  but from 
what I can see Advantage hasnt been demanding payment of that sum from Mr R1, rather it 
seems Advantage knew Mr R1 was contesting that and dealt with his complaint in that 
respect, which resulted in Mr R1 coming to us and Advantage amending its position on the 
outstanding sum. But there was also still some frustration caused to Mr R1 because all of 
this was caused by Advantages poor advice. I think that £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im satisfied that Advantage Insurance Company Limited failed 
Mr R1 and Mr R2 but that its offer of resolution is fair and reasonable. As such I require 
Advantage to amend the outstanding sum to £180.07 as offered. If the £100 compensation 
has already been paid, then it wont need to pay that again.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R1 and Mr R2 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman