DRN-3950914
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr S holds with Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. Hes unhappy that Barclays delayed a rate switch by several months in 2020, and 
then later reported arrears on his credit file when payments werent made. The credit file 
was later amended, but Mr S says this delayed his purchase of another BTL property with 
a mortgage with a different lender. Mr S is represented here by a third party organisation 
Ill refer to as C.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 24 January 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the 
evidence in the case is immensely detailed, running to around 2,500 pages of 
documents. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence 
are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of 
duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. 
In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than 
has been presented. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because 
Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of 
me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and 
not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my 
opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader 
outcome. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr S being identified. Instead Ill give a summary in my own 
words (and rounding the figures where relevant) and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mr S has several BTLs with Barclays. This complaint is about one of them, an 
account Ill reference as 933. Hed been paying a little over £400 a month on an 
interest rate deal that was due to end in February 2020. He requested a new rate in 
good time through his broker but Barclays didnt implement it until June 2020, 
backdated to March 2020. This created a credit on the mortgage account. In the 
meantime, the monthly payments had gone up to over £1,000 a month in March 
2020, which Mr S was struggling with, so in June 2020  unaware that Barclays 
was working with his broker to put the new rate in place  he cancelled his direct 
debit. 
The new monthly payment following the delayed rate switch was around £315, and in 
the absence of a direct debit, Barclays used the pre-paid credit that was created by 
the back-dating until it was all used up. Once the pre-paid credit was used up, and 
with no direct debit in place for monthly payments to resume, the mortgage fell into 
arrears, and Barclays reported this on Mr S credit file. This was in the spring on 
2021, and unfortunately, it coincided with Mr S trying to get a mortgage from lender P 
to buy another BTL. 
Mr S eventually succeeded with his purchase, but by the time he completed on the 
transaction, the government rules on Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) had changed and 
he had to pay additional SDLT of around £4,700 on his new property. Part of his 
complaint is that if the problem with Barclays reporting on his credit file hadnt 
happened, hed have completed before the SDL rules changed, and avoided incurring 
the extra bill.
Mr S engaged C in his complaint: in December 2021, C provided us with a detailed 
analysis of the impact on Mr S of what happened; hes seeking redress for losses 
made up as follows:
£3,000 lost rent on the new BTL;
£4,700 extra SDLT;
Over £7,000 for time Mr S spent on the matter, taking him away from his primary 
business; and
£1,000 towards Cs bill for representing him in the complaint.
C also said Barclays should compensate Mr S for distress, inconvenience, pain and 
suffering, and loss of reputation; albeit this aspect of the claim wasnt initially 
quantified. C later told us that that the full value of Mr S claim including 
compensation, was £25,000.
Our first investigator largely rejected the complaint, not least because Mr S had 
cancelled his direct debit without any prior discussion with Barclays, and knew he 
didnt have a valid payment mandate in place. But she did agree that Barclays had 
unduly delayed the rate switch in early 2020, and recommended Barclays pay Mr S 
£100 compensation. Barclays accepted this, but C didnt. 
Early in 2022, the first investigator left the service and a new one took over the case. 
He issued his own assessment of the case in February 2022, after taking account of 
all the evidence from both sides, and Cs detailed responses to the first investigators 
assessment. Other than recommending compensation of £400 rather than £100, his 
view of the case was broadly the same. Again, Barclays accepted this, but C didnt.
The investigator revisited the case again; in April 2022, he issued another 
assessment of the case, this time recommending that Barclays remove the adverse 
entries it had placed on Mr S credit file. His reasoning was that Barclays hadnt 
informed Mr S it had been using the pre-paid credit to cover the monthly instalments 
in the absence of a direct debit, and also didnt warn him in advance when this would 
run out and that hed need to set up a new mandate.
Barclays agreed to remove one (out of three) of the adverse entries; it said the others 
should remain as they reported payments made after Mr S had become aware of the 
problem and spoken to the bank in March 2021. These were made after their 
respective due dates, even though the bank had reminded him in the call when 
payments needed to be made. Meanwhile, C argued that if Barclays should be required to remove the adverse 
entries, it followed that it must compensate Mr S for the loss he incurred as a 
consequence of the adverse entries being there in the first place. Initially, he said that 
meant paying the full claim of £25,000, but subsequently invited Barclays to settle for 
a revised sum of £8,000, plus clearance of the credit file. It said that if we required 
any further submission, that would add £3,500 back to the value of the claim. 
C also said Mr S had made a subject access request (SAR) of Barclays, and the case 
should not be referred to an ombudsman before Mr S had received the results. If it 
did end up being referred to an ombudsman, the full claim of £25,000 would be 
reinstated. In the meantime, we put the proposed settlement of £8,000 to Barclays to 
consider, and the bank declined it. Barclays also made it clear that it would not offer 
any payment to settle Cs bill, as Mr S had chosen to use C rather than bring the 
complaint himself.
At the end of May 2022, the investigator revised his view again, to say only the first 
adverse entry should be removed from Mr S credit file. He agreed with Barclays that 
the other two entries were justified, because the related to payments made after Mr S 
had resumed paying, but which arrived later than due. C wanted the case to continue 
but needed more time to compile information from another SAR made to the bank. In 
August 2022, it was agreed we would close the case, on the premise that wed 
reopen it if C contacted us with a substantive final argument by 7 October 2022. We 
subsequently extended that to the end of October 2022, due the amount of time 
Barclays took to reply to the new SAR.
When that new deadline wasnt met, C asked that we include Barclays handling of 
the new SAR into the complaint. We explained why we couldnt do that. When the 
SAR response eventually reached C, it wasnt happy with the content of it, and 
contacted the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), Meanwhile, C sent us what it 
had received from Barclays, which ran to around 220 pages of material. 
In November 2022, C made an SAR to this service, which he subsequently cancelled. 
On 30 November 2022, C made a final submission for consideration by an 
ombudsman. Much of the final submission covered Cs dissatisfaction with the way 
Barclays handled the two SARs; but it also provided Mr S perspective on the phone 
call in March 2021. C also reset the value of Mr S claim at £11,000, £10,000 for him 
and £1,000 as a contribution to its fees.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill start with some general observations. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor 
are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an 
informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to 
resolve their differences. A great deal of what C has said in its submissions is about Barclays internal systems and processes, but theyre regulatory matters that fall 
outside my remit.
At one stage, C said to our investigator that we are all representing [Mr S]. Thats 
not true; C represents Mr S; our service doesnt represent either party. Were 
impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual 
question or issue thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by 
a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, 
C is bringing the complaint on behalf of Mr S.
But I must explain that, although C represents Mr S, it is Mr S that is Barclays 
customer. Cs role is to bring the complaint on Mr S behalf, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a 
complaint. But this does not entitle C to air his own grievances about Barclays, 
because it is not Barclays customer; Cs role is limited to putting forward Mr S 
complaint. 
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed, as 
here) we reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on 
the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil 
cases.
C has argued that certain evidence supplied by Barclays is inadmissible and should 
be disregarded. I appreciate the sentiment and the strength with which it has been 
made, but thats our judgement to make. One side cannot dictate what we should do 
with evidence from the other side; that goes back to what I said earlier about us not 
taking instructions from the parties, and not being interfered with in our investigations. 
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, from both sides, and decide how much 
weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual 
documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on 
the whole picture. Also, we dont, generally speaking, involve ourselves in complaints 
about SARs, as they are firstly the preserve of the ICO. 
Its for me to decide if the arguments and evidence before me are enough for me to 
determine the complaint fairly. Having read everything that both parties have said and 
provided, Im satisfied I have all I need to reach a fair conclusion. 
Ive considered everything that both parties have said and provided; having done so, 
its apparent that the case is much simpler than it has been made to look. Ill explain 
why.
There are two broad elements to the case; 
the mishandling of the product switch in 2020; and 
the use of the pre-paid credit created by the back-dated product switch to cover 
monthly payments up the point where it ran out in 2021 followed by adverse 
reporting on Mr S credit file.
On the first point, its common ground, and accepted by all, that Barclays messed up 
the product transfer. It should have taken effect in March 2020, but didnt go through until June 2020; albeit when it did go through, it was back-dated. Its entirely 
appropriate that Barclays should compensate Mr S for the delays and poor 
communication, and Ill come back to that in due course.
On the second point, C has described Lloyds use of the pre-paid credit as stealing; if 
it thinks thats true, it should call the police, as stealing is a crime. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not a part of the criminal justice system and we dont make 
findings on what is legal or illegal. Only a court can do that. 
Our remit is to deal with maladministration and/or unfair treatment in the provision of 
financial services; as reviewing ombudsman, I have to assess not just what Barclays 
did - or failed to do  but also what impact that had. Just as importantly, I have to 
consider what Mr S did  or failed to do  to mitigate that impact.
Whilst the product switch was eventually put through in June 2020; a significant point 
in the case is about when Mr S knew this had happened. Barclays has indicated that 
it told Mr S broker the switch had happened; if it did, then I have no remit here to 
consider whether the broker did or didnt relay that information to Mr S. This 
complaint is about Barclays, not the broker. 
C maintains Mr S only found out the switch had happened in August 2020, and has 
attached a high degree of importance to a phone call recording that it says proves 
this. Regardless of which party is to blame, Im quite happy to accept that Mr S only 
knew for the first time in August 2020 that his product transfer had gone through in 
June 2020. However, and despite Cs detailed and forensic arguments, thats not the 
issue on which the outcome of the complaint turns. Rather, it turns on what Mr S did 
(or didnt do) after he found out in August 2020 that the product transfer had finally 
been successful. I say that because Mr S had cancelled his direct debit in June 2020, 
so he knew (or should have known)  without Barclays having to tell him  that the 
monthly payments werent being made in the way they should. 
That should immediately have caused Mr S to wonder how the payments were being 
made. I agree Barclays should have done more to communicate what was going on, 
but when no information was forthcoming from Barclays it was incumbent on Mr S to 
make his own enquiries. Aside from his primary occupation, Mr S is a portfolio 
landlord; hes running that portfolio as a business. One of the responsibilities of 
managing a business is to ensure that any and all business debts are being paid as 
they should be. C has talked of Mr S being totally reliant, implicitly and explicitly, on 
professional advisors and his bank. But Barclays is not Mr S professional advisor and 
its not the banks job to manage his BTL business. Its job is to administer his 
accounts (here the relevant account being the current account he used for his direct 
debits) in accordance with his instructions.
The moment Mr S knew the product transfer had gone through, it was his 
responsibility to contact the bank to effect a new direct debit mandate. No one else 
was obliged to do that; indeed, no one else could do that. The new mandate had to 
come from Mr S, and when he didnt provide one, it was inevitable that the pre-paid 
credit created by the backdating of the product switch would gradually dissipate over 
time as each successive monthly instalment was debited but not paid. It was also 
inevitable that the mortgage would eventually go into arrears if Mr S didnt take any 
action.
None of that would have happened if Mr S had acted immediately to provide a new 
direct debit as soon as he knew the product switch had gone through. He had every 
reason to do so, and no reason not to. Cs claim on Mr S behalf, including the amending of his credit file, is reliant on there being an unbroken chain of causation 
between the delayed product switch in 2020 and the arrears that formed (and were 
reported on Mr S credit file) in 2021. I appreciate this wont sit well with Mr S, or with 
C, but the unavoidable truth, however unwelcome it might be, is that due to Mr S not 
taking the initiative and pro-actively managing the situation in August 2020, that chain 
doesnt exist.  
In summary, Mr S complaint succeeds on the first point, but fails on the second. That 
means I can only fairly award him compensation for his time, trouble and upset due to 
Barclays not processing the product switch promptly. 
This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things 
differently, especially in the moment. But I have to assess things objectively. When I 
do that, I find an award of £400 compensation to be fair in all the circumstances. As 
we have explained previously, we dont generally compensate peoples time by 
reference to a professional hourly rate. Nor do we generally reimburse any costs 
incurred by the use of a third party to present the complaint. We take the view that 
complainants using a third party do so from choice, and as Ive said, this wasnt, in 
reality, a complicated matter. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. I can see from its submissions the intensity with which 
C has brought the complaint. It sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything the 
bank has done (or not done). 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular 
viewpoint, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies 
and/or anomalies in what both sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look 
at things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae and focussing 
on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, I cant find in Mr S 
favour to the degree C believes I should, however much Mr S would like me to.
I gave the parties two weeks two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done 
so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. However, I will address Cs further 
comments, starting with one about how much Mr S had been paying per month before the 
rate switch. 
When I talked in the provisional decision of Mr S paying around £400 per month, that was 
clearly a reference to the period before the previous fixed rate ended. Im aware it went up 
after the expiry date, and acknowledged as much when I said: In the meantime, the monthly payments had gone up to over £1,000 a month in 
March 2020....
I take entirely the point C makes about the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
extraordinary circumstances that existed at the time, and that if allowances are to made for 
changes in Barclays business behaviour, they should be made for changes in Mr S 
business behaviour too. I agree with that latter observation too, but it doesnt really help 
Mr S case, because, when his calls werent answered, Mr S didnt change his behaviour. 
I cant be sure if all branch contact was completely ruled out by lockdown restrictions for the 
entire period there was no direct debit. But even if it was, I dont agree that the phone was 
the only means at Mr S disposal to contact the bank to restore his direct debit. When his 
calls went unanswered, instead of giving up trying (Cs words) its quite reasonable to 
conclude that he could have gone onto Barclays website, registered to manage his 
account(s) online, and restored the direct debit that way.
For the most part, Cs further comments on how the pre-paid credit was used arent new. 
Essentially, they mirror the argument already made, and which Id already considered when I 
reached my provisional conclusion. Yes, the credit was created retrospectively as a 
consequence of action taken to remedy a mistake, but it was still a pre-paid credit. And, yes, 
the bank did say in an email on May 2020 that the pre-paid credit would be refunded, but 
that was before Mr S cancelled the direct debit. In the end the hole in Mr S bank account 
that C refers to was ultimately filled by the pre-paid credit being used to over the monthly 
payments after the direct debit was cancelled and not reinstated.
C says Barclays withheld a reminder that Mr S direct debit had been cancelled. But if I take 
what C says about Mr S many attempts to reinstate the direct debit by phone on face value, 
he didnt need a reminder, because clearly he already knew. C also questions why Barclays 
didnt alert Mr S in advance that the pre-payment was about to run out. C believes the bank 
was obligated to do this, but Im afraid I have to return to the central point that ensuring the 
monthly payments were made was Mr S obligation, not Barclays.
In summary, whilst Cs observation that the devil is in the detail is often the case, on this 
occasion the reality is more straightforward. Theres no dispute Barclays failed to implement 
the rate switch on time, or did enough to make sure Mr S knew it had been implemented. 
Ive upheld that aspect of the complaint and assessed what I consider to be fair redress for 
that. The reason I wasnt persuaded to award more was because I didnt consider there was 
an unbroken chain of causation between the mis-handling of the rate switch and the later 
arrears. That hasnt changed as a result of Cs response to the provisional decision.
Lastly, I explained the limit of my remit in the provisional decision. C has said that the FCA 
only deals in multiple cases, and that the only real route to a remedy is via this service or the 
law. My remit is what my remit is, and I cant act outside it by commenting on regulatory 
matters. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
pay Mr S £400 compensation for his time, trouble and upset arising from the delayed product 
transfer in 2020. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman