DRN-2630347
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with The Co-operative Bank Plcs (The Co-op) automated fraud protection
system on his bank account, following blocked card transactions.
What happened
Mr P first had issues with The Co-Ops anti-fraud system in September 2020. This complaint 
has been dealt with separately by our service. And Id like to confirm no compensation was 
offered to Mr P at this time.
In November 2020, Mr P experienced a similar problem. He was out shopping for the day 
and went to pay for a large food shop, but his card wouldnt work. Mr P tried to complete the 
transaction a few times, but it wouldnt go through. The next day he discovered this was 
because his card had been blocked.
The Co-Op unblocked Mr Ps card the following morning when they spoke and explained 
that the automated fraud system had blocked the card. This was due to the number of 
transactions carried out by Mr P on that day. 
Mr P raised a complaint about this transaction and brought it to our service. He was unhappy 
this was the second time his legitimate transactions had been blocked by the automated 
fraud protection system. He wanted to understand what about his spending pattern or the 
blocked transaction could be construed as fraudulent activity. Mr P explained that he spends 
in this way regularly and spends money in the same shops, so there was nothing unusual 
about his transactions that day  for him. He felt The Co-Op should be improving the system 
with the technologies available, such as algorithms or A.I., so they were more sophisticated 
and personalised.
The Co-Op didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint and didnt want our service to consider it 
separately from the September 2020 complaint. It considered Mr Ps issue was ultimately 
with the automated fraud protection system than specific transactions, so it was two 
instances of one complaint about the same issue.
Our investigator didnt agree with The Co-Op. He explained that as the transactions were 
separate, we should look into them separately too. Our role was to check that the card had 
been legitimately blocked each time, and The Co-Ops reasoning for blocking the two 
transactions was initially different, so he considered there should be two cases. He however 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint, as he was satisfied the anti-fraud system had acted as it 
should have and that The Co-Op didnt need to do anything further.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He explained it still hadnt been 
explained to him why his transaction was blocked, as there was nothing unusual about his 
account activity that day. He explained about his routine and where he shopped, so these 
transactions matched exactly what he, as the legitimate user of the card, did. So the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the reason that The Co-Op has provided for Mr Ps transaction being 
blocked in November 2020  that multiple transactions occurred in a short period. I can see 
from his bank statement that this the case. Ive also then considered Mr Ps argument about 
how and where he spends his funds  and when he does this.
I accept Mr P does have a routine and that for him, this spending wasnt unusual. And due to 
that I do acknowledge his frustration. However, as weve previously set out to Mr P, our 
service doesnt have the power to tell The Co-Op how to apply its anti-fraud protection  or 
to tell it to develop new/more advanced systems. What I can look at is if the block was 
correctly applied, in terms of the tests The Co-Op has set for its automated system; and 
whether these tests are legitimate. And in doing so, Im satisfied The Co-Op has acted fairly. 
While I know this is Mr Ps routine, as I set out on the previous case, his spending does also 
match a common pattern used by fraudsters, as they try and take as much money from the 
account as possible in a small window  due to the likelihood of the card being blocked at 
any time. If The Co-Op didnt block Mr Ps card at all then it could be allowing fraud to take 
place. And if it simply flagged on the system there could be fraud, for an appropriate person 
to then look and see if the spending was unusual or not, again it could be allowing fraud. The 
blocked transaction in this case occurred around 7:30pm. So its likely that if the spending 
was allowed to continue until someone could review Mr Ps accounts to determine if it was 
him, it wouldnt have been picked up until the next day. If this was spending by a fraudster, 
that wouldve given them over 12 hours more to take Mr Ps funds before The Co-Op acted.
I of course understand that in this case it wasnt a fraudster and so appreciate it was a very 
distressing and inconvenient situation for Mr P. But The Co-Op has the automated system in 
place to act instantly in situations where certain patterns of spending happen. And, as Mr P 
is aware, if he provides his mobile number, The Co-Op will send him a text message when 
his card is blocked and then he can unblock it instantly. But as he doesnt want to carry his 
mobile when shopping, it cant do this for him. The Co-Op isnt willing to remove this 
protection from Mr Ps account, which I cant say is unreasonable, as previously set out. And 
so at the moment there isnt another option for Mr P which gives him the protection he 
should have, while allowing him to spend in the way he wants.
While accepting this is a difficult situation for Mr P, I cant say The Co-Op has done 
something wrong. I cant see theres currently a reasonable way it can treat Mr Ps account 
differently, allowing his spending, but also give the instant fraud protection required.
I do understand why The Co-Op considered this complaint a duplicate of the September 
complaint. However, on this occasion, I do think it was appropriate for our service to deal 
with both cases separately, to determine if this was the case. With that said, if Mr P does 
experience the same issue again, for the same reasons, then it is likely our service would 
dismiss any future complaints made about this. Im satisfied that between our service and 
The Co-Op we have set out to Mr P why his transactions are blocked and the options 
available to him to prevent this. It is of course his choice whether to take up these options, or 
even to remain banking with The Co-Op. But if he does stay with The Co-Op and doesnt 
wish to act any differently, then he may be in this situation again and we may not look into a 
complaint about it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman