DRN-3184625
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Crystal Legal Services Limited (Crystal) took almost three years 
to advise her they couldnt help her pursue a claim to recover mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  during which time she had to provide information repeatedly and chase 
Crystal to get updates.
What happened
In early 2017, Mrs H authorised Crystal to act on her behalf to try and recover mis-sold PPI 
from a company Ill call L.  Crystal submitted a data subject access request to L for 
information about the products shed had with them.  
When L didnt respond, Crystal asked Mrs H to sign an up to date authority and re-submitted 
the request.  Crystal asked Mrs H to sign a third authority after she told them the loan she 
had with L had been in joint names with another family member  so a joint authority was 
needed.
L responded, saying they couldnt identify Mrs H from what Crystal had sent.  Crystal 
contacted Mrs H.  But, due to ill health, she didnt reply, and Crystal closed their file.
Some months later, Mrs H contacted Crystal to find out what was happening with her claim.  
She provided additional documents, which Crystal considered.  Having done that, Crystal 
said they couldnt help her because her claim  which was in fact not against L, but another 
company which had sold the PPI - had been investigated in 2012.  But they did offer to pass 
her details to solicitors to see if there was any other way to pursue her claim. 
Four months later, Crystal confirmed they couldnt pursue a claim against L.
Mrs H complained to Crystal about the communication shed received from them during the 
course of trying to pursue her claim.  Crystal investigated and confirmed the claim couldnt 
be pursued because it had been raised in 2012  and the company which had sold the PPI 
hadnt been regulated at the time of sale.
Crystal confirmed Mrs Hs email address and apologised if emails theyd sent hadnt reached 
her.  And they said their communication with her over the phone could have been better.  
And that may have contributed to delay in identifying that there was a joint borrower and that 
a claim had already been made.  Crystal apologised for this but said Mrs H hadnt been 
financially disadvantaged by this.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Crystals reply and brought her complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded Crystal needed to do more to resolve it.  She said it had taken 
Crystal nearly three years to decide they couldnt assist Mrs H and should have checked the 
information theyd had from her far earlier in the claim.  And she was satisfied Mrs H had 
done everything that was asked of her to progress the case.  She thought Crystal should pay 
Mrs H £150 compensation for the delays.
In response to our investigators view, Crystal repeated that their shortcomings hadnt led to 
any financial loss for Mrs H.  And they said that the delays were in part due to Mrs H not 
replying.
Because Crystal didnt accept the investigators view, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Hs frustration.  Its clear from the information Ive reviewed that she 
felt she had a strong claim to recover the PPI payments shed made.  She instructed Crystal 
to help her do that.  It was only three years after those instructions Crystal told her they 
couldnt help.
Its not my role to decide whether Mrs Hs claim should have succeeded.  But I have thought 
about whether Crystal pursued the claim in line with the Claims Management: Conduct of 
Business sourcebook  which is part of the FCA Handbook and known as CMCOB.
The rules require claims management companies (CMC) to investigate the merits of a claim 
before pursuing it and not to pursue a claim that doesnt have a good base.  Id expect that 
investigation to include finding out information such as whether a loan was jointly held and 
whether a previous claim had been made.
From what Ive seen, that didnt happen in relation to Mrs Hs claim.  It was only after Mrs H 
volunteered these pieces of information, months after she first contacted Crystal that Crystal 
advised her they couldnt help.
Before that happened, Mrs H provided information and completed several letters of authority 
when asked to.  I accept that, as Crystal said, there were periods when Mrs H didnt contact 
them.  But I dont think that its fair to say that means Crystal didnt do anything wrong.  I 
agree with them that they delayed in getting the information to decide they couldnt help    
Mrs H.  I dont think thats fair.    
Putting things right
Ive thought about what more Crystal should do to resolve Mrs Hs complaint.  They have 
apologised.  But theyve not offered to do more, because they say what happened didnt 
financially disadvantage her. I agree Mrs H hasnt suffered any financial loss, because the 
claim was considered in 2012  before Crystal was involved.
But our service isnt limited to making an award to compensate for financial losses.  We may 
also make an award if we think what a business has done has caused its customer distress 
and/or inconvenience.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Mrs H was distressed and inconvenienced here.  She 
was repeatedly asked to send information and contacted Crystal to find out what was 
happening over a considerable period of time  only to be told there was no viable claim to 
pursue.  I think Crystal should pay her compensation for that.  And I agree with our 
investigator that £150 is a reasonable amount for what happened here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint about Crystal Legal 
Services Limited and directing them to pay her £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman