DRN-4427807
The complaint
Miss O complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund her 
for a transaction which she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 29 March 2023, Miss O rang Halifax to say there was a transaction on her account which 
she hadnt made. The £178.20 transaction had debited her account on 28 March and was to 
an online booking firm. Miss O told Halifax that shed used that online booking firm in the 
past, but not for a long time. She said that she was the only person with access to her 
account, and no family or friends used the card. She still had her card and hadnt used any 
suspect websites. Halifax provided a temporary credit and investigated. 
Halifax contacted the online booking firm. It replied saying it had compelling evidence that 
Miss O had made the transaction. It provided her name, address, email address, phone 
number, and the IP address (a unique computer identifier) from which the transaction had 
been made.
Halifax saw that the evidence provided by the online booking firm was an exact match for its 
own records about Miss O. It emailed Miss O on 5 April, saying it had matched Miss Os 
name, billing address, email address and IP address to the transaction. So Halifax said it 
would remove the £178.20 it had credited to her account within 10 days unless she had any 
further information for it to consider.
Miss O rang Halifax about the email, and asked if it was a genuine email. Halifaxs adviser 
incorrectly told Miss O that Halifax hadnt sent her the email.
Halifax re-debited Miss Os account with the disputed £178.20 on 20 April. Miss O 
complained.
In Halifaxs final response to Miss Os complaint, it said that the online booking firm had 
provided information which matched her name, home address and email address, as well as 
her IP address, which was the reason why the disputed amount was being re-debited. 
Halifax apologised that its adviser on 5 April had told Miss O that the email wasnt from 
Halifax and she should ignore it, which wasnt correct. Halifax paid Miss O £30 
compensation for the adviser having said the email wasnt from Halifax, when it was. But it 
wouldnt refund her with the disputed £178.20.
Miss O wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Os complaint. She thought it was more likely than not 
that Miss O had authorised the disputed transaction.
Miss O wasnt satisfied. She said that the website was a slightly different address from the 
one which the investigator had said provided the information. The investigator explained the 
relationship between the two names. Miss O sent a document which she said showed her 
booking history for that site. 
But the investigator wasnt persuaded. She said that the booking had been made from the IP 
address which Miss O used for her online banking. And Miss O had said her phone was 
password protected and no one else had access to it. The investigator said shed seen 
evidence which showed that the booking had been made using Miss Os genuine 
information, and all details and confirmation of the booking had been sent to Miss O at that 
genuine contact details. 
Miss O didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive 
considered whether its more likely than not that Miss O authorised the disputed payment.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by the online booking company. Its details of the 
disputed transaction included Miss Os name, postal address, and email address. It also 
provided the IP address used for the transaction.  Ive checked all this information against 
other transactions on Miss Os Halifax account, which she didnt dispute, and the details are 
the same. The online booking company also provided the phone number used for the 
booking, which matches that on Halifaxs records for Miss O, and which she gave to this 
service. 
So the disputed transaction was authorised by someone who gave Miss Os genuine name, 
address, email address, and phone number for the booking. It was made at her IP address.
Miss O said that her phone was protected by a password, and that she hadnt given anyone 
else her password or her online banking information. As Ive set out above, she also told 
Halifax that she still had her card and hadnt used any suspect websites.
Ive seen the information which the online booking company sent to Halifax. This says that 
the agreed price to be paid for a two-night booking for two people at the stated hotel 
between 17 and 19 March 2023, would be £367.20. There was a clause specifying a 
£178.20 cancellation fee for cancellations from 16 March onwards, and also provision for the 
same fee for a no show. It was this £178.20 which the online booking company, for the 
hotel, debited from Miss Os account on 28 March. So the evidence indicates that a booking 
was made using Miss Os details, and when she either cancelled after 16 March or didnt 
turn up, the cancellation / no-show fee was debited in line with the contract. 
Theres no obvious way in which any third party could have obtained Miss Os personal 
details, and her Halifax details, and carried out the transaction at her IP address. Miss O 
said she didnt carry out the transaction herself. But if she provided someone else with her 
personal and financial details, so they could carry it out at her IP address, it still counts as 
being authorised by Miss O. 
I also cant see why any third party fraudster, even if theyd been able to access Miss Os 
Halifax account, would have made a booking where the confirmation details including the 
check-in voucher would be, and were, sent to Miss O rather than to the fraudster. There 
would have been no benefit to any such fraudster, and an obvious risk that Miss O would 
report it. Im not persuaded by Miss Os argument that the two slightly different website names mean 
that she didnt authorise the payment. The two are connected.
So I consider the most likely scenario is that Miss O made the booking herself, and that she 
either cancelled it on or after 16 March, or didnt show at the hotel, incurring the £178.20 
charge in line with the contract shed agreed. 
Finally, Ive considered the inaccurate information given to Miss O by the Halifax adviser on 
5 April when he told her the Halifax email rejecting her claim hadnt been sent by Halifax. I 
find that the £40 compensation Halifax paid Miss O was fair and reasonable for this error by 
its adviser.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman