DRN-1597258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc ("RSA") delayed their home 
insurance claim. Mr and Mrs R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc ("RSA") 
delayed their home insurance claim. They say that numerous contractors were appointed 
and changed, and they had to chase the claim by phone to ensure it was progressing.    
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim to RSA in October 2018 about an escape of water at their 
property. The claim was accepted by RSA and work to put things right was completed in 
August 2019.
Mr and Mrs R say that RSA caused avoidable delays during the claims process, after four 
surveyors visited their property, and they had to make numerous phone calls to chase up on 
the progress of the claim.
Mr and Mrs Rs home insurance policy had a £250 excess payable for escape of water 
claims. When RSA asked Mr and Mrs R for this payment, they explained that they thought it 
should be waived, to compensate them for the telephone calls theyd made and the delays 
theyd faced.
RSA agreed to waive the excess. Once the claim has been settled, Mr and Mrs R raised a 
complaint about the claim. In the complaint they said they felt that the £250 RSA initially 
waived was to reimburse them for the telephone calls theyd had to make. Mr and Mrs R 
believe that RSA should additionally compensate them for the delays.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and agreed RSA should pay Mr and Mrs R some 
compensation, in addition to waiving the £250 excess. He explained that considering the 
overall delays and service Mr and Mrs had received, £600 in total would be a fair and 
reasonable way to compensate Mr and Mrs R. He also explained that the £250 it had initially 
waived in lieu of Mr and Mrs R paying the policy excess formed part of this £600  so he 
said RSA should pay Mr and Mrs R and additional £350.
RSA accepted the investigators findings and agreed to pay £350 further compensation to
Mr and Mrs R. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with this. They didnt think that the £250 waived 
excess should be considered part of the £600 total compensation, as they say it was 
reimbursement for the phone calls theyd made, as opposed to compensating them for the 
delays.
As the complaint still hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Im upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
I should start by explaining that in this decision Im not considering the claim itself. As that 
was accepted, and has been settled by RSA, thats not in question and I havent discussed it 
in detail. Im only considering what happened throughout the claim  thats to say, the time it 
took to settle and the level of unnecessary inconvenience, if any, that it caused Mr and
Mrs R.
Ive carefully reviewed the history of Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Having done so, theres no doubt 
that there have been some delays that couldve been avoided, and I think its right for RSA to 
recognise this by paying Mr and Mrs R some additional compensation.
Ive reviewed the history of the claim and Ill outline the important events;
The claim was raised on 17 October 2018
A note shows that a surveyor had visited Mr and Mrs Rs property by 31 October 
2018
A note on 30 November 2018 shows that the property needed drying
A contractor was appointed to carry out the work on 13 December 2018
Work to repair the damage to the property started on 15 April 2019
Mrs R told RSA about Mr Rs operation, and the difficulties the damage to the 
property was causing on 18 April 2019
Mrs R told RSA about an operation on her foot on 14 June 2019
Mrs R complained to RSA in July about the delays to the claim. RSA agreed to waive 
the excess at this point;
The work was completed around 7 August 2019.
 
Although I havent listed each occasion in the timeline above, its evident from the claim 
history provided by RSA that Mrs R had to contact it by phone a number of times, to follow 
up on the progress of the claim.
Its inevitable that an insurance claim and the subsequent remedial work done toa property 
will cause some sort of inconvenience. But thats to be expected, and I cant compensate Mr 
and Mrs R for the calls and inconvenience theyd have experienced even if the claim had 
gone smoothly. But having considered everything thats happened here, I think the claim 
took around six months longer to deal with than it should have.
The most notable delays were the two months between the claim being logged in October 
2018 and the contractor being appointed in December 2018, and the four months between 
the contractor being appointed in December 2018 and work starting in April 2019. I havent 
been made aware of an acceptable reason for these delays and they caused inconvenience 
that could, and indeed should, have been avoided. I also think that after logging the claim 
Mrs R had to contact RSA on more occasions than she should have  particularly where 
thered been confusion over which contractors had been appointed to carry out work, or 
when and why theyd been changed.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs point that there hasnt been enough, if any, communication 
between RSA and its contractors. I certainly agree that if the contractors had communicated 
better between each other, most likely via RSA, the claim wouldve taken much less time to 
settle.As a result of the escape of water that caused their claim to be made, Mr and Mrs R werent 
able to use their shower. Although they still had access to washing facilities by means of 
their sink and bath, Mrs R has told us about her and Mr Rs health  and how not being able 
to access the shower impacted them.
Mrs R explained that due to a problem with her foot she needed to use the shower rather 
than bath. She also says Mr R suffers with a back problem, and although he was able to use 
the bath, doing so was inconvenient and uncomfortable for him, and she had to help him to 
get in and out.
The impact of the delays to this claim certainly seems to have exacerbated Mr and Mrs Rs ill 
health. And it looks as though Mr and Mrs Rs health conditions were brought to RSAs 
attention in April 2019 and June 2019 respectively. As Ive explained, the work started on 15 
April 2019  which is just before RSA was made aware of Mr Rs condition. So whilst the 
work couldve been finished sooner if it had been started sooner, it doesnt look like RSA 
delayed the claim any further once it knew about Mr and Mrs Rs health conditions. And 
even without taking Mr and Mrs Rs health into consideration, RSA should still have been 
aware that they couldnt use their shower, and so it shouldve done more to progress the 
claim.
This claim was undoubtedly a stressful and uncomfortable time for Mr and Mrs R. And its 
clear that RSA couldve done a better job to make their experience much quicker. So I agree 
that it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to compensate Mr and Mrs R for the delays they 
faced and for the calls they had to make, over and above what Id reasonably expect during 
an insurance claim.
Having considered everything, I agree that a total figure of £600 is a fair compensation 
payment  in recognition of the additional inconvenience and extra phone calls  to bring this 
complaint to a close. £600 is within the range of what this service would consider a 
substantial compensation payment, so I consider it a fair and reasonable sum as its clear 
this claim caused much more trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs R than a claim should 
ordinarily cause.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Rs views on the £250 excess waiver. I know she believes 
this only covers the cost of the calls she had to make to RSA.
I can see that in its final response letter, RSA refers to a phone call with Mrs R in which it 
agreed to waive the £250 policy excess in recognition of the delays Mr and Mrs R had 
experienced. I havent listened to that call, but it sounds reasonable that would be the case. 
It seems unlikely that RSA wouldve agreed to pay £250 simply to reimburse Mr and Mrs R 
for the phone calls theyve made.
Mrs R also disagrees that the waived excess should be classed as part of the total 
compensation, because she says she didnt ask for compensation. But Im afraid I dont 
agree with that. I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to consider this amount as part of the 
total compensation figure. After all, if Mr and Mrs R had paid the £250 excess  rather than it 
being waived  their starting position would be £250 lower than it currently is. So the £600 
total compensation would result in them being £350 better off over all, either way.
Putting things right
Having considered everything, Ive concluded that there were avoidable delays of around six 
months throughout Mr and Mrs Rs escape of water claim. These delays caused them 
significant inconvenience, and RSA now needs to compensate Mr and Mrs R for this.It follows that I uphold this complaint.
RSA should pay Mr and Mrs R an additional £350 compensation in recognition of the 
avoidable delays to their claim, and the inconvenience these caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to put things right by paying an additional £350 in compensation to Mr and Mrs 
R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Sam Wade
Ombudsman