DRN-3540705
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to switch a Group Personal Pension (GPP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in several unregulated 
collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mrs N is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mrs N.
What happened
Mrs N met with Portal in 2015. Portal was to give advice on switching Mrs Ns GPP to a 
SIPP. Following this, another company (who Ill refer to as Firm C) would provide advice on 
how the funds in the SIPP should be invested.
At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. 
Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide investment 
advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide pension switch or transfer advice. 
Portal had an established business arrangement with Firm C, whereby Portal would provide 
the pension switch and/or transfer advice before referring the client back to Firm C for 
investment advice, and this arrangement was followed for Mrs N.
Portal carried out a review with Mrs N. It noted she was 54 years old, employed and was 
earning approximately £37,800 a year. She was married and owned her home valued at
£380,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £141,750. She had monthly disposable income of
£100. It noted Mrs N was in good health and believed she was likely to retire at age 67. She 
had £2,318 of savings held in a deposit account.
Portal recorded that Mrs N had a GPP which had a transfer value of approximately £28,699 
and was invested in a with-profits (WP) fund.
Portal noted Mrs Ns objectives were to:
provide death benefits;
be able to take drawdown in the future;
have access to a greater investment fund choice;
benefit from a potentially higher investment performance;
move to a cheaper scheme;
control flexibility of her plan; and
be able to access her benefits earlier than normal retirement age.
The risk assessment Portal carried out suggested she was a moderately adventurous 
investor. Based on Mrs Ns circumstances, Portal recommended that she switch her GPP to 
a SIPP to meet her objectives. Portal said it wouldnt be providing any advice in relation to 
where Mrs Ns funds would be invested after the switch, as this would be given by Firm C.
Portals Suitability Report (SR) noted that it would charge an initial advice fee of 5%, of 
which 2% would be paid to Firm C as an introducer fee. The Annual Management Charge 
(AMC) for the recommended SIPP would be 0.5% plus an initial charge of £180. Once the 
transfer was completed, Firm C would provide their investment advice and discuss the cost 
of their ongoing advice service.
The SIPP was established in early 2016 and funds totalling £29,162.37 were transferred into 
it in February 2016. Portal took its 5% initial charge, Firm C were then appointed as the 
servicing agent and Firm C then gave advice on how the SIPP should be invested.
In August 2019, with the assistance of a Claims Management Company (CMC), Mrs N 
complained to Portal about the advice she received to switch. She said the advice was 
negligent and unsuitable for someone with no investment experience, a low attitude to risk 
(ATR) and low capacity for loss. She also said that Portal couldnt make its switch 
recommendation without taking responsibility for assessing the underlying SIPP 
investments.
Portal rejected her complaint, saying Firm C was responsible for the investment advice. 
Unhappy with Portals response, Mrs N referred the matter to our Service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Mrs Ns complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think Portals advice was suitable. The Investigator didnt think Mrs N 
shouldve been advised to switch her plan as Portal had recommended a more expensive 
arrangement. He noted that Mrs N had given up guaranteed growth which was a feature of 
her GPP. The Investigator also said that Mrs Ns ATR had been incorrectly categorised as 
moderately adventurous and that even if this was the case, she couldve switched funds 
with her current provider. The Investigator thought Portal should compensate Mrs N for her 
loss, pay £500 plus VAT towards the cost of any financial advice she may wish to take now 
and pay an additional £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Portal disagreed with the Investigators findings, saying its advice was suitable and in line 
with Mrs Ns circumstances, needs and objectives. It said Mrs Ns SIPP allowed her to invest 
in mainstream products at a competitive cost. It said Mrs N wouldve been able to take tax 
free cash (TFC) from age 55 in this plan. Portal maintained Firm C was responsible for any 
investment advice and it had carried out significant due diligence on Firm C before 
partnering with it. It disagreed with the suggested method of redress, saying that it was 
illogical.
The Investigator didnt change his mind, so the complaint was referred to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision.
I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision on 29 May 2022. In this, I set out 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Portal ought to do to put things right. 
I invited all parties to provide any further submissions before 13 June 2022. Mrs N agreed 
with my provisional decision. Portal didnt provide any further submissions.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N accepted my provisional decision, and Portal didnt provide any further submission. 
Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in the provisional decision. Ill repeat these findings below. 
Portal advised Mrs N to switch her existing GPP to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments to be held in the SIPP as Firm C was providing 
advice on this.
Ive thought about this carefully. But even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise on the 
investments, I think Portal needed to have an awareness of the intended investments in 
order to give suitable advice. This remains the case even if Firm C was actually providing 
that advice. It is, in my view, reasonable to expect a firm that is assessing the suitability of a 
pension switch to make an assessment of their clients ATR and consider the overall 
investment strategy that applies to that proposed switch. This would include a broad 
understanding of the proposed investments, before it could determine whether the switch 
was in Mrs Ns best interest. I believe that as Mrs Ns financial adviser, Portal still had a duty 
to ensure the overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm 
was going to be involved.
The regulators position
I have taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, sets out the 
rules regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal 
to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation was suitable for Mrs N. 
It had to obtain information as to Mrs Ns knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific 
type of designated investment), her financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Mrs N to ensure the 
recommendation met her objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and that she had 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And under COBS 2.1.1R Portal had to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client."
At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it considered, in order to 
suitably advise on pension transfers or switches, a firm needed to consider the suitability of 
the underlying investments to be held in it. The regulators position was evident in its 2013 
alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
I acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert, the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. Whereas in Mrs Ns case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business 
under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be pursued for 
compensation by a consumer within the financial services regulatory regime.
Portal may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mrs Ns transaction 
from the scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to 
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly 
the case as it had said to Mrs N that it wouldnt be providing any advice on the underlying 
investments as Firm C was doing that. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful thought, I 
dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Mrs Ns case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So,
I think the alert is relevant to firms in the position of Portal in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014 which stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Both alerts specifically referred to PRIN and COBS, which Portal was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
I acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance or rules or 
standards in the sense that such requirements are specified by the regulator in its 
Handbook. Nonetheless, I regard it as a relevant consideration when determining this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case.
Portal appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mrs N it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted basis. But this wasnt right. Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its 
duty or liability to Mrs N under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a 
limited retainer didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was 
suitable  again, this had to include consideration of how Mrs Ns funds would be invested. I 
dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
As part of the fact-finding process Portal had to understand Mrs Ns objectives  two of 
which were recorded as to have greater fund choice and improved performance  and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mrs Ns funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
switch without knowing what Mrs N would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind 
seem reasonably possible.
As Portal didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets of 
the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs involvement, 
Mrs Ns transferred funds would ultimately be invested. And it didnt set out in its suitability 
report what it thought would be a suitable portfolio of investments for Mrs N. As Firm C was 
regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, 
Portal says it saw no issue with this.
I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension switch needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
switch, in order to provide suitable advice. So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully 
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all So, in the absence of Portal 
knowing the investments Firm C intended for Mrs N, it couldnt provide her with suitable 
advice to switch her pension benefits.
I also accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portals duty to do the same. As 
Mrs Ns appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mrs Ns best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness 
of where Mrs Ns funds would be invested.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Portal, at any point, checked to see how Firm C 
broadly proposed to invest Mrs Ns funds. And I believe it should have, given the 
unavoidable connection this had to the switch it was proposing. As part of its duty of care to 
Mrs N, I consider that Portal shouldve at the very least asked Firm C at the outset for details 
of the model portfolios it adopted for various risk categories. And in doing so it ought to have 
checked these lined up with what it considered to suit each risk group. Further to this Portal 
shouldve also asked for the details of the portfolio intended for Mrs N and the proposed 
investments. I dont think Portal couldve reasonably assessed the suitability of the 
transaction it was recommending without doing so.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portals advice turns 
solely on where Mrs Ns funds were ultimately invested.
Portals recommendation that she switch to a SIPP in the first place is an important 
consideration. And were it not for the switch and Portals incomplete and, in my view, flawed 
advice regarding this, Im not persuaded Mrs N wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as she 
did.The advice to switch
Ive considered whether the advice to switch Mrs Ns existing pension plan was suitable, but 
I dont think it was.
At the time of Portals advice Mrs N was 54 years old, employed and in good health. She 
was a standard retail investor with 13 years until she intended to retire. The plans being 
switched formed all of the retirement provisions that Portal were aware of. Weve since found 
out that Mrs N had an occupational pension scheme, but this wasnt known or taken into 
account by Portal from what I can see. Other than her pension there was no record of Mrs N 
having any other investments. And she had just over £2,000 in cash deposits. Although she 
was a homeowner, she had a significant outstanding amount on her mortgage.
Mrs Ns objectives as recorded by Portal were to provide death benefits, be able to take 
drawdown in the future, have access to a greater investment fund choice therefore possibly 
benefiting from a potentially higher investment performance, move to a cheaper scheme, 
have flexibility and to be able to access benefits earlier than normal retirement age.
These objectives are quite generic and dont appear to be tied to any specific aims that were 
recorded as priorities for Mrs N. These objectives seem to be more features that the SIPP 
offered rather than what Mrs N wanted or needed. For example, being able to access 
benefits early is listed as an objective, but Mrs N has also recorded her expected retirement 
age as 67. And while I understand being able to take TFC at age 55 may have appeared 
attractive, there isnt anything within the documents Portal completed that explains why she 
needed to take TFC at that time. From the brief notes contained in the fact find, there seems 
to be no immediate intention of Mrs N retiring or needing to use her funds, meaning Mrs N 
couldve revisited this when she did wish to start drawing benefits or had a specific need to 
access her TFC. So, I think switching Mrs Ns GPP for this reason was premature, 
particularly when it involved Mrs N giving up the guaranteed returns her GPP provided.
Two of the objectives, potentially higher investment performance and improved death 
benefits, may or may not have been achieved by switching, but this was purely speculative, 
especially when Portal did not know how the funds were to be invested. Any improved 
investment performance, leading to an increase in the fund value and a higher death benefit, 
was entirely dependent upon how the funds performed over the term to Mrs Ns retirement. 
In any event, Mrs Ns GPP had a guaranteed growth rate of 4% before charges, and 
historically it had achieved a return of around 5% per year. Its difficult to see how Mrs N 
could expect to exceed this growth, given her ATR (which I think was much lower than Portal 
assessed, as I will explain below) and the impact of the new ongoing charges.
Portal assessed Mrs N as having a moderately adventurous ATR. However, I dont think this 
was the case. Portal says this was based on answers given in response to an industry 
recognised tool for assessing ATR. But the answers Mrs N gave in response to those 
questions should only have formed part of Portals assessment of her ATR. And I note that 
some of the answers Mrs N gave were contradictory and shouldve prompted Portal to ask 
further questions. For example, Mrs N said she felt comfortable investing in the stock 
market, but she also said she had little experience of investing in stocks and shares.
Portal should therefore have taken into account Mrs Ns investment experience and 
knowledge, as well as her capacity for loss to determine what her real risk tolerance was. 
Mrs N had just over £2,000 in cash savings and no other investments or experience of 
investing in stocks and shares. And whilst she had another pension, Portal didnt know this 
and therefore it wasnt able to take any meaningful view on what provisions she was able to 
rely on in retirement. So, it couldnt accurately assess whether Mrs N could afford to take any risk with her GPP. Having considered all of this carefully, I dont think she could afford to 
take the level of risk associated with the ATR that Portal assessed her as having.
I note that Mrs N still had 13 years until her expected retirement age, but overall, in light of 
her low capacity for loss and lack of experience, I think Mrs N wouldve had a more cautious 
ATR than assessed. And based on this, I think its likely that the fund she was invested in 
with her GPP  which had a guaranteed rate of return  wouldve still been suitable for her. 
However, even if she did want to take slightly more risk for better returns, she wouldve likely 
been able to find a fund within the GPP which met her needs.
I cant see that Portal explored switching funds within the GPP. And there wasnt any 
explanation as to why Mrs N wanted a greater fund choice, or what investments she wanted 
to make that were not available with her existing providers. Furthermore, the value of the 
pension was relatively low, meaning that she was unlikely to be able to spread her 
investment across a significantly greater range of funds than the funds her existing scheme 
already employed. And I dont think Portal could reasonably conclude that Mrs N wanted or 
needed access to non-standard or unregulated investments, which the SIPP would provide. 
Whilst the SIPP would allow Mrs N to invest in mainstream funds, the added charges, taking 
into account the need for ongoing advice, would likely have made this more expensive. And, 
as Ive said, Mrs N was already in a fund which I think suited her ATR, and had a guaranteed 
growth which I think wouldve been a benefit to her.
I have also seen nothing to persuade me that Mrs N was seeking a sophisticated investment 
proposition or evidence why she wanted access to a wide range of investments. I think that 
greater investment fund choice was of limited benefit when Mrs N had little experience of 
investing in stocks and shares. The GPP she had was invested in a with-profits fund offering 
4% minimum worth per year. By switching her pension, she was losing this benefit.
I can see that the suitability report noted that Mrs N wanted a cheaper scheme and
I acknowledge that the SIPP recommended was not particularly expensive  it had an AMC 
of 0.5%. But there was a clear cost to switching her existing pension plan into a SIPP in the 
5% initial fee charged by Portal. There would also be charges associated with Firm Cs 
ongoing investment advice, plus other product or fund charges depending on the 
investments selected by Firm C. Of course, some of these could offset the charges of the 
existing plan. But its clear that there would be a significant cost to switching and I dont think 
Portal was able to justify this, particularly in view of the fact that it didnt know of the 
additional charges to be made by Firm C or the funds it would be advising Mrs N to invest in.
Furthermore, Portals argument that the transfer would result in lower charges in the long run 
was also undermined by its own statement in the suitability report:
Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is 
that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
Any additional charge to a consumer would provide a strong reason not to proceed with a 
course of action. So, the benefits of switching would need to outweigh the cost to Mrs Ns 
pension, as she was unlikely to be able to recoup these charges through improved fund 
performance over the short to medium term. But as Ive said, I dont think there were any 
other compelling reasons to switch Mrs Ns GPP.
Overall, I think the advice to switch the GPP to the SIPP was unsuitable because Mrs N was 
not an experienced investor and so did not need the wider investment choice the SIPP 
would provide. It would also be a more costly arrangement, once the SIPP provider, fund 
and adviser charges were taken into account. By switching, Mrs N also lost the benefit of a guaranteed growth rate. If Mrs N had wanted better performance an internal fund switch 
ought to have been considered in the first instance.
Ive thought about whether, if shed been correctly advised by Portal not to switch, Mrs N 
would have gone ahead with it anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances in 
this case, I dont believe she would have. Theres nothing to suggest that Mrs N was 
seriously considering moving her existing plans prior to being speaking to Portal for a 
pension review. And I dont think she had any immediate objectives that couldve only been 
met by switching her pension.
Is Portal wholly responsible for Mrs Ns loss?
I recognise it can be argued that Firm C is also liable to Mrs N and that in turn I should 
apportion only part of the responsibility to Portal. Ive given this careful thought, but in the 
circumstances, I think it is fair to find that Portal is wholly responsible and, in turn, to direct it 
to compensate Mrs N for the whole of her loss.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship in 
which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension release and investment. Because Firm C wasnt authorised to 
provide pension switch or transfer advice, it referred Mrs N to Portal. Portal advised Mrs N to 
switch her benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for her existing pension 
benefits to be switched over. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mrs N where to invest her 
funds within the SIPP. But, as Ive explained, Portals understanding that it could reasonably 
limit its advice to just the switch and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the 
proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mrs N on them. It was only as a 
result of Portals involvement that Mrs N switched the funds held in her existing plans to the 
SIPP. And given that I think she ought to have been advised to remain in her existing 
pension, I think it is Portals advice that has caused Mrs Ns loss.
Portal argues that Firm C is responsible for the investment advice. So, it says the amount of 
any award made against Portal should be limited by taking into account any payment that 
Mrs N may be able to recover through the FSCS.
In ordinary circumstances, because the FSCS describes itself as a fund of last resort, it is 
my understanding that it is unlikely it will pay out on claims where it is aware that another 
firm was involved in the transaction, and where it considers there is a reasonable prospect of 
the consumer making a recovery against that firm for the loss suffered. This means that 
apportionment of only part of the loss to Portal could risk leaving Mrs N out of pocket. But I 
think its important to point out that Im not saying Portal is wholly responsible for the losses 
simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to causation is 
that Portal gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mrs H suffered in 
transferring her GPP to the SIPP and investing as she did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in 
law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable 
position.
So, overall, I think holding Portal fully responsible for the whole of Mrs Ns loss represents 
fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mrs N back into the position she would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Portals unsuitable advice. I think this would have meant 
she kept her existing GPP and remained invested in the with-profits fund.Any loss Mrs N has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
GPP on the basis that it had remained invested in the with-profits fund, including the 
applicable guarantees and bonuses and subtracting the current value of the SIPP from this 
notional value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Ns pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs N as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mrs N hasnt yet taken any TFC from her plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Portal should also pay Mrs N £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
unsuitable advice, which has led to losses.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to settle this complaint as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman