DRN-3117440
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J, complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled 
its application for a Bounce Back Loan.
Js director, Mr S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
J held a Business Money Manager (BMM) account with HSBC. The BMM account is an 
instant access savings account.
J applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan on 19 May 2020. Within the application, Mr S 
said that J held a business current account with HSBC. He provided the account details for 
Js BMM account.
HSBC approved Js application and sent the company a loan agreement, which Mr S signed 
and returned.
When the loan funds werent received as expected a few days later, Mr S contacted HSBC 
for an update. The bank explained that on review, it wasnt able to provide J with the Bounce 
Back Loan. It said that applicants needed to have either a business current account or a 
feeder account in order to obtain a Bounce Back Loan from HSBC  and Js BMM account 
wasnt sufficient. 
Mr S complained, but HSBC maintained its decision. In its response of 27 July 2020, the 
bank said that J would need to apply for a feeder account via its online portal if it still wanted 
the Bounce Back Loan.
Mr S remained unhappy and continued to challenge the banks decision. He thought it was 
obliged to honour the executed agreement and didnt think the original criteria required 
applicants to hold a current account. He didnt think it was clear that the account J held was 
not a current account. He also said hed been unable to complete an online application, 
which he presumed was because the banks systems showed J as having already received 
a Bounce Back Loan.
HSBC responded on 9 November 2020. The bank said that its Bounce Back Loan eligibility 
criteria had always required applicants to have a business current account or feeder 
account  and that it had advised J of this in July. It said that its online portal for new 
applications had now closed.
HSBC subsequently reopened its online portal for new applications and J applied for a 
feeder account with some assistance from the bank. But HSBC declined the application. It 
wrote to J on 11 February 2021 to confirm this and that, as a result, it was terminating the 
loan agreement.
One of our investigators reviewed what had happened but didnt recommend that Js 
complaint be upheld. In summary, this was because:
HSBC had been entitled to require that applicants hold a particular account with the 
bank before accepting a Bounce Back Loan application. This was allowed for under 
the rules of the Loan Scheme and allowed the bank to complete the various checks 
required of it.
HSBC had processed Js first application in reliance on the information provided by 
the company. Applications were self-attested under the Loan Scheme rules. So it 
was only when the bank reviewed things that it discovered J didnt have the requisite 
account and so was ineligible. And she didnt think HSBC had misled J into thinking 
that the BMM account was a current account.
HSBC had declined Js application for a feeder account after carrying out its own 
internal checks. Having reviewed what the bank had considered when reaching its 
decision, she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Although the matter had been ongoing for several months, she didnt think HSBC 
was entirely responsible for the delays or, ultimately, in preventing J from applying for 
a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He said that HSBC heavily influenced his 
attempts to open the requisite account and was concerned that it had been engineered so as 
to fail. He reiterated that hed repeatedly attempted to apply online for a feeder account after 
being advised of this requirement by the bank but the system hadnt allowed this to proceed 
because J was deemed to already have a Bounce Back Loan. And he said all this had come 
about because HSBC had validated the BMM account as a current account when accepting 
the initial application. So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications  including from their existing customers. It wasnt a 
requirement of the Scheme that applicants have a particular type of account with a lender, 
but each lender was free to set its own requirements in this respect. 
HSBC required customers to have either a business current account or feeder account 
before it would consider an application from them for a Bounce Back Loan. I think this was 
reasonable. The bank was required to carry out a number of checks under the Scheme 
before lending, including Know Your Customer, fraud and anti-money laundering checks. 
HSBC was able to conduct these checks through its account-opening process.
So the starting position here is that J needed to have a feeder account or business 
current account in order to apply to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan. It didnt have one of 
these accounts when it submitted its initial application  a BMM account isnt a business 
current account. And I dont think HSBC did anything that ought reasonably to have led J to 
think that it was. 
However, when making its initial application, J declared that it held a business current 
account. On the application form, Mr S ticked a box to confirm that J was applying for a 
Bounce Back Loan from a lender with whom you have a business current account or charity 
bank account. That was incorrect. A more appropriate option was available (either a new lender or a lender with whom you have a financial relationship that is neither a business 
current account nor a personal current account).
The Bounce Back Loan application process followed principles of self-certification. That is, 
applicants were required to self-declare that they met the various eligibility criteria and 
provide information about their business  which lenders were not obliged to verify. In 
keeping with this, HSBC initially approved Js application on the basis of the information it 
had provided in its application. 
HSBC only identified the error in Js application after conducting final checks before 
releasing the loan funds. It wasnt obliged to provide the loan regardless, as Mr S has 
suggested. The agreement was entered into on the basis that the information provided by J 
in its application was correct  which it turned out not to be. The terms and conditions of the 
loan agreement allowed for its termination in certain circumstances and I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to do that here. The application form that J completed also made clear 
that the loan could be forfeited if the information provided within it was incomplete or 
inaccurate.
If J had been eligible for a feeder account, then it may have been possible for HSBC to 
honour the agreement  so this is the option it explored. But Js application for the account 
was unsuccessful. It failed the banks checks, so it was declined.  Ive reviewed the 
information on which HSBC based this decision, and I think it was reasonable. 
The bank isnt obliged to disclose its reasons and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require 
that it do so. But I can reassure Mr S that it is not due to any issues with the ownership 
structure as he has suggested. Ive also not seen that the decision was reached by virtue of 
any inappropriate involvement of bank staff in completing the application. The decision 
wouldve been the same if Mr S had completed the application independently.
I appreciate that it took Mr S a lot of time and trouble to get to the point of being able to apply 
for the feeder account. While I cant say for certain, I expect that he is right to think that he 
was initially unable to apply on the basis that  so far as the banks system was concerned  
J had already received a Bounce Back Loan. Ideally, this wouldve been rectified much 
sooner such that a feeder account application could proceed. 
Ultimately, though, I dont think the delay had a material impact on things. The banks 
decision on the feeder account would always have been the same, regardless of when it was 
submitted. Ive not seen that J was prevented from applying elsewhere altogether because 
of the issue  as once J had the banks decision on its feeder account application (on 11 
February), it still had time to apply elsewhere (with the Scheme running until the end of 
March). And while I dont doubt that J was put to some inconvenience, for the reasons above 
I think that the situation arose as a result of an error on Js part rather than the banks. So I 
dont think I could fairly require HSBC to compensate the company for the time and 
resources spent on rectifying it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman