DRN-4312260
The complaint
Miss F complains about a car she purchased under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
What happened
In July 2021 Miss F purchased a used car costing £21,250.00, a 24 month warranty costing 
£899.00 and 24 months breakdown cover costing £99.00. Under the terms of the agreement, 
everything else being equal, Miss F undertook to pay a deposit of £3,257.94 followed by 48 
monthly payments of £383.07 followed by 1 monthly payment of £8,054.00 making a total 
repayable of £29,699.30 at an APR of 13.9%. 
In February 2023 Miss F says she started to hear an engine knock.
In February 2023 Miss F had the car looked at by a garage who suspected the top end had 
been starved of oil and a new engine and turbo were required.
In February 2023 Miss F had the car looked at by another garage who suspected the engine 
had been deprived of oil due to a blocked oil pump.
In February 2023 Miss F complained to Black Horse about the quality of the car she had 
purchased and that the car had been sold to her as coming with a full service history, not a 
partial one.
In March 2023 Black Horse issued Miss F with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Black Horse said it wasnt upholding Miss Fs complaint that she had been supplied 
with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality or that the car was sold to her as coming with a 
full service history.
Miss Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Miss F didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
I would like to make clear that Im only considering in this decision Miss Fs complaint 
against Black Horse that the car she acquired was of unsatisfactory quality and that it was 
sold with a full service history, not any other complaint she might have against Black Horse 
or any complaint she might have against one or more third parties.
I would also add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
The agreement in this case is a regulated one. As such, this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this agreement 
and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history.
It's not in dispute the car currently has a fault that will cost a substantial amount of money to 
repair. But Im not persuaded that this fault was present or developing at the point of supply. 
I say this because of:
the age of the car at the time of purchase (four and half years old)
the recorded mileage at the time of purchase (circa 49,500)
how long Miss F had been in possession of the car before the engine knock started 
(circa 18 months)
 the number of miles Miss F was able to add the cars odometer between the date of 
sale and the date the engine knock started (circa 16,500)
the services undertaken (or not undertaken) on the car
the lack of documentary evidence confirming the current fault was present, or 
developing, at the point of supply
I will now address Miss Fs complaint that the car was sold to her as coming with a complete 
service history.
I dont underestimate Miss Fs strength of feeling on this particular point but on the balance 
of probabilities Im not persuaded she was misled on this point as she submits.I accept that Miss F was told, and provided with evidence in support, that the car was 
serviced in December 2016 [at 8 miles], in October 2018 [at 20,683 miles] and in June 2021 
(by supplying dealership prior to sale to Miss F) [at 49,406 miles]. But this doesnt constitute 
a full service history. This is because Miss Fs car requires servicing every 21,000 miles or 
every two years (whatever occurs first). So this means the car should have been serviced at 
circa 42,000 miles, or in October 2020, but wasnt. And this is something I might have 
expected Miss F to have realised. I would also add that its not being suggested that the 
services undertaken were partial (rather than full) but the car has a partial service history 
(rather than a full one) due to no service being undertaken at circa 42,000 miles or in 
October 2020.
Black Horse has provided what it says is an extract of the original car advert stating the car 
comes with a partial service history. On the other hand, Miss F has provided what she says 
is the original car advert (in its entirety) making no reference to a service history. But even if I 
was to discount what Black Horse has provided the advert provided by Miss F, although 
making no reference to a partial service history, makes no reference to a full service history. 
I appreciate Miss F will be disappointed, but in summary Im not persuaded she was 
supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality or that she was advised the car came 
with a full service history. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman