DRN-1786819
The complaint
Ms H complains that following a burglary at her home Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
have only agreed to pay her for two of the items she reported were stolen.
What happened
Ms H has a household contents insurance policy with RSA. In October 2019 her home was 
burgled. She reported this to RSA and made claim for the items that were stolen. 
RSA asked Ms H to provide receipts, or other supporting evidence, in respect of the items 
she claimed for. Ms H told them that some of the stolen items had been bought by her sister, 
of her sister's boyfriend, and she'd paid them back in cash. And others had been gifts to her 
children. 
She was able to provide some receipts, and other confirmation that the items had been 
purchased, but none of these were in her name, and the items weren't delivered to her home 
address. And she wasn't able to provide evidence of withdrawing the cash, to make the 
payments she claimed she'd made to her sister, and her sister's boyfriend.
RSA weren't satisfied with the evidence Ms H provided in support of her claim. Although, 
they agreed to replace a bracelet, as she sent them a photograph of her daughter wearing it. 
And they also accepted her claim in respect of money saved in a 'coin bottle'. They 
accepted, that as this money was saved over time, she wouldn't be able to provide 
supporting evidence. Ms H estimated she had £200 in the bottle. RSA agreed to pay her 
£50, after deduction of her £150 policy excess.
Ms H was unhappy with the settlement she received and complained to RSA. They partially 
upheld her complaint, as they accepted they'd been some initial confusion over who would 
be handling her claim. They paid her £100 for the poor service she'd received. But they 
didn't accept they'd done anything wrong in assessing her claim, as her policy required her 
to provide evidence to show she'd owned the items she claimed for. And they weren't 
satisfied with the evidence she'd provided.
Ms H didn't accept RSA's response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case, but he didn't think RSA had done anything wrong. He said Ms H's 
policy made it clear that RSA might require additional information in support of her claim, 
including original purchase receipts, invoices, instruction booklets, or bank and credit cards 
statements. And he didn't think it was unreasonable for them to do this, especially as most of 
the items she was claiming for were expensive technology products, including a television, a 
laptop, an xbox, and an iPad.  
He accepted that proof of purchase might not always be available, as this would depend on 
when the items were purchased, but RSA had requested photographs, which he felt  showed 
they were taking a flexible approach to the claim. He's reviewed the receipts and invoices 
Ms H had been able to provide, which showed the items were bought by and delivered to 
other people. And even though she'd told him these people were relatives, he felt the 
evidence supported the items belonging to them, rather than to Ms H. So in the absence of proof that she'd owned the high value items claimed for, he didn't recommend Ms H's 
complaint be upheld.
Ms H didn't accept our investigator's opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA issued their response to Ms H's complaint on 10 December 2019. They've told us that 
they've been further discussions with Ms H about her claim after that date, but they're only 
happy for us to consider her complaint up to the date of their final response letter.
When any insurance claim is made, it's usual for the insurer to require evidence to prove the 
policyholder owned the items they're claiming for. So, I don't think RSA did anything wrong 
when they asked Ms H to provide proof of ownership of the items she'd claimed for. I need to 
consider the evidence Ms H provided to RSA, and whether I think it shows she owned the 
items she claimed for.
Ms H has told us that a lot of the items were purchased on her behalf, by her sister or her 
sister's boyfriend. The receipts and other proof of purchase she's provided show these items 
were bought by other people, and delivered to other addresses. Ms H has said that these 
items were bought for her, and she paid her sister and her sister's boyfriend for them in 
cash, either in lump sums, or over time. While this sort of arrangement may not be unusual, 
to be satisfied the items belonged to Ms H, I'd need to see evidence of the payments she's 
said she made for these items.
Ms H has told us that she doesn't have a bank account, but she uses a relative's bank 
account, and she's said only her money that goes into and leaves this account. She's 
provided copies of a number of bank statements for this account. They confirm that Ms H 
receives payments into this account. But I can't see any cash withdrawals which would have 
enabled her to make the cash payments she says she made to her sister and her sister's 
boyfriend. Or any transactions which would show Ms H was making regular payments 
to them. So I don't think the bank statements provide evidence in support of her claim.
RSA told Ms H they were prepared to accept photographic or video evidence in support of 
her claim. She's provided a number of photographs which she says show the items claimed 
for in use, in her house, but these aren't clear, and it isn't possible to identify the items as 
those she claimed for. And in respect of the designer clothing included in her claim, she's 
only provided copies of online adverts, which aren't proof of ownership to support her claim.
Having considered the evidence Ms H has provided in support of her claim, I'm not satisfied 
that she's shown she owned the items she says were stolen from her home. I think 
RSA acted reasonably by saying they were prepared to accept photographic evidence of the 
items in her home, being worn, or in use. While I appreciate her comment that she can't 
have been expected to photograph everything in her home, she's only been able to provide 
proof of ownership of one item, her daughter's bracelet, and RSA agreed this claim. 
I understand that having her home broken into would have been a distressing experience for 
Ms H, and I sympathise with her. But having considered all the evidence in this case I'm not 
satisfied she's shown that she owned anything other than the items RSA have agreed to pay 
for. So I don't think RSA have acted unreasonably and I won't be asking them to do 
anything.My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I don't uphold Ms H's claim against 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman