DRN-2787867
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited took too long to update his credit 
file after hed been discharged from bankruptcy. He wants compensation.
 
What happened
Mr H tells us that in March 2019 he was made bankrupt. But that in September 2019 he was 
discharged from his bankruptcy. Which meant that his accounts with SDFCL were satisfied. 
He says that SDFCL didnt update his credit file with the information about the discharge 
until after July 2020. He seeks compensation.
SDFCL told us that it hadnt become aware that Mr H had been discharged until 1 July 2020. 
And on being notified it had taken the required steps to update his credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
notes shed been provided with showed that Mr H had notified SDFCL, in July 2020, that 
hed been discharged from bankruptcy in September 2019. And that SDFCL had then 
obtained confirmation of this through the insolvency website. It had then acted to update his 
credit file. She said that she hadnt been provided with sufficient information to show SDFCL 
had been notified of Mr Hs discharge before July 2020.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The order in this case was that of sequestration (which is the Scottish version of 
bankruptcy). But for ease of reading Ill refer to bankruptcy as the parties have used that 
term throughout.
Im sorry to see that Mr H experienced financial difficulties. And I understand hed be keen to 
see his credit file updated as quickly as possible after hed been discharged from 
bankruptcy.
Ive seen the letter of the official notification which confirms that Mr H entered bankruptcy in 
March 2019. And its not in dispute that this was discharged on 15 September 2019.
Theres no obligation on the Insolvency Practitioner to notify businesses of the discharge. 
And the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) suggests its for the individual to notify the 
relevant lenders of the discharge.
Ive seen notes that show Mr H contacted SDFCL on 1 July 2020. And that SDFCL then took 
steps to obtain the official confirmation of the discharge. Whereupon it started the process to 
update Mr Hs credit file. 
Im aware that Mr H thinks that SDFCL was notified of his discharge from bankruptcy at an 
earlier date. And that it should have updated his credit file much earlier. But theres 
insufficient information to show that SDFCL was aware of the discharge prior to 1 July 2020.
Its also fair to note that the bankruptcy will be recorded for six years on his credit file. So Mr 
Hs overall credit rating probably wont have been materially affected by any delay in 
updating individual accounts.
In summary, I find that SDFCL acted correctly and updated Mr Hs credit file within a 
reasonable period of it having official confirmation of his discharge from bankruptcy.  
Accordingly, I shant ask SDFCL to do anything else. Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman