DRN-2225468
The complaint
Mrs R says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs R took out in 2001. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt give Mrs R tailored advice about buying PPI, so it didnt have to check it was right 
for her. But it did have to give her information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading  so that Mrs R could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Mrs R clear enough information about the policys key exclusions. 
And I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs R, as she had not just one, but two pre-existing 
medical conditions which wouldnt have been covered.
Mrs R had to take regular medication for these conditions, had to have treatments in 
hospital, and had had an operation for one of them. She explained that they affected her 
ability to work or find new roles and caused her to struggle. So I think these conditions 
wouldve been at the forefront of Mrs Rs mind, and theres a good chance she wouldve 
considered them the most likely conditions to cause her to claim. But she couldnt have 
claimed for time off resulting from either of these two conditions. So Mrs R couldnt have 
claimed on the policy for everything she mightve reasonably expected to be able to.
If AXA had given Mrs R clear enough information about the policys main exclusions, then 
I think its most likely she wouldnt have bought it. So I think Mrs R has probably lost out 
because of the flaws in this sale.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs R would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs R owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs R would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs R would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs R wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Mrs R what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman