DRN-1855932
The complaint
Miss N says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold her a loan payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
St Andrews Insurance has agreed to take responsibility for looking at this complaint. So I will 
refer to St Andrews Insurance throughout the decision.
What happened
Miss N took out a PPI policy with a loan in 2003 on a postal mailing. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss N disagreed with our adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Miss N added she was told that if she didnt take 
the PPI, she couldnt have the loan  so she says she felt pressured to buy it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ns case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint because:
I think St Andrews Insurance made Miss N aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I say this because Miss N signed a 
separate direct debit mandate which was for the PPI only. And as this was a postal 
application, I couldnt see evidence of when she had personal contact with anyone 
who she says pressured her to buy the PPI.
St Andrews Insurance didnt recommend the PPI to Miss N so it didnt have to check 
if it was right for her. So it was up to miss N to make her own decision about the PPI.
The cost of the policy was shown on the direct debit mandate which Miss N signed 
and returned. So I think Miss N would have understood how much she would need to 
pay for it. 
Its possible St Andrews Insurance didnt point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But Miss N doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
 
Ive taken into account Miss Ns comments, including what she has said about her employee 
benefits, and her secure full-time job. But these points dont change my conclusion. I say this 
because I think she probably had a need for cover and the PPI could have paid out for 
longer than and in addition to her employee benefits on a successful claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman