DRN-1516375
Complaint
Mrs G complains TSB Bank plc didnt put a stop on two regular payments debiting her 
account when they shouldve. And she complains they took too long to investigate her 
concerns, causing her inconvenience.
Background
Mrs G holds a current account with TSB. She says in late 2018 she upgraded her mobile 
phone and downloaded a well-known software product. A free trial for online storage came 
with the software, which she accepted, but she says she didnt realise she would be charged 
a regular monthly fee of £5.99 once the trial finished. On seeing this amount debit her 
current account, she says she contacted TSB straight away to put a stop to the payment. 
She says she thought the payment had been stopped, but it continued to debit her account 
until TSB did eventually stop it in May 2019.
Mrs G also says she noticed another monthly payment leaving her account for a well-known 
online shopping and media service for £7.99. She says she regularly signs up for a free-trial 
for this service each Christmas, but she hadnt agreed to payments debiting her account. 
She says she contacted TSB to stop the payments, but again it failed to do so until May 
2019. She says the service provider agreed to refund one payment, but not the others.
TSB refuses to refund the payments. It says Mrs G likely agreed to the payments, and each 
payment instruction was processed correctly. It says it stopped the payments promptly after 
Mrs G asked it to.
An investigator at our service looked into Mrs Gs concerns but decided not to uphold her 
complaint. They found the payments represented continuous payment authorities she had 
agreed to when she signed up for each trial. So, in terms of TSBs liability, the payments 
were authorised and not something it needed to refund.
Mrs G disagrees with the investigators findings. She thinks TSB took too long to investigate 
her concerns, and she should be awarded compensation. She has asked for a final decision 
on this matter by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Our investigator explained to Mrs G that there is no record of a phone call of her contacting 
TSB in relation to the payments for online storage until March 2019. Ive listened to the calls 
Mrs G made to TSB from late 2018 onwards and I agree that this is the case. 
TSB didnt stop the payment in March 2019, so another payment debited her account in April 
2019. Its possible TSB couldve done more to stop the payment at that time, but Mrs G has 
confirmed she reinstated her online storage soon after TSB did stop the payment in May 2019. She wanted the benefit of accessing the media she had stored on the facility. So even 
if the payment was stopped earlier, I think Mrs G wouldve still reinstated her access and so 
continued to pay for the service.
The investigator concluded Mrs G did not raise her concerns about the subscription to the 
online shopping and media service until May 2019, after which TSB stopped the payment. 
Again, from listening to the calls Mrs G had with TSB, I havent heard any to show she raised 
her concerns earlier than this. Shed previously raised concerns about individual payments 
made through the service providers marketplace, but not the subscription service itself. So, I 
dont think TSB ought to have done any more to stop the payments any earlier than it did.
Im persuaded that for both sets of payments Mrs G likely agreed to set up continuous 
payment authorities on signing up for the trials. In doing so, she likely pre-agreed to 
subscription payments debiting her account in order to continue using the services after 
each trial finished. In my experience this is a very common term with trials of this type. And, I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest the contracts she agreed to when accepting each trial 
didnt include conditions along these lines. 
Mrs G has herself said shes used free trials with the same media and shopping service 
provider in the past. So, I think its more likely than not that shed have been aware of the 
need to cancel the service before each trial period ended to avoid going on to pay for a 
subscription. 
Mrs G has my sympathies if for whatever reason she was unaware that payments would be 
taken after the trials ended. But in terms of TSBs liability, I find its not responsible for 
whatever confusion may have occurred in this regard. Instead, TSBs liability is defined by 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017. In general, the regulations require a firm to refund 
payments which werent authorised. An unauthorised payment under the regulations would 
be one for which Mrs G hadnt given her consent.
TSB has shown the correct details from Mrs Gs card were used to take payments from her 
account. And, as I think Mrs G likely gave authority for each service provider to debit her 
account when she accepted the trials, for the purposes of the payment services regulations, 
shed given consent for those payments to be taken. So, Im satisfied the payments were 
authorised, and I wont be asking TSB to refund them.
Mrs G says she should be compensated for the time TSB took to investigate her concerns. 
Listening to the calls she had with TSB she was often frustrated by the person she was 
talking to not understanding what had happened, and she regularly asked to speak to a 
manager. She was also concerned how long she was on the phone and the length of time 
TSB told her it may take to decide whether to refund the payments.
I appreciate Mrs G thinks she was clear in informing TSB what had happened and how, but I 
find TSB tried its best to understand the situation and on the whole it acted reasonably when 
investigating her concerns. Im also satisfied Mrs G didnt fully make TSB aware of her 
concerns as early as she says she did. And, as I think she likely authorised the payments, 
Im not recommending any compensation for the time it took TSB them to investigate or 
answer her dispute. I dont think that would be a fair and reasonable outcome.
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman