DRN-3341699
The complaint
Mr H has complained that when Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) took over his 
share dealing account he lost money and/or shares.
What happened
Mr H had an online general investment share dealing account with a platform which I shall 
refer to as Company A. 
In July 2020 Company A became part of the IISL group after a takeover and all Company 
As accounts were transferred to IISL on 6 February 2021. IISL wrote to Mr H several times 
about this. On 12 May 2021 it wrote confirming its takeover of Company As business, it 
detailed how Mr H could access his account and asked him to confirm his agreement to its 
terms and conditions. It wrote to him again on 16 July 2021 explaining that it would be 
charging a flat monthly fee with effect from September 2021. 
Mr H didnt and couldnt activate his account as he didnt use a computer. Mr H said he 
never gave IISL consent to have anything to do with his account and he became concerned 
that it had sold his shares or that they were missing. He complained to IISL in May 2021.
In response to Mr Hs complaint IISL:
Company A was responsible for Mr Hs account prior to its transfer to IISL. It would 
be difficult for IISL to look into any issues prior to the transfer of Mr Hs account.
It referred to Company As valuations of Mr Hs account dated October 2019, January 
and February 2021. There were shares in GlaxoSmithKline and Lloyds Banking 
Group and one valueless holding in Worthington Group. The statements showed that 
on 5 February 2021 GlaxoSmithKline and Lloyds Banking shares were sold and 
along with the cash already held on account the proceeds of £18,223.17 were sent 
by cheque to Mr H at his request on 22 February 2021. 
It credited £50 to Mr Hs account in recognition of the delays in responding to his 
complaint. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with IISLs response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator who considered Mr Hs complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said:
The statement of Mr Hs account showed two holdings, GlaxoSmithKline and Lloyds 
Banking Group, the encashed value for which, plus cash on account totalling 
£18,223.17, was transferred to IISL on 6 February 2021 and the funds withdrawn by 
cheque on 22 February. There was nothing left in the account. 
Mr H had initially complained to IISL in May 2021 but didnt receive a response until 
November 2021, so IISL sent Mr H a cheque for £50 (the cheque was for £50.03 
which I address further on in my decision) in apology and which the investigator 
thought was the right thing to do. 
Mr H had raised concerns about the charges IISL debited to his account. IISL 
charged monthly fees which had been debited to his account in November and 
December 2021. While Mr H had withdrawn all funds from his account in February of 
that year, he hadnt asked for it to be closed and the service continued. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think IISL had done anything wrong.
Following comment from Mr H the investigator wrote to him again:
She couldnt look any actions Company A may have carried out, only issues about 
IISL.
She reiterated the account transfer in February 2021 and Mr Hs request to IISL to 
withdraw the balance.
Mr H had raised concerns about his data protection and the move from Company A 
to IISL. The investigator explained the transfer that had taken place because of 
commercial decisions between the two businesses. But if Mr H had any concerns 
that either party breached his data protection, he could contact the Information 
Commissioners Office.
She remained of the opinion that IISLs offer of £50 for the delay in its communication 
with Mr H was fair. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to say Im aware that Mr H has problems with mobility and using the phone, 
so Id like to thank him for the effort he has made in bringing his complaint. However, after 
carefully considering the information and evidence that I have been given, I wont be 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs account with Company A and the transfer of Mr Hs account to IISL
As explained above, Mr H had a share dealing account with Company A which became part 
of IISL in February 2021. 
We asked IISL for more details about the transfer of Mr Hs account from Company A to 
IISL. It told us that because of the takeover, migration was the default position and that 
customers were advised to contact it or the ceding platform  Company A in this case  to 
arrange transfer out if preferred. IISL said that if it didnt receive any contact from a customer 
acceptance was assumed and migration took place. 
However, IISL told us it didnt have access to a customers account history unless that 
customer agreed to its terms and conditions and provided consent for it to hold a customers 
assets.  Mr H hadnt provided consent by agreeing to IISLs terms and conditions. IISL told 
us Mr Hs shares were sold prior to the migration and just the resulting cash was transferred. 
Mr H has said he never wanted to transfer his account away from Company A to IISL and 
that he didnt agree to it. As the takeover was a commercial decision made between the two 
businesses it wasnt something Mr H had any say in. The only action available to him if he 
wasnt happy with the takeover and wanted to avoid the default position of his account being 
migrated to IISL, was to move his account. And Im satisfied that this is effectively the action 
he took. I say this because Ive been provided with a recording of the call Mr H had with IISL on 22 
February 2021. At the beginning of that call Mr H refers to the fact that he had sold all of his 
shares  he said he had sold the lot  and that hed been told his account had been 
transferred to IISL from Company A. The representative at IISL confirmed his account had 
been migrated and asked what action Mr H wanted to take. Mr H requested for the money 
on his account to be sent to him and passed the necessary security questions in order for 
that to happen. Mr H also asked for the balance on his account to be sent to him via cheque 
rather than direct to a bank account and the representative confirmed that would take place 
within three to five days. 
As Mr H confirmed he had sold the lot during his call with IISL Ive looked at what is known 
about his shareholdings with Company A prior to the migration and transfer of the cash on 
his account. 
Mr H has provided a cash statement dated 2 August 2021 from Company A. This shows 
that his two shareholdings  1,130 GlaxoSmithKline and 2,405 Lloyds Banking Group were 
sold on 5 February 2021. Along with the cash held on the account, those sale proceeds were 
transferred to IISL on 7 February 2021. This left a zero balance on his account with 
Company A. So, Im satisfied its most likely his shares were sold upon his instruction, 
bearing in mind his comment that he had sold the lot, and everything showing on his 
account was transferred.
IISL has confirmed that the cheque was issued on 24 February 2021 and was cashed on 23 
March 2021. 
This left a zero balance on Mr Hs account as evidenced by his IISL account summary 
statement for the period from 8 February to 5 April 2021.
I note that Mr H held Worthington Group shares on his account with Company A which were 
recorded as having no value. According to Companies House the winding up of the business 
commenced in November 2016. 
From the information Ive been given, Im satisfied the account transfer was completed as 
advised to Mr H and as I would expect. I cant see anything to make me think that shares or 
cash went missing during that transfer. So, I cant agree with Mr H that this is the case. 
Dormant account
Mr H has referred to the possibility of there being a dormant account. As Ive said above, Im 
satisfied that his account with Company A was transferred successfully. And that the 
proceeds from the sales of his two shareholdings as well as the cash on account was 
passed to IISL. I havent been told of any other accounts Mr H may have held but I would 
have expected all of Company As accounts to have been reconciled prior to the transfer to 
IISL.
After the cash was transferred to IISL it was withdrawn and his account stood at zero. IISL 
has told us that migration was the default position if customers didnt take any action and 
while the account was placed on its system it has limited information about a customers 
account history or functionality unless consent is provided. As Mr H didnt give his consent, 
this is the only potential dormant account I can identify. If Mr H has any concerns about a 
dormant account with Company A then he should raise them with IISL but will need to give it 
his consent. 
Charges to Mr Hs account. After taking over Company As business in July 2020 IISL wrote to Mr H in July 2021 
confirming it would be charging a flat monthly fee to his account with effect from the 
September. Mr H had withdrawn his funds from the account by this time leaving a zero 
balance, but he hadnt given any instruction to close his account at that point. And during the 
call Mr H had on 22 February I note IISLs representative said that he could call back  once 
the money was transferred  to close his account. But theres no record that he did this. 
Hence the account remained active and I can see two monthly charges of £9.99 were 
debited to his account in November and December 2021.
Mr H recently sent us a statement for the quarter period ending April 2022 showing further 
credits and debits on his account. We sought clarification from IISL. 
And in this particular case  taking into account Mr Hs personal circumstances  I dont 
think its unreasonable to assume Mr H didnt want an account with IISL and it should be 
closed.
IISL has agreed. It has also explained the debits and credits on Mr Hs account and 
confirmed that Mr H hasnt paid any monthly fees since they were introduced in late 2021. It 
credited Mr Hs account with £30 in February 2022 to pay the three monthly fees of £9.99 
that had so far been paid in order for the account to be closed (an account with a debit 
couldnt be closed). This left a balance of £50.03  the £50 that had been credited to Mr Hs 
account for the delay in considering his complaint and three pence after the £30 was 
credited to his account and the three monthly fees of £9.99 had been deducted. 
I think IISLs actions are fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr H made clear he didnt want an account with IISL  his actions in selling his shares prior 
to the transfer of his account and withdrawing his funds shortly afterwards would suggest 
this has been the case throughout. So, I think its the right thing to do  Mr H hasnt paid any 
monthly fees and his account is effectively closed. 
A cheque for £50.03 has been paid to Mr H. 
IISLs award of £50  is it fair?
IISL recognised that it didnt promptly respond to Mr Hs letter of complaint he sent in May 
2021. It didnt reply to him until November. And in order to put that right it credited £50 to his 
IISL account. 
I appreciate the effort Mr H has made in making his complaint and bringing it to this service 
and inevitably this would have had an impact on Mr H. But I dont think the upset and 
disruption he would have been caused in the process of bringing that complaint causes me 
to conclude that an award in excess of £50 is warranted. That amount is around the level I 
would expect to award in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. 
In February 2022 IISL told us it would be sending Mr H a cheque for £50 (or £50.03 as 
mentioned above) instead of crediting his account in order to avoid any confusion. 
I know Mr H has been unwell and I am sorry to hear that. However, taking everything into 
consideration and in the individual circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, for the reasons given 
above, Im not going to uphold it. I appreciate that Mr H will no doubt be disappointed, but I 
hope I have been able to explain how and why Ive reached the conclusion that I have. 
Mr H told us that he has not cashed the payment of £50.03 paid to him by IISL. It is for him 
to now decide whether he wants to do so. My final decision
For the reasons give above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman