DRN-1092545
The complaint
Ms R has complained about advice she received regarding investments within her Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Shes unhappy that she cant access all her funds 
despite being told that the investments held could be accessed within 30 days. 
What happened
Ms R received advice from Copia Wealth Management Limited in 2016. The fact find 
completed at the time recorded that she was 60 years old and had a planned retirement age 
of 66. Shed recently been diagnosed with cancer and wanted advice on accessing cash in 
order to fund private medical treatment. As she was still working she had no immediate need 
for income.
Ms R held two pension plans, a defined benefit plan from a former employer and a Section 
32 buy-out plan worth just under £36,000. 
Copia advised Ms R to transfer the Section 32 plan into a drawdown arrangement so she 
could access her tax-free cash leaving the remainder of her fund to be accessed as and 
when she required. In order to facilitate this, Copia recommended a SIPP. It also advised Ms 
R to place her SIPP funds with a discretionary fund manager, which Ill refer to as Firm R, 
and invest in Firm Rs Balanced Portfolio. 
Ms R went ahead with Copias recommendation and her SIPP was set up. She took just 
under £9,000 in tax-free cash immediately and the remainder of her fund, just under 
£27,000, was invested in Firm Rs Balanced Portfolio. 
Ms R made further withdrawals from her fund. However, she contacted Copia in June 2018 
as shed been given a terminal prognosis and wanted to pre-pay her funeral expenses. So 
she wanted to disinvest all her funds. But Firm R told her that this wasnt possible because 
some of the remaining investments were illiquid. It also explained that the SIPP provider said 
that its preferred strategy at that time was to not compromise on the redemption value for the 
sake of liquidity. Ms R requested assistance from Copia in accessing these funds. 
With assistance from Copia Ms R complained to the SIPP provider. But she subsequently 
registered a complaint against Copia. She said it told her that shed be able to access funds 
within 30 days. And it was almost a year since her first request to disinvest the remaining 
funds, having first contacted Copia about this issue in June 2018. 
Copia was unhappy that a complaint had been registered against it. It felt that Firm R hadnt 
followed the agreed investment strategy. So it considered the complaint would be better 
directed to Firm R. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint against Copia. He explained that hed 
considered the overall advice Ms R had received to transfer her funds to a SIPP and invest 
through Firm R. And although the investigator acknowledged what Copia said about Firm R 
not following the agreed investment strategy, he didnt feel the overall advice to invest 
through Firm R was suitable in the first place. So he thought Copia needed to do more to put 
things right. Ms R wanted to access her tax-free lump sum and the investigator thought that this couldve 
been achieved through a more cost effective pension arrangement that would also facilitate 
her requirement for future ad hoc access. And Ms R needed her funds to remain accessible 
to cover medical costs. So while she was happy to accept a small amount of risk, the 
investigator didnt think she needed her pension funds to be actively traded or to hold assets 
that might be prone to illiquidity. 
Copia disagreed with the investigators opinion. In summary it said that at no point had Ms R 
complained about the SIPP; her issue was solely with the fact that she cant access the last 
of her funds held within it. Copia said this was due to Firm R having lied about the underlying 
investments used as part of the portfolio. And it considered Firm R should be made to 
compensate Ms R.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I find Im in 
agreement with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
Firstly, I should say that were an informal dispute resolution scheme, and that our remit is 
inquisitorial. This means we can set the scope of our investigation and can look beyond the 
exact words of the consumer's complaint. 
In this case, Ms R initially complained that she couldnt access her funds despite believing 
they were being held in a 30 day access account. Im satisfied that our inquisitorial remit 
allows this service to consider the question of the suitability of the recommendation as a 
whole and not to focus narrowly on the point Ms R has raised.
In determining whether the advice was suitable there are a couple of points I need to 
consider. Firstly, Ive thought about whether the advice to transfer the Section 32 plan to a 
SIPP was suitable for Ms R. 
Its evident that Ms R had a need to access her tax-free cash in order to pay for private 
medical treatment. However, it wasnt possible for her to take tax-free cash from her existing 
Section 32 plan and leave the remainder of the fund where it was. The only options available 
under the existing plan were to take the entire fund as a lump sum  25% of which wouldve 
been tax-free and the remainder wouldve been subject to income tax at Ms Rs highest rate 
of tax. Or take tax-free cash and purchase an annuity with the remainder of the fund. 
The fact find completed at the time of advice indicates that Ms R was intending to work for 
another five years and she had a defined benefit pension plan. No details were recorded as 
to what benefit she would receive from the defined benefit plan at retirement. But it was 
confirmed that she didnt want to access any funds from this plan at that time. And other than 
an immediate need to access the tax-free cash, the fact find confirmed that Ms R didnt have 
an immediate need for additional income. However, Ms R told our investigator that she 
wanted the remaining funds to be accessible. And given her reason for needing to access 
the tax-free cash, I think this was an important consideration that the adviser should have 
thought carefully about.  The recommendation to move the Section 32 plan to a flexible drawdown plan wasnt in itself 
unreasonable as it allowed Ms R to take tax-free cash and leave the remainder of the fund 
invested. The SIPP did facilitate this so it met Ms Rs objectives, but Ive seen no evidence 
that Copia investigated alternative drawdown products to compare the charges. And with 
such a small residual fund after taking tax-free cash, charges were an important factor as 
they can have a considerable impact on the fund. 
Copia also recommended that Ms R invest the SIPP funds in Firm Rs Balanced Portfolio. 
This was one of a range of portfolio models managed by Firm R on a discretionary basis, 
investing the money in a number of separate assets. 
There was a cost to this, in addition to the SIPP fees. And, given Ms Rs modest pension 
fund, Ive seen nothing to justify the advice to use Firm Rs services or the costs that this 
involved. I dont think Ms R sought a discretionary managed investment, but rather accepted 
it on advice. And she only had 5 years until her expected retirement. So there was only 
limited time for the additional charges to be recovered by investment performance. 
Im also not persuaded that the portfolio selected was appropriate for Ms Rs needs and 
attitude to risk (ATR).  
The fact find confirmed that Ms R had no savings and a net monthly income of £1750 with 
outgoings of £1500. And it records that her objective for accessing her tax-free cash at that 
time was to pay for private medical treatment as shed very recently been diagnosed with 
cancer. The fact find alludes to Ms R having prior experience of investments but no further 
information has been recorded regarding this. And it also suggests there was a conversation 
around Ms Rs ATR but the details are incomplete. So its not clear what ATR she was 
assessed as having. In any event, without full details of Ms Rs other pension provision and 
prior investment experience, it wasnt possible for the adviser to make an accurate 
assessment of her ATR. This suggests that not only did they fail to properly assess this, but 
the adviser also had no real idea about Ms Rs capacity for risk.
Ms R told our investigator that she believed her funds would be accessible within 30 days 
and that she thought they were in a type of savings account. This leads me to conclude that 
she had limited knowledge and prior experience of investments. And given the size of her 
fund, and her reasons for needing access to her pension, I dont think she wouldve been 
prepared to take much risk with her investment. She had no other savings and limited 
disposable income to fall back on should the value of the investments fall or become illiquid, 
as was the case in this instance. And its not known what overall proportion of her entire 
pension provision the Section 32 plan represented. So I think Ms Rs attitude to risk 
shouldve been assessed as cautious. 
Firm Rs fund factsheet states that the Balanced Portfolio is for investors with a risk profile of 
4 on a scale of 7. This wouldnt be suitable for an investor with a cautious attitude to risk. 
The fact sheet also confirms that the fund has a 5 to 7 year investment horizon. I think 
greater consideration shouldve been given to the likelihood of Ms R needing to access her 
funds sooner than this. Shed already turned 60 and although still working, she was being 
treated for cancer. So there was no certainty that she would be able to continue working until 
the age of 66. And having already entered a flexi-access drawdown SIPP I think the adviser 
shouldve considered the possibility that funds may well be required in the near future. So an 
investment with a 5 to 7 year horizon was unsuitable. I therefore concluded that the advice to 
invest in Firm Rs Balanced Portfolio was not suitable for Ms R; I think she shouldve been 
advised to take a lower risk investment.I acknowledge that Copia has concerns about how Firm R has managed the portfolio and it 
considers that Ms R losses stem from this. Im not able to investigate the actions of Firm R. 
This is because its been declared in default by the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) as its unable to meet claims against it. In any event, Im satisfied that the 
losses suffered by Ms R are as a result of inappropriate advice from Copia to invest in 
Firm Rs balanced portfolio.
I say this because Im not satisfied that the recommendation to invest in the portfolio, as set 
out on the fund factsheet, was suitable for Ms R. And as Ive explained above, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the advice to use Firm R as a discretionary fund manager was 
appropriate. So, regardless of how Firm R managed the portfolio, Ms Rs remaining pension 
funds wouldnt have been placed in the portfolio in the first place, had it not been for the 
unsuitable advice Copia provided. 
So taking all this into consideration, I must now decide what is fair compensation to award 
against Copia. 
Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Copia but in the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair to make an award for the 
whole loss against it. As Ive said above, any complaint about Firm R would have to be 
considered by the FSCS. As a scheme of last resort its possible the FSCS wouldnt pay out 
if a third party could also be held liable. Which means an apportionment of only part of the 
loss to Copia could risk leaving Ms R out of pocket. With this in mind  and recognising also 
that Ms R wouldnt have lost out at all but for Copias failings and that Copia benefitted 
financially from advising on this unsuitable transaction  I think apportioning responsibility to 
Copia for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Im also conscious that this matter has caused Ms R considerable stress at what is already a 
very difficult time. She requires access to these funds so that she can pre-pay her funeral 
expenses. And she first contacted Copia to raise concerns in July 2018. So Ive also set out 
below a payment to reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused Ms R.
fair compensation
My aim is that Ms R should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Ms R would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Ms R's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should Copia do?
To compensate Ms R fairly, Copia must:
Compare the performance of Ms R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Copia should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, I would usually say that Copia should pay directly into Ms R's pension plan 
to increase its value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. However, given Ms Rs circumstances and her need to access funds as soon as possible, 
Im directing Copia to pay that amount direct to Ms R. But had it been paid into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms R's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Ms R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
Pay to Ms R £600 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Copia deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Ms R how much has been taken off. Copia should give Ms R a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
Firm R 
Balanced 
Portfoliomixedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Copia should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Copia is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Copia may require that Ms R provides an undertaking to pay 
Copia any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Copia will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Copia should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Copia totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms R wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Ms R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Ms R into that position. It does not mean that Ms 
R would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Ms R could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Copia Wealth Management Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above directly to Ms R. It should pay her £600 for the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused her.
Copia Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Ms R in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms R either to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman