DRN-3700910
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the settlement offer from Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) following a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K had a motor insurance policy with Admiral which renewed in January 2022. 
Unfortunately, her car was stolen from outside her house in May 2022  so she put in a 
claim. Admiral initially sent a letter with a settlement offer for £29,550.00, based on its 
assessment of the market value of the vehicle at the time of the theft. The following day, 
having noticed a driving conviction that hadnt been declared at renewal, Admiral revised its 
offer to £21,172.40. 
Mrs K raised a complaint about the settlement amount, and said she hadnt realised she 
needed to tell Admiral about the recent speeding fine and points. Admiral responded to say 
that had the driving offence being disclosed at renewal it would have charged a higher 
premium. Admiral also explained that, in this scenario, the relevant law advised it to apply 
the remedy of a proportional settlement to all claim losses  which is what it had done in the 
revised offer.
Unhappy with the response, Mrs K referred the complaint to our service for review. An 
investigator here considered everything and didnt think the offer was fair. He agreed Admiral 
were entitled to settle proportionately, due to the non-disclosure. He also thought the insurer 
had made it sufficiently clear at renewal that any new driving offences would need to be 
declared. But the investigator didnt think Admiral hadnt fairly calculated the market value for 
the vehicle. He commented that the terms stated the trade guides would be used to 
determine market value  and Admirals valuation was below the amount given by three of 
them. The investigator recommended the insurer used an average of the three guides 
(£31,372.00) as the starting point before applying the proportionate settlement calculation 
and excess. Then any difference should be paid along with 8% yearly simple interest added.
Admiral didnt accept our service had the jurisdiction to comment on the cars valuation in 
this complaint. The insurer said our service could only comment on the specific complaint 
points raised by Mrs K  and if she was unhappy with the valuation amount then shed need 
to raise that separately. The investigator explained he was able to consider the valuation 
when looking at the fairness of the settlement amount overall as part of his inquisitorial remit.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint  and for the same reasons given by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDR). That sets out the legal remedies available to insurers when dealing with 
instances of misrepresentation. Mrs K didnt tell Admiral about a recent motoring offence 
when she renewed in January 2022  so she, inadvertently, didnt give the insurer all the 
information it needed to accurately calculate the risk associated with her policy. I appreciate 
she didnt realise she needed to update Admiral, and assumed any new convictions would 
automatically update on the policy. But Ive had a look at what Admiral sent Mrs K on 
renewal, via her online portal (as per the preferences selected when the policy was initial set 
up). I consider it was clear from those documents that any new driving offences would need 
to be declared.
Admiral has treated Mrs Ks non-disclosure as careless rather than deliberate or reckless. I 
agree that it seems Mrs K didnt intend to misrepresent the risk. I also appreciate that Mrs K 
feels the significant reduction in settlement amount is a harsh penalty for the mistake  but 
Admiral has applied the remedy thats set out in law for this scenario. The percentage 
reduction was also based on the amount by which the premium would have increased, had 
full disclosure been made. So I find the insurer has acted fairly in the circumstances by 
proportionately settling the claim.
Im surprised by Admirals comments regarding our ability to comment on the valuation of the 
vehicle in this case. This complaint is about the settlement amount offered to Mrs K  and 
whether she specified she was unhappy with the valuation or not, the starting point for the 
settlement figure was the valuation. So, in order to decide whether the settlement offer is 
reasonable or not, I can review all of the calculations made in reaching it. A consumer wont 
always know the different processes or calculations that sit behind an offer, so it wouldnt be 
fair to limit our review to only the aspects a consumer is aware of or thought to mention. Our 
inquisitorial remit allows us to comment on anything we see during the course of our 
investigation that we dont think is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. For instance, if I 
thought the offer was fair but the service given in reaching it had been poor, then I might 
direct the insurer to pay compensation  even if the consumer hadnt complained about the 
service. Here its enough that Mrs K has complained about the settlement amount  and as 
part of looking at that, Ive decided the valuation Admiral reached for the car wasnt 
reasonable.
Where there is a dispute about the valuation of a vehicle, the role of our service isnt to 
determine its exact value. Instead I need to decide whether the insurer reached its offer by 
fair and reasonable means. That includes looking at whether it was calculated in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Mrs Ks policy said in this scenario Admiral would pay the 
market value of the vehicle immediately prior to the loss. The terms also said the insurer 
would use the industry recognised motor trade guides to calculate it. We find those guides 
persuasive too  as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices.
The three main trade guides applicable here gave valuations of £30,250.00, £31,500.00, and 
£32,365.00 for the date of loss. The valuation Admiral placed on the car was below the 
amount given in all of the trade guides I consulted, and I havent seen any indication in the 
claim file that any deductions were warranted (for example, due to the condition of the 
vehicle). So I find the vehicles value wasnt reached in line with the terms  and therefore 
wasnt reasonable in the circumstances. I consider the fairest way to calculate the value now 
would be to take an average of the figures given by the trade guides  which is £31,372.00.     
Putting things right
Admiral should now use the above valuation figure, then apply the proportionate settlement 
calculation and deduct the excess from that. It should then calculate difference between that figure and the settlement amount already paid to Mrs K. Admiral should add to the difference 
eight percent yearly simple interest, calculated from the date of the interim payment up until 
the remaining settlement amount is paid.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs K a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mrs Ks complaint about Admiral Insurance Company Limited, 
and direct the insurer to settle the complaint in line with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman