DRN-2042271
The complaint
Mr J complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited has acted unfairly by applying 
an early repayment charge (ERC) when he repaid his mortgage.
Mr J would like the ERC hes paid to be refunded to him.
What happened
In August 2016 Mr J took out an interest only mortgage with CCFS for around £540,000. Mr 
J had received advice from a broker before entering into the loan. Mr J was planning to let 
out his home and wanted to raise some capital from this property to fund a second property 
purchase.
Mr Js mortgage with CCFS had a three year interest rate product of 3.09% above London 
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). An ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid within 
three years, which was before 25 August 2019. 
In March 2019 Mr J contacted CCFS. He wanted to know how much his ERC would be if he 
repaid the mortgage and what date it would no longer apply. In April 2019 Mr J called CCFS 
again. He asked for more information about the ERC. He knew the ERC would be around 
£11,000 but he wanted to be sure that the same amount would apply right up to the end of 
the product. Mr J was unhappy that the same ERC would apply throughout the third year of 
the products term, and even into the final weeks before the product expired. He didnt think 
this was fair as it couldnt be an estimate of CCFS loss if he repaid the loan at that point.
Mr J complained to CCFS in April 2019. CCFS gave its final response on 23 May 2019. 
CCFS said, in summary, that it would apply the same ERC if Mr J repaid the mortgage at 
any point in the final year of the interest rate product. It said this is how the ERC was set out 
in the mortgage offer which Mr J had entered up to. CCFS said it didnt work out ERCs for an 
individual mortgage throughout the product term, but gave an average position for a book of 
mortgages and it spreads the cost over the first three years, rather than calculate it at a 
given point in the mortgage term.
In June 2019 Mr J wrote to CCFS to try to negotiate a lower early redemption payment. He 
offered around £3,600 to reflect the loss to CCFS if he repaid the mortgage a couple of 
months early rather than the £11,000 set out in the contract. CCFS said its position was 
unchanged from that set out in its final response, and that it stood by the terms in its 
mortgage offer.
In August 2019 Mr J repaid the mortgage in full having sold his property. He repaid the 
mortgage just days before the interest rate product expired. Mr J paid the ERC of around 
£11,000. 
Mr J was unhappy with CCFS response to his complaint and the fact he was charged the 
ERC even though he settled the mortgage so near to the end of the ERC period. He brought 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think that CCFS had made a 
mistake in applying the ERC, and thought it had acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage. He thought it was reasonable that CCFS chose not to waive the 
ERC in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr J asked that an ombudsman consider the 
matter and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms as set out in the mortgage offer and the circumstances in which 
CCFS said an ERC would be payable. Im satisfied that the mortgage offer clearly set out the 
amount of the ERC in the first, second and third year that the interest rate was in place. The 
offer sets out that the ERC was 3% of the mortgage balance for the first 12 months, and then 
2% for the next 24 months. It also gives an equivalent cash value.
Mr J has said he knew that there was an ERC, and that he was aware this was around 
£11,000. Whats disputed here is whether it was fair and reasonable in Mr Js specific 
circumstances for CCFS to apply it so close to the end of the three year product. In fact in 
this case it appears Mr J proceeded with the sale of his property just days away from the 
ERC no longer being applicable.
In such a situation you might typically expect Mr J to have delayed the sale of his property by 
the days needed to prevent the ERC being applicable to mitigate his financial loss. But Mr 
Js said it wasnt possible for him to delay the sale. The transaction needed to happen before 
his mortgage had been in force for three years for him to qualify for tax relief.
I can see why Mr J wanted to be in an advantageous tax position, and that he also wanted to 
avoid paying the ERC. However, the contract did set out that an ERC would be payable if 
the mortgage was repaid within three years of the product being taken out. I dont think 
CCFS made a mistake in applying the ERC when it did- but thats not the end of the matter. 
Ive also considered whether it acted fairly and reasonably by not agreeing to waive the ERC 
in Mr Js set of circumstances. Ultimately Im satisfied that this was a commercial decision 
that CCFS was entitled to make. It hadnt misled Mr J in the way the ERC would operate, 
and Mr J had been told in March and April 2019 exactly how the ERC would be applied. Mr J 
had time to take steps to avoid being charged the ERC by making sure he sold the property 
after the date at which the ERC would no longer apply and ultimately Mr J made the choice 
to proceed with the sale when he did. Overall, I think its reasonable that CCFS chose not to 
waive the ERC. The charge hadnt been applied in error, and it was Mr Js choice to go 
ahead with repaying the mortgage during the three year period that the charge applied.
Mr J has also challenged whether its fair that the ERC wasnt reduced during the last 
months and days of the interest rate product. Mr Js referred to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) regulation, and other cases that have been considered by this service and 
published on our website.
I understand the arguments that Mr J is making, and I can see why it seems so unfair he 
was charged an ERC of around £11,000 when there were days remaining before the ERC 
no longer applied at all. I wont comment on other complaints or examples that Mr J has 
mentioned. It wouldnt be appropriate as Im not in possession of all the facts relating to 
these different cases and the unique set of circumstances that apply to each complaint that 
we consider.The FCA Handbook sets out certain requirements for early repayment charges. These 
requirements apply to regulated mortgage contracts. However, Mr Js mortgage with CCFS 
is not a regulated mortgage contract. This buy-to-let mortgage taken out with CCFS sits 
outside of FCA regulation about early repayment charges; regulated mortgage contracts 
(MCOB 12.3). 
While the contract may not have been regulated, I have thought about good industry practice 
for such buy-to-let contracts and whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances in 
reaching my decision. 
I can understand why Mr J wanted to renegotiate a settlement with CCFS when he chose to 
repay it so soon to the end of the products term. But I think it is reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint that CCFS chose not to do so. The ERC was applied to a 
tranche of borrowing of a similar type, and it would be unreasonably onerous and out of line 
with good industry practice to expect CCFS to have prepared a bespoke calculation for Mr 
Js mortgage, rather than as part of a tranche of mortgage contracts of a similar type.
While I sympathise with the financial dilemma Mr J found himself in, I dont think this 
situation was due to a mistake caused by CCFS. And I dont think it is unreasonable that 
CCFS applied the ERC as set out in the mortgage contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman