DRN-3664032
The complaint
Mr J complains HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed direct debits payments from his account for the 
wrong amounts and on the wrong dates.
Mr J is assisted in bringing his complaint by another party. For simplicity, Ill refer to all 
comments and information as having been provided by Mr J.
What happened
Mr J has a current account with HSBC from which regular direct debit payments are paid to 
his energy supplier.
Mr J says that in 2021, payments were being made by direct debit for a fixed amount on the 
same date each month. However, later in 2021, Mr J was contacted by his energy supplier 
who told him the monthly payment amount needed to increase. After discussions, a new 
monthly amount was agreed but the next direct debit claimed was for a higher than that. 
Thereafter, the newly agreed amount was claimed each month.
In March 2022, Mr J received an email from his energy provider advising that the direct debit 
amount was to increase again. Unhappy with the proposed new amount, Mr J complained to 
HSBC. He wasnt happy with the proposed monthly amount and didnt agree with what his 
energy supplier said he owed them.
HSBC wrote to Mr J in May 2022. They said they werent able to investigate Mr Js concerns 
as this was a matter between him and his energy supplier. They didnt agree theyd made a 
mistake and suggested he could raise an indemnity claim with them if he thought the 
amounts were wrong. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr J referred his complaint to this service. He asked this 
service to take steps to:
ensure the direct debit guarantee is adhered to and any wrongly claimed sums were 
returned; and
instruct HSBC to provide an apology; and
ask HSBC and his energy provider to provide a written assurance that the direct debit 
guarantee will be adhered to.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. He said the direct debit was an arrangement between Mr J and his energy 
supplier, so HSBC wouldnt have control over this.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators findings. He thought HSBC shouldve known the 
dates and amounts of his direct debit payments and identified where thered been a breach. 
He didnt agree his energy supplier could claim varying amount on varying dates.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Js complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, its important to make clear what this service can and cant do within the 
context of Mr Js complaint. This service was established in 2000 and given powers in 2001 
by Parliament to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial 
services within the UK. So, in Mr Js case, I can consider his complaint against HSBC as a 
financial services provider. But Im not able to consider any concern or complaint he may 
have about his energy supplier as they arent a regulated financial service provider.
A direct debit is an instruction from a consumer to their bank authorising an organisation to 
collect varying amounts on varying dates from their account. Mr J has a direct debit 
instruction in place allowing payments to be claimed by his energy provider. The important 
point here is that HSBC have no control or input into the amount and/or frequency of those 
payments. That is controlled by Mr Js energy supplier. 
The energy supplier is bound under the direct debit guarantee scheme. In simple terms, this 
means that if Mr Js energy supplier hasnt complied with the terms of the direct debit 
scheme, hes entitled to ask HSBC to raise an indemnity claim requesting a refund of any 
incorrectly claimed payments. 
Mr Js energy supplier is required to tell him in advance where theres a change in either the 
amount or date of his direct debit. If they havent done that, then Mr J can raise a claim 
under the indemnity. But, its important to realise that if any amount is refunded that Mr J 
isnt entitled to, he may be required to reimburse his energy provider.
From the information provided by Mr J, it appears hes unhappy with the new payment 
amounts suggested by his energy supplier. There also appears to be some concern about 
what they say he owes them. The wording of the direct debit guarantee is important here, as 
this is referred to in the terms of Mr Js HSBC account. It says:
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare event that 
there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the 
incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation.
Further details about the direct debit scheme and guarantee can be found online by following 
this link  https://www.directdebit.co.uk/direct-debit-explained/direct-debit-guarantee/.
HSBC have suggested that Mr J may wish to raise an indemnity claim if he believes his 
energy supplier has made an error with their direct debit claims. This is what I would expect 
them to do here although Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr J has since requested this.
Im not able to comment specifically on whether Mr Js energy provider has complied with 
the requirements of the direct debit scheme. Only whether HSBC did anything wrong by 
allowing the direct debits to be paid from his account. Ive already explained HSBC dont 
control the amount and frequency of the direct debit. So, while I appreciate Mr J will be 
disappointed, I cant reasonably say HSBC have done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman