DRN-3667627
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined their claim for damage to a shed.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr and Mrs N made a claim on their QIC property insurance policy. A large 
tree had fallen on two of their sheds. QIC considered the claim under a falling objects 
section of their policy. It declined the claim for damage to a large timber shed. 
To refuse the claim QIC relied on a wear and tear exclusion  referencing the pre-loss 
condition of the shed. Its said the shed had rotten timbers prior to the loss. Its also referred 
to a second exclusion  no cover for gradual or maintenance related loss or damage. Finally 
QIC quoted a policy condition requiring Mr and Mrs N to maintain their buildings in a good 
state of repair. In its opinion the shed was already in a poor state of repair with the fallen tree 
merely highlighting this.  
Mr and Mrs N complained to QIC, but it didnt agree to pay the claim. To resolve their 
complaint they want to be paid a reasonable sum to allow for removal, disposal and 
replacement with a new insulated shed. 
In August 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She said she was persuaded a 
storm was the main cause of the damage. So she said QIC should settle the claim. In 
response to QICs objections she added it would be reasonable for it to consider the pre-
storm condition when settling the claim  but it would be unfair for it to decline the claim 
entirely. QIC still didnt accept the assessment, so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.  
In September 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I intended to require 
QIC to pay Mr and Mrs N £1,750 to settle their claim (minus any applicable excess) and 
reimburse them the costs of removal of the tree. Ive included below my reasoning contained 
in the provisional decision as it forms part of this final decision. I also invited QIC and 
Mr and Mrs N to provide any further comments they would like me to consider before I issue 
a final decision. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC considered the claim under the falling objects section of the policy. Although our 
investigator said it should be settled under the storm cover. Either way I dont think it 
makes a significant difference. With winds of 78mph theres no dispute there were 
storm conditions. And its accepted a falling object, a large tree, fell on the shed. 
The issue for me to consider is if the falling tree (or storm) was the main or dominant 
cause of the damage to the shed  or if as QIC claims the tree simply highlighted its 
pre-existing poor state of repair.
Photos show the shed isnt a standard retail type. It appears to be home constructed 
using various materials  including timber and corrugated iron. It clearly wasnt in 
perfect condition before the tree fell on it. The photos do show some rotting of 
timbers and cladding. But I dont agree it was at the end of its lifespan. Considering 
the size of the tree and the resulting damage, Im not persuaded it simply highlighted 
a pre-existing problem. Most importantly I wouldnt expect a new and perfectly 
maintained shed to have withstood the impact. 
So it seems most likely to me that the tree (or storm) was the main or dominant 
cause of damage. And so I dont think its fair for QIC to rely on the referenced 
exclusions or condition to refuse the claim. 
The investigator recommended QIC settle the claim, whilst noting it would be 
reasonable for it to take into account the pre-loss condition of the shed when doing 
so. The policy terms do say QIC may consider the condition of property  and reduce 
the amount paid when settling a claim. I also think it will be fair for it to do that when 
settling the claim.
But considering the design and condition of the shed against Mr and Mrs Ns 
estimates for its replacement, I suspect the investigators proposal would be unlikely 
to result in an easily agreed settlement. So for practicality and in the interests of 
avoiding further dispute I will propose what I consider a fair settlement. 
Mr and Mrs N have provided estimates that range from £10,000 to £11,500. These 
are for a professionally built and installed, premium shed or workshop. They include 
extras such as double glazing, insulation and lining. I dont think it would be fair to 
require QIC to provide a replacement at that specification. There would be a 
significant element of betterment involved. Instead Id expect QIC to make a 
reasonable contribution towards the sheds replacement. 
It seems unlikely the damaged shed was professionally built or installed. It wasnt 
fully constructed of standard shed material. It seems from the photos that it was 
insulated and lined  with some electrical installation. But again I think thats likely to 
DIY standard, rather than professional installation. In addition the shed was in an 
aged condition. 
Having considered everything and in the absence of other suggestions I propose the 
settlement to £1,750. Ive considered the cost of similarly sized, professionally 
designed and constructed sheds from internet DIY retailers  and then made a 
deduction. The proposed amount includes a contribution towards the cost of debris 
removal, Mr and Mrs N self-installing insulation, lining and other replacement 
facilities. 
If Mr and Mrs N or QIC disagree they can provide, in response to this provisional 
decision, anything they would like me to consider.
It seems Mr and Mrs N may have paid for the removal of the fallen tree. The policy 
terms say QIC will pay the cost of removing the fallen item that caused the damage. 
So I intend to require it to reimburse Mr and Mrs N that cost. I ask they provide 
evidence of payment in response to this provisional decision. 
A £200 claim excess applies to Mr and Mrs Ns policy. If QIC hasnt already applied 
the excess, it can choose to deduct it from the settlement.   What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision QIC said it didnt agree with my outcome in its 
entirety. But it accepted my proposed settlement of £1,750 as reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs N said they considered my provisional decision to be fair  but provided some 
final comments for my consideration. These mainly focused on the proposed settlement 
figure. They felt £1,750 wouldnt be a fair amount. 
They asked that the contents of the shed and the second metal one be considered. 
However, neither formed part of the complaint referred to this service. So it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to consider them. Mr and Mrs N should pursue their claim for these items 
directly with QIC. If they arent happy with any proposed settlement they could consider a 
further complaint. For clarity I havent considered any of the following as part of this 
complaint  shelving, workbench, garden or leisure items, bikes and a mower.     
Mr and Mrs N said the policy allows QIC to reduce payment if loss or damage was made 
worse by a failure to meet their various obligations under the terms. They say as its been 
established the tree caused the damage a condition related reduction may not be 
appropriate. So instead under the terms the shed should be rebuilt as it was new. 
I accept what they say about the terms. But the policy also says, on page 24, that where a 
building hasnt been maintained in a good state of repair, QIC will take into account the 
condition of the property and may reduce the settlement. Overall I still think its fair that the 
pre-loss condition is considered when deciding the settlement.  
In response to the provisional decision Mr and Mrs N provided some calculations for their 
proposed settlement. After deducting amounts they included for the metal shed and some 
contents it comes to about £3,100  rather than the £1,750 I proposed. Its based on a quote 
for an installed superior shed, plus allowances for electrical installation and insulation. 
I dont accept Mr and Mrs Ns shed estimate as a reasonable starting point. I accept that 
they didnt build the original shed, instead it was there when they purchased the property. 
But the damaged shed doesnt appear to have been either professionally built or installed. 
Neither do I think a superior standard shed is a reasonable comparison either. 
My proposed settlement used similarly sized, standard quality, self-installed sheds as a 
starting point. These cost around £2,000. I then made a deduction for condition, and finally 
added allowances for insulation and electrical work. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ns recent 
estimate, but feel my original calculations to be fairer. So having considered the latest 
information I will still be requiring QIC to settle at £1,750.
 It seems the policy excess had already been deducted from a payment already made to 
Mr and Mrs N for the cost of tree removal. So Ive removed any reference to those two 
issues from my final direction.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs N £1,750 to settle 
their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman