DRN-3820737
The complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage held with Santander UK Plc (Santander). Mr A and 
Mr S are unhappy Santander has declined their application to remove Mr S from the 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr S took out an interest only mortgage with Santander in September 2006. A number of 
years later, in November 2021, Mr A was added to the mortgage. Mr A and Mr S asked 
Santander to remove Mr S from the mortgage in January 2022, but Santander declined their 
application. 
Mr A and Mr S complained about Santanders decision, so it looked into their concerns and 
issued a final response letter on 7 February 2022. Santander explained that it can decline 
applications for many reasons, but in this case, it was concerned Mr S had owned the 
property for a long time and Mr A was only recently added to the mortgage. So, Santander 
say theres a risk the ownership of the property could be challenged at a future date and 
Santander wasnt prepared to take that risk. Santander suggested Mr A and Mr S seek 
independent advice. 
Mr A and Mr S say they sought legal advice and independent financial advice in order to try 
and relieve Santanders concerns. Correspondence confirming the discussions took place 
was sent to Santander and Mr A asked Santander to reconsider its position. Santander 
issued a further response in April 2022 and confirmed its decision remained unchanged. 
Mr A and Mr S have explained that in their circumstances it is normal to do this and they 
have done all they can to prove Mr S has no interest in the property. They say Mr S would 
like to re-mortgage the home he currently lives in with his wife, but he cant due to his name 
remaining on this mortgage. So, as Mr A and Mr S remained unhappy, they brought their 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr A and Mr Ss concerns, but they didnt think Santander had 
done anything wrong. As Mr A and Mr S disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr A and Mr Ss complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Id like to explain that the ombudsman service offers an informal dispute resolution 
service. We take relevant law, regulation and good practice into account, but we cant force 
a business to change its lending policy  thats not our role. So, in this complaint, my role is 
to establish whether Mr A and Mr S have been treated fairly or not based on Santanders 
current lending policy.
I also want to acknowledge that Mr A and Mr S have provided a number of documents to 
support their complaint, and I want to reassure them Ive considered everything theyve sent. 
But Ill only comment on the points I think are most relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
As explained above, Mr A and Mr S want to remove Mr S from their joint mortgage, leaving it 
in the sole name of Mr A. I can see the application was referred to an underwriter for a 
decision, so Im satisfied the application was considered. 
Santander then declined the application because Mr S had held the mortgage on the 
property in his sole name for around 15 years, but Mr A had only recently been added  four 
months before this new application was submitted. Santander was concerned that Mr S 
would be walking away from a property he owned without receiving anything in return. And 
that if it agreed to the transfer of equity, this could cause problems further down the line. 
I understand Mr A and Mr S have explained that its normal in their culture to make 
arrangements like this. That Mr A had been helping Mr S with the mortgage for a long time 
and has paid for improvements to the property prior to being named on it. And that Mr S no 
longer lives in the property. But Im satisfied the underwriter was made aware of these points 
when they reviewed their decision to decline the application. Ultimately, the underwriter still 
had to consider Santanders Change of Borrower policy, and the information Mr A and Mr S 
provided didnt change the underwriters initial reason for declining the application.
Mr A doesnt think the decision is fair because he hasnt applied for any new lending. And, 
when he was added to the mortgage in November 2021, only his income was assessed. So, 
he doesnt think there should be any issue in removing Mr S from the mortgage. I 
understand Mr As frustration, but the affordability of the mortgage isnt in question. 
Santander has explained its concerns are in relation to Mr Ss decision to remove himself 
from the mortgage without benefiting from it. And that in the future, this could have 
repercussions on Santander.
Mr S has provided evidence he has sought legal advice and independent financial advice. 
Hes also said hed be prepared to provide a declaration of insolvency. Again, Im satisfied 
Santander have considered the information provided to it, but this still doesnt change its 
decision. I appreciate Mr A and Mr S thought this would change the outcome because the 
final response letter recommended they seek independent legal and financial advice. But I 
think this was said in the context of any future plans they made to apply elsewhere  
Santander didnt say that it would reconsider its position. 
Santander has provided a copy of its current Change of Borrower policy and Ive reviewed it 
to check it was applied appropriately to Mr A and Mr Ss application. The document is 
commercially sensitive, so I cant share the content of it in my decision, but Im satisfied 
Santander has applied its policy fairly. That means, I cant ask Santander to reconsider its 
decision not to remove Mr S from the mortgage at this time. Santander has made a 
legitimate business decision, and this is not something I can ask it to change under the 
circumstances.Mr A and Mr S have said they think Santander is encouraging them to move to a different 
lender because the interest rate on their mortgage is low and is unlikely to be making 
Santander much profit. I appreciate why Mr A and Mr S have worried about this possibility, 
but I havent seen anything to support that that was the case. I think Santanders reasons for 
declining their application have been explained clearly and are in line with their Change of 
Borrower policy. 
Finally, Mr A has provided copies of decisions issued by the ombudsman service that he 
thinks support his case. Ive read them, but I dont think the examples Mr A has provided are 
relevant to this complaint. I say this because each case is considered on its own merits and 
the examples Mr A has provided concern very different circumstances to his. For example, a 
decision about a marital breakdown where no detail has been given to confirm what 
arrangements were made with regards to the split of jointly owned assets cant be compared 
with what Mr A and Mr S are requesting. 
While the ombudsmen who wrote those decisions have asked lenders to remove parties 
named on mortgages, their decisions will have been based on the individual circumstances 
of the complainants involved and each lenders own policy. In this case, I have reviewed 
both of those things in detail and while I know this will be disappointing for Mr A and Mr S, 
Im satisfied Santander has considered their application fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr A and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman