DRN-2851858
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was unable to access his online account from Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) and he was unhappy with the information provided to him about the IT issue.
Mr F wants Barclays to apologise and refund him two monthly fees that they have taken 
while he couldnt access his account online.
What happened
On 26 September 2020, Mr F tried to log on to his Barclays account using his iPad but was 
unable to gain access. Mr F tried again on 28 September and experienced the same 
message about having successfully logged out.
Mr F called Barclays to report the issue and was told that there was a problem with the 
system, and it was being investigated. Barclays said that the issue seemed to arise from an 
Apple software release that wasnt compatible with some older iPads.
On 2 October 2020, Mr F called Barclays again and the agent suggested a workaround 
using another operating system like Firefox. The agent said that the IT team were still 
investigating a solution.
Mr F called Barclays again on 16 October 2020 saying that he still couldnt log into his 
account. Barclays said it was still investigating and Mr F asked if Barclays were going to 
issue a statement advising clients about the issue. The agent asked if Mr F wanted to raise a 
complaint at this point.
On 26 October 2020, Mr F called again saying he still couldnt log in and was getting emails 
from Barclays about his monthly fees. A complaint was raised.
On 28 November, Barclays sent their final response to the complaint. They explained that 
they were unable to uphold the complaint as the investigation discovered that the issue was 
caused by the Apple iOS update and was not Barclays specific. Barclays said that any 
devices which were not able to run the new system release would have a vulnerability which 
would compromise security of the Barclays platform. 
Barclays said that they could no longer support this older version of the operating system 
and were sorry for the inconvenience.
Unhappy with Barclays decision, Mr F referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong and didnt think the complaint should succeed.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr F has asked for an Ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for 
much the same reasons and I wont be upholding the complaint.
Mr Fs complaint is split into two parts  that he couldnt get access to his account due to an 
IT issue and that he was charged by Barclays during the time that he couldnt log onto his 
account. Ill answer each one in turn.
IT issues that prevented Mr F from logging on
The IT issue that prevented Mr F from logging into his account is technical in nature and I 
have seen what Barclays have said in their final decision to Mr F and their submission to the 
service.
From what I have seen, the IT issue arose from an Apple iOS release which meant that it 
affected older devices including the one that Mr F used to access his Barclays account.
Barclays have said that they were unable to implement a solution that allowed them to 
support the older version of the software system without compromising the security of the 
platform.
Its not the role of the service to say how Barclays run their business and although I 
sympathise with Mr F that he was unable to log into his account using his iPad, I think 
Barclays were entitled to make the decision to no longer support older versions of software. 
I have looked at information from the IT team at Barclays and I can see that they have 
explored options to see if they could make things work. As the issue wasnt just an issue that 
affected Barclays, I cant see that they have done anything wrong.
Mr F has complained that he wasnt fully informed about what Barclays were doing to fix the 
problem. I can understand Mr Fs frustrations as he couldnt log in and Barclays couldnt tell 
him when it was going to get fixed. 
As I said before, I cant tell Barclays how to run the service and they chose not to issue a 
statement to clients. I know that Mr F feels strongly about this but its not the role of the 
service to punish a business for any acts or omissions. 
Charges being applied during IT issue 
Mr F has complained that he continued to be charged monthly fees while he was unable to 
log into his account.
In their submission to the service, Barclays have said that Mr F was able to contact Barclays 
using alternative means and they would not be refunding charges for an issue that was 
essentially caused by a third party.
I know that Mr F has said that he used the service for a wide range of services and not just 
trading shares. I acknowledge this but the monthly fee that Barclays charge includes other 
things such as custody fees that would apply while Mr F held assets within the account. 
I cant see that Barclays have done anything wrong in charging the monthly fee. The IT issue 
was caused by a third party and Barclays attempted to try and identify a solution. Im not 
going to ask Barclays to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman