DRN-4279308
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the actions of Santander UK Plc after he fell victim of an 
authorised pushed payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand that Mr M has said he would like his complaint to be considered 
in light of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). But Santander are under no 
obligation to refund the money to Mr M under the CRM Code, as the Code only 
applies to payments made to another person (which wouldnt have been the case 
here given the payments were made to Mr Ms own WorldRemit account before 
being moved on to the scammer).
Its not in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payments in question. On each 
occasion Mr M transferred the funds to his WorldRemit account from his Santander 
account (where the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer). While I 
accept that Mr M didnt intend for his money to go to the scammer, under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance as the payments were authorised by him. This is unless there is 
sufficient evidence that Santander should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
protect Mr M.
Santander does have a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and one of 
the reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Santander needs to have systems 
in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its 
consumers are at risk of fraud. With that in mind, Ive considered whether Santander 
should have considered these payments as being sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it ought to have given it sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Santanders 
systems to have been triggered by the payments in dispute. I say this because the 
first payment which was made to Mr Ms WorldRemit account was for £301.99 on 30 
October 2022. And when considering Mr Ms previous spending on the account I am 
satisfied this wasnt remarkably large or significantly uncharacteristic of Mr Ms usual 
spending. 
I accept this wasnt the only payment Mr M made. When considering the other 
payments in dispute, the highest amount transferred was £440 on 17 November 
2022. Again, when considering Mr Ms previous expenditure this transaction wasnt 
remarkably large or significantly uncharacteristic of Mr Ms usual spending. 
I have also considered that Mr M feels Santander ought to have realised that on 30 
October 2022 it was Mr Ms first transfer to WorldRemit from his Santander account. 
As such he feels it ought to have intervened. But this account was in Mr Ms name. 
Therefore, there were no suspicious circumstances surrounding this either. 
Consequently, I dont think Santander could reasonably have known that these 
payments were subject of a scam. I have to bear in mind that if banks such as 
Santander were to be expected to intervene with every payment of a similar size to 
the ones being disputed here - and to an account in a consumers own name - it could 
risk grinding the banking system to a halt.
For the reasons I have explained above, I am satisfied that the amounts disputed 
were not remarkably large or significantly uncharacteristic of Mr Ms pattern of 
behaviour from his Santander account. Consequently, I dont think Santander could 
reasonably have known that these payments were subject of a scam. The payments 
were not significant enough to have triggered its systems; nor were there sufficient 
grounds to justify delaying the payments.
I have gone on to consider if Santander took reasonable steps to try and recover the 
funds. Its important to note that Mr M didnt ask Santander to send the money 
directly to the scammers but instead to an account in his name. So, I am persuaded 
that it was highly unlikely that Santander would be able to facilitate the recovery of 
the payments after they were moved on from Mr Ms WorldRemit account to the 
scammers. So, I dont think I can hold Santander responsible for Mr M being unable 
to recover his funds.
All things considered, and despite my natural empathy for this cruel scam and the situation 
Mr M finds himself in having lost his money, Im not persuaded Santander taking different 
actions would have prevented the payments being made, or the loss that ensued, for the 
reasons I have explained. It follows that I do not consider it fair or reasonable to require 
Santander to do anything beyond what it has already done for this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman