DRN-3567141
The complaint
Mr H says after he made a claim on his car insurance policy, Zurich Insurance PLC and its 
agent provided poor service, caused delays and didnt pay him enough for his written-off car.  
What happened
Mr Hs car was badly damaged in an accident on 29 February 2020. No other vehicle was 
involved, and his car was initially left in a garden. A salvage firm (firm C) needed to collect it 
so the car could be assessed, but it had problems contacting Mr H. Despite liaising with his 
broker, it couldnt recover the car for some time, and after that contact was still difficult. 
On 16 April 2021 Mr H told Zurich that firm C had persistently tried to contact him by phone - 
which he thought bordered on harassment  and that he was unhappy that the claim hadnt 
been settled.  Zurich replied in May 2021 to say that firm C had been told not to contact him 
again. It also apologised for contacting Mr H by email (rather than by post, as requested) 
and offered him £200 compensation. Zurich pointed out that its claims team had offered Mr 
H £3,270 for his car in April 2021 and asked if he wanted to go ahead with the settlement. 
He replied in June 2021 to say that he wanted £5,000 for his car, no policy excess 
deduction, and £500 compensation from both Zurich and firm C. 
In June 2021 Zurich sent a final response letter to Mr H. It said if he provided evidence that 
his car was worth £5,000, it would consider it  but the £100 policy excess would still apply. 
In the meantime, the offer of £3,270 stood. It said £200 compensation was its final offer and 
that it wouldnt ask firm C to pay compensation. 
Mr H complained to us on 1 July 2021, a few days before he made a second complaint to 
Zurich  this time about the valuation. Whilst that complaint was ongoing, one of our 
investigators reviewed Mr Hs initial complaint. The investigator said Zurich had accepted 
that there were some delays and poor communication in the claims-handling. He thought it 
had offered Mr H fair compensation for that. He also noted that some of the delay was due to 
Zurich, firm C and Mr Hs broker not being able to contact Mr H, or not getting responses 
from him. The investigator said hed checked that the trade guide valuations we rely on were 
in line with the sum Zurich had offered Mr H for his car. He thought its offer was reasonable. 
Mr H said the investigator had made inaccurate and misleading comments and that hed still 
seen no evidence to show how the valuation had been arrived at. He also said the valuation 
should be based on prices in his local area. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The timeline Zurich provided shows that after firm C was finally able to collect Mr Hs car in 
June 2020 (when it was assessed as a total loss and valued) firm C and Mr Hs broker either 
couldnt contact him or failed to get a response from him. As Mr H hadnt responded to the 
total loss settlement offer firm C suggested, Zurich closed the claim in September 2020. In 
the circumstances, I dont think that was unreasonable. 
Zurich asked firm C to return the car to Mr H in November 2020. I think that was reasonable 
too, as it seems hed shown no interest in having the claim settled at that point. It appears 
that there was a delay in firm C trying to do that, but at some point, Mr H was made aware of 
what was happening, as he responded. A note on Zurichs file shows that he told firm C in 
April 2021 that if it returned the car to him, hed call the police. Mr H first complained to 
Zurich about firm Cs contact with him just after that call from it. 
The evidence Ive seen shows that Mr H wasnt contactable for a fair amount of the time in 
2020. It seems that was partly because he was unwell and in hospital, so I think its 
understandable that his availability and capacity to respond would have been limited. But 
Zurich can show that it and firm C tried to move the claim forward during 2020. 
Zurich has accepted that it caused some delays, and that it and firm C used the wrong form 
of communication at times when trying to contact Mr H. I think the compensation it offered 
him for that was reasonable. I also think it was reasonable for it to say that it wouldnt ask 
firm C to pay separate compensation. Although I can see it would have been frustrating for 
Mr H to get unwanted calls from firm C, and that he preferred not to respond to them, firm C 
was trying to move the claim on, which was in Mr Hs best interests. Initially, it couldnt 
progress until the car was collected and assessed, and after that, the proposed settlement 
couldnt go ahead without Mr Hs involvement. 
Zurich told us recently that in September 2021 it increased the offer it made in April 2021 for 
Mr Hs car after a review by its engineer. Firm C had valued the car previously, using the 
retail transacted valuations given in the trade guides, which is what insurers normally do. As 
thats in line with our approach to valuations, I think it was reasonable. But its open to an 
insurer to review a valuation. After a review, Zurichs engineer thought Mr Hs car was in 
excellent condition before the accident, with exceptionally low mileage. So he used the retail 
asking price valuation. That meant Zurich was able to offer a further £880 for the car.
Mr H didnt give us any evidence to show that his car was worth more than the sum Zurich 
offered him for it initially. A consumer has to do that if they want to dispute a valuation that 
seems to be reasonable. And he hasnt said why he thinks trade guide valuations shouldnt 
apply to the part of the UK where he lives. As Mr H hasnt provided any details about local 
prices that would put the accuracy of the figures Zurich used into doubt, I think its original 
offer was reasonable  and it has now improved it significantly. The £100 policy excess is 
payable on every claim, so I think it was also reasonable for Zurich to deduct it. 
We asked Mr H recently to clarify which of the points made by the investigator he thought 
were misleading and inaccurate. Mr H didnt provide any further details. He said hed only do 
so after he saw evidence of the valuations. But most of the points the investigator made in 
his view werent about the valuation. Unfortunately, as Mr H decided not to specify the ones 
he thought were misleading and inaccurate, Im not able to comment further on them.
I know Mr H will be unhappy with my findings. I appreciate that a long time elapsed after the 
accident when there was little progress, and that hes unhappy with the way Zurich dealt with 
the settlement. As he believes Zurich and firm C are at fault, I can see why he feels 
frustrated and upset. But I think Zurich was only partially to blame for what happened. I think 
it took his concerns seriously and tried to put right any shortcomings on its part. As I think it 
acted reasonably overall, I cant uphold Mr Hs complaint.   My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman