DRN-3157525
The complaint
Ms S complains about the customer service received from Bank of Scotland plc when 
dealing with her complaint.   
What happened
Ms S originally complained to our service about a payment of compensation from a travel 
agent which she felt Bank of Scotland should be responsible for. This complaint was 
resolved with Bank of Scotland agreeing to meet this payment as well as paying 
compensation for trouble caused to Ms S. 
During Bank of Scotlands complaints handling process, they sent a final response letter to 
Ms S not upholding her complaint. Ms S then contacted Bank of Scotland and asked for a 
copy of their letter and was told by the call handler that she could ask for a review. Ms S 
emailed Bank of Scotland with details of her complaint and asked for it to be reviewed. This 
review never took place as Bank of Scotland say our service became involved so they then 
started liaising with us to deal with the complaint. Ms S complained about Bank of Scotland 
not carrying out a second review. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms S. She thought Bank of Scotland hadnt acted 
unreasonably in not carrying out a second review. Ms S disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events here and can see Ms S refers her complaint to our 
service on 13 November 2019. On the same day, we email Bank of Scotland to ask for a 
copy of their file. They respond the following day and ask for a signed complaint form or a 
verbal declaration from Ms S before they can release their file.  
On 16 January 2020, Ms S calls Bank of Scotland and asks for a final response letter. Ive 
listened to this call and note the call handler explains this has been sent out. The call 
handler agrees to send a copy in the post. Ms S explains the findings are flawed and the call 
handler asks if Ms S is looking to take the matter further. The call handler says she can see 
they have received correspondence from our service and asks if Ms S is pursuing the 
complaint through us and Ms S says she is but would be willing to give Bank of Scotland 
another opportunity to look into things. 
The call handler explains shell send the final response letter and if Ms S wants to respond 
she can do so. The call handler explains her understanding of the process and says, once a 
complaint is referred to our service, we get in touch with a business and ask for a copy of 
their file. The call handler says she can see from the system that they have asked our 
service for a copy of Ms Ss signed complaint form. The call handler explains Ms S can 
review the final response and then get back to them or she can pursue the complaint 
through our service. During the call, the call handler emails Ms S so she has an email 
address to respond to with her reply to the final response letter. The call handler explains 
once they receive Ms Ss email it will be passed to a complaints manager but she cant 
guarantee they will come to a different decision on the complaint. The call handler explains 
Ms S should set out what shes unhappy about and they will review matters. Ms S then 
emails Bank of Scotland on 20 January setting out her complaint in detail, why she remains 
unhappy and asks for a review.    
On 5 February, we email Bank of Scotland and explain Ms S has given us permission to deal 
with her complaint through a verbal declaration and ask for their file. Ive listened to a call 
between Ms S and Bank of Scotland on 26 February and note the call handler explains they 
would now be liaising with our service when dealing with the complaint. The call handler 
explains once our service becomes involved they cant review it independently. Ms S 
explains she was told a review would take place and the call handler explains they didnt 
have a chance to carry out a review prior to our service becoming involved. Ms S says there 
was sufficient time to carry out a review but the call handler explains she did place the task 
in their work queue but they werent able to review it prior to our service getting involved.   
Ms S explains she has been given false hope and an expectation that a review would take 
place. The call handler explains she wasnt to know when our service would get involved.   
  
I do understand Ms Ss frustration here as, following a conversation with Bank of Scotland, 
she has decided to email them to ask for a review. The call handler does confirm a review 
will be carried out so I do think Ms S was given an expectation that she would get a 
response to the points she raised. So, while I certainly dont underestimate Ms Ss frustration 
at not receiving a second review, I think its important to consider what the call handler at 
Bank of Scotland knew at the point she spoke with Ms S on 16 January. 
The call handler noted from their system that Bank of Scotland had asked for a copy of Ms 
Ss complaint form. Looking at the timeline of events, we hadnt at that point provided any 
confirmation to Bank of Scotland that we had Ms Ss consent to look into things  either by 
way of a signed complaint form or a verbal declaration. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for the call handler to take the view that, despite the communication between our service and 
Bank of Scotland, we werent investigating the complaint at that stage. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for her to offer a second review. 
The review didnt take place, and Bank of Scotland say that was because our service then 
became involved. The timeline shows we did provide confirmation of Ms Ss consent to look 
into things on 5 February  which is just over two weeks after Ms Ss email to Bank of 
Scotland asking for a review. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to 
then take the view that they would step back from any further review and liaise with our 
service to deal with Ms Ss complaint. I do acknowledge Ms Ss point that Bank of Scotland 
couldve carried out their review prior to our service becoming involved, but the call handler 
explained the review was waiting in their work queue and hadnt yet been picked up. Given 
that there was a period of just over two weeks between Ms S setting out her reasons to 
support her request for a review and our service confirming the verbal declaration, I dont 
think it was unreasonable the review wasnt picked up by a complaints manager. 
I understand Ms S feels she has been misled but I dont believe there was any intention on 
the call handlers part to give Ms S an assurance she knows wouldnt have been met. The 
call handler clearly knew our service had been in communication but she didnt at that point 
know our service would provide confirmation of Ms Ss consent to look into things a few 
weeks later. Having listened to the call, I note the call handler gave Ms S options on how she wishes to progress her complaint and I believe her offer of a review was made in an effort to 
help Ms S get a second opinion on her complaint. 
I do fully acknowledge that Ms S had to spend time drafting her detailed email to Bank of 
Scotland on 20 January and I do understand why she feels this was time wasted given that 
the review never took place. But, I cant say Bank of Scotland have made an error here as 
Ive seen no information to suggest they never had any intention of carrying out a review. I 
agree it didnt take place but this was as a result of our service providing confirmation of Ms 
Ss consent  something which the call handler wouldnt have anticipated at the time she 
offered Ms S a second review. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman