DRN-4309849
The complaint
Miss F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has failed to refund over £23,000 she 
lost to a cryptocurrency investment scam in March 2022 after being contacted on social 
media by a scammer. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Miss F fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam after 
she was contacted by two individuals on Instagram claiming to be brokers from 
Perfectmegatrade.com and Todaysstockmarket.net. 
Over the space of around two weeks, Miss F transferred over £23,000 to the scammers via 
crypto wallets she opened as part of the scam. She realised it wasnt a legitimate investment 
when the scammers kept asking for more money to withdraw her profits, and eventually 
stopped responding to her altogether. HSBC refused to refund the money Miss F lost as it 
said she had authorised the payments.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that HSBC should have intervened in the 
payment of £9,000 Miss F made on 13 April 2022 and thought that this would have likely 
prevented any further losses. As a result, the investigator recommended that HSBC refund 
the money Miss F lost from this payment onwards. HSBC disagreed, so the matter was 
escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 24 July 2023. I said I was minded to 
uphold it, but on a slightly different basis to the investigator, and set out the following 
reasons:
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Miss F has fallen victim to a scam here. And 
having reviewed the evidence she has provided. Im also not persuaded the 
merchants had honest intentions, but instead set out to defraud Miss F of her money. 
It is also common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Miss F for 
the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force 
at the time. This is because they were made by her using the legitimate security 
credentials provided by HSBC. But having concluded that this was a scam, its also 
necessary to consider whether the disputed payments were unusual or 
uncharacteristic enough for Miss Fs account such that they ought reasonably to 
have triggered an intervention by HSBC.
It isnt in dispute that the £500 payment Miss F made to Moonpay on 4 April 2022 
from her HSBC account was unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud 
prevention systems and was automatically blocked pending further enquiry. 
Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with that intervention.
When HSBC spoke to Miss F over the phone, it asked her about the nature of the 
payment she was making, to which she was upfront and told it that she was investing 
in Bitcoin for the first time. But then instead of asking for further details about the 
investment opportunity and how she came across it, HSBC instead recommended 
that Miss F verbally confirm the account details with the beneficiary. She later called 
back and explained how she had obtained the account details, and also gave further 
information about being able to see her investments on a platform. However, this 
prompted no further questioning or line of inquiry from HSBC about the context of the 
investment she was making, and the payment was released.
I understand our investigator considered this level of intervention to be proportionate 
given the relatively low value of the payment being made. But based on the 
information Miss F had given HSBC during the calls on 4 April 2022, I think it had a 
clear opportunity to prevent the scam at that point, which I think it couldve likely done 
if it had simply probed further into the answers Miss F provided. When she said she 
was investing in cryptocurrency for the first time, for example, this should have 
instantly prompted the bank to ask further questions about the nature of the 
investment and how she found it, given the high risks of fraud and scams inherent in 
this form of trading. However, HSBC didnt ask any such questions and instead 
mainly focussed on how she had obtained the account details and whether she had 
checked who she was paying.
If HSBC had instead asked for more of the basic surrounding context, it would have 
likely established that she had been contacted out of the blue by two people on social 
media, who were encouraging her to invest in cryptocurrency. It couldve also 
established that they had coached her through opening different crypto wallets to 
send money to, where she was then being instructed to send Bitcoin on to further 
wallets  all of which are typical features of these sorts of investment scams. I have 
no reason to doubt that Miss F wouldnt have been upfront about what she was 
doing. She hasnt said she was coached by the scammers to deceive the bank, for 
example, and she readily told it that she was investing in cryptocurrency when she 
was asked. 
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Miss F from HSBC on 4 April 2022 would have 
probably led her to discover that she was likely being scammed and exposed the 
brokers false pretences. Even if Miss F had not worked out that this was a scam, it is 
likely that a warning would have alerted her to the common issues arising in relation 
to cryptocurrency scams, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind the 
supposed brokers representations. This would have probably stopped Miss F in her 
tracks. So, but for HSBCs failure to act on clear indications of potential fraud or 
financial harm during its call with Miss F on 4 April 2022, she probably wouldnt have 
lost her money.
I appreciate that Miss F was presented with a scam warning when she selected 
making an investment for the payment she made on 13 April 2022. But this warning 
was about investment and pensions scams in general. I dont think it was tailored or 
specific enough to the circumstances of the scam she was falling victim to. So, I dont 
think this is enough to say that Miss F wouldve likely ignored any specific warning 
HSBC could have given her over the phone when she spoke to it on 4 April 2022. 
And Im persuaded that such a warning from an actual person from HSBC would 
have been more impactful and prevented any further losses. I therefore intend asking 
HSBC to refund the money Miss F lost from the £500 payment she made on 4 April 
2022 onwards. 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Miss F can fairly or reasonably be blamed for what happened, and I dont think she could have 
reasonably foreseen the risk of this sort of harm. 
Miss F has explained that she checked whether any of the investment brokers 
featured on the FCA warning list, which they didnt. She also says she validated both 
sites using a Google safe browser transparency report which stated that no unsafe 
content had been found on either site. I also cannot see that there was any negative 
information or warnings online about either Perfectmegatrade.com or 
Todaysstockmarket.net at the time. So, even if Miss F could have carried out further 
checks, its unlikely this wouldve led to her discovering that the brokers were likely 
operating a scam.  
HSBC also say it was implausible of Miss F to think she would have to pay more than 
the value of her original investment in order to withdraw funds from the platform. But I 
dont agree. Its very common for investment scammers to manipulate fake trading 
platforms to make their victim think they have made significant profits in order to 
encourage them to either invest more, or to pay large withdrawal/commission fees in 
order to access the money, as was the case here. And given Miss F had been led to 
believe she had made a lot more than she originally invested, I dont think it was 
wholly unreasonable of her  as a first-time investor  to think that she would need to 
pay certain fees and commissions to access her funds, particularly when scammers 
are very adept at persuading their victims that they wont receive any profits without 
paying such fees upfront.
Overall, I do not think Miss F could have foreseen the risk that the company she was 
dealing with was a scam and the trading account she was viewing was likely to be a 
simulation. In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce 
compensation on the basis that she should share blame for what happened.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Miss F accepted my provisional 
findings and proposals, but HSBC disagreed. In summary, it said:
It still considers its questioning of Miss F to have been proportionate when it spoke to 
her about the payment she made on 4 April 2022 and doesnt believe she would 
have revealed further information if it had asked further questions.
It considers a reasonable person would have foreseen the risk of harm such that 
Miss F should be held jointly liable for her loss. 
The majority of payments made as part of the scam appear to have been made from 
a savings account, so any interest awarded should be limited to the rate of that 
account rather than 8% simple interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also carefully considered the points put forward by HSBC in response to my 
provisional decision. And aside from the rate of interest I originally intended awarding in this 
case, my conclusions and outcome otherwise remain unchanged. 
Intervention and Causation
HSBC considers its line of questioning to have been proportionate and doesnt think it would have obtained honest responses from her. I acknowledge that a payment of £500 would not 
normally be enough in itself to trigger an intervention by a bank. But the fact is in this case, it 
did trigger HSBCs fraud prevention systems. So, given it had the opportunity to ask Miss F 
about the nature of the payment, I wouldve expected it to have asked appropriate questions, 
which includes responding and asking for further information in light of the information given 
by its customer. It cannot simply ignore certain risk factors that can be identified in the 
answers Miss F gave just because it was a low value payment. 
In any event, its clear that HSBC already had concerns about who Miss F was paying, as it 
blocked the payment and asked her to double check the account details with the beneficiary. 
But what it didn't do was ask detailed enough questions in light of those concerns. 
HSBC says that its suggestion to call the beneficiary was a result of Miss F saying the 
payment details had been received by email, which would have led her back to Moonpay, 
rather than the scammer. But given she was seemingly transferring money to her own crypto 
wallet with Moonpay  where she said she was investing in cryptocurrency for the first time  
the fact that she had received payment details from another beneficiary via email ought to 
have been enough cause for concern and prompted questions around who was sending her 
these payment details, rather than simply asking her to check they were correct.
HSBC says that during the second call it had with Miss F, where it was asking about how 
she could see her investments performing, that it would have been the ideal time for her to 
mention either of the merchants she was investing with. However, Miss F was a first-time 
investor and was simply responding to the questions HSBC was asking. The bank is the 
professional in financial matters here and ought to have known to ask for this information in 
light of its knowledge about cryptocurrency scams, rather than expecting Miss F to know 
what sort of information to offer up. Miss F cannot fairly be held at fault for failing to give 
information to questions that HSBC did not ask.
HSBC has also suggested that Miss F gave an inaccurate answer when she said that no 
third party was asking or forcing her to make the payment. But I don't consider this to be an 
inaccurate answer. Miss F was not being asked or forced to make the payment by a third 
party. She was making the payment of her own volition under the guise of an investment. 
Based on the phone calls I have listened to, Miss F answered HSBC's questions honestly 
and accurately, and I still dont consider there to be enough persuasive evidence to suggest 
that she was coached to lie to the bank or would have likely been dishonest if it had asked 
her further questions. HSBC has pointed towards Miss F at one stage selecting the option 
buying goods or services as the reason for her payment. But again, this does not suggest 
that Miss F had been told to lie to the bank. She simply chose this option as she was buying 
cryptocurrency, which isnt incorrect in the context of the payment she was making. 
Overall, Im still not persuaded HSBC did enough when it spoke to Miss F over the phone. It 
failed to respond appropriately to the answers she was giving and instead gave unhelpful 
advice that wouldnt help Miss F protect herself in the context of a cryptocurrency investment 
scam. In my judgment, it missed a clear opportunity to prevent any further loss, so the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision remain unchanged. 
Contributory negligence
HSBC also submits that Miss F should be held jointly liable for her loss. It has said that a 
reasonable person would not think it reasonable to pay around £23,000 in fees to access the 
profits of their investment, and that her returns must have been too good to be true. 
Ive already set out why I dont think it would be fair to hold Miss F jointly liable in this case, 
which still stands. I accept that Miss F may have been naive to think that she would have to pay as much money as she did in withdrawal fees in order to access her money. But I don't 
consider this amounts to negligence, or that she could be considered as having courted an 
unreasonable risk in this instance. 
Miss F was not an experienced investor. And given the returns some legitimate investors 
have seen through investing in cryptocurrency, I don't think it was wholly unreasonable for 
her to have thought she could make significant profits. Cryptocurrency does not work in the 
same way as investing in traditional assets such as stocks and shares, and the volatility of 
cryptocurrency means that high returns (as well as significant losses) are often possible. 
And, as I set out in my provisional decision, Miss F also would not have found any adverse 
information about either of the merchants online at the time. So, HSBC's comments have not 
altered my conclusions with regards to contributory negligence, and I still don't consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Miss F jointly liable in the circumstances of this case.  
Interest
In terms of HSBCs arguments about the rate of interest applied, I can see that the majority 
of the money Miss F lost as part of the scam was paid in from her savings account. Miss F 
has also confirmed that this is correct.
I appreciate that Miss Fs savings account may not have been the sole source of funds lost 
to the scam. But having reviewed her statements, it certainly accounts for the vast majority 
of it. As a result, instead of 8% simple interest, I consider it would be fair and reasonable to 
instead awarded interest at the applicable savings account rate, as this is closer to what 
Miss F wouldve otherwise earned, had her money not been lost to the scam. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund the money Miss F lost to the scam from the payment she made on 
4 April 2022 onwards. 
Pay interest on this amount at the applicable savings account rate at the time, from 
the date the payments were made to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman