DRN-4109983
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) disclosed her new address to a 
third-party when she contacted it to update her address details.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case  my intention was to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with anything else they wanted me to take into account before I issued my final 
decision. I have summarised the background of this complaint below: 
Miss H moved home and so she got in touch with Barclays to update her address. 
Unbeknown to Miss H, her profile was connected with a family members profile, and 
Barclays sent correspondence to this family member with Miss Hs new address on it. 
Miss H says that the impact this has had on her has been great. Shes said that she moved 
away from the family member because she has a very difficult and abusive relationship with 
them. She says that once she felt safe in the new town, after six years, she decided to 
purchase a property. Almost a month after she moved into the new property, the family 
member turned up at her door  and they have been sending Miss H letters ever since.
Miss H had previously made every effort not to let the family member know where she was 
living, so she could keep both herself and her daughter safe. And she says she is now at a 
loss of what to do because of Barclays mistake. 
Barclays made numerous offers to Miss H to compensate her for its mistake. The final offer 
being £5,000 compensation and the cost of getting a non-molestation order. But Miss H 
didnt feel like this offer came close to acknowledging the impact its mistake had had on her 
life, and so she referred her complaint to this service. 
The Investigator looked into things for Miss H, but they didnt uphold her complaint. While 
they fully empathised with Miss Hs situation and agreed that Barclays had made a mistake 
with large consequences to Miss Hs life, the Investigator thought that Barclays offer of 
£5,000 and to pay for a non-molestation order was a fair way to put things right. 
Miss H didnt agree, she still felt that the compensation awarded didnt come close to 
reflecting the impact Barclays mistake had on her, and so she asked for an Ombudsman to 
make a decision on the matter.
I issued my provisional decision on this case, and I have copied my provisional findings 
below, which also form part of this final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, it is my current intention to uphold 
Miss Hs complaint, albeit not to the extent I think she wants. 
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Miss Hs situation. Its clear that shes been 
through a very difficult time which has, understandably, caused her much upset. In reaching 
my provisional conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation 
Miss H is now in. Ive no doubt what has happened to her has been truly horrible. And I have 
no doubt that the impact of the error caused by Barclays has made an already bad situation 
much worse.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties 
have said. Its probably also worth noting here that it isnt the role of this service to punish or 
fine businesses. But this services role is to look at the impact that the error had on that 
particular consumer in their particular circumstances. 
There isnt a dispute here over the facts of what happened  both Barclays and Miss H 
agree that Barclays made a mistake whereby her address details were disclosed to a family 
member, and the impact on Miss H has been great. The disagreement here is on the fair 
way to put things right. 
Ill start by noting that in these circumstances, its impossible for Barclays to put right the 
mistake it has made  disclosing Miss Hs new address cant now be undone and she 
remains living in a home where she feels worried about her, and her daughters safety. 
When something like this happens, its very difficult to put a price on the distress caused. 
I have spoken to Miss H, and she is clearly very upset, worried and at a loss of what to do 
next. Shes explained that shes suffered PTSD, shes had to take time of work through 
stress, and she now lives in constant worry that the family member will either come round to 
her home or shell receive some other form of communication from them. 
When considering an award for distress and inconvenience, I have thought very carefully 
about everything Miss H has told me about how Barclays mistake has impacted her. And 
Ive taken into account this services usual approach to distress and inconvenience awards  
more information about this can be found on our website. And having done so, I currently 
find that the £5,000 Barclays has already paid Miss H for its error is fair. 
Theres no doubt that the mistake Barclays made has had and will have a long-lasting 
impact on Miss H. I am also aware that her mental health has suffered as a result. And the 
reality here is that theres isnt really an amount of compensation that undo any of this. This 
services general approach is that where a mistake has caused sustained distress, which 
affects someones health and or where the mistake is irreversible and has a lasting impact 
on someones health, then an award of up to £5,000 might be appropriate. I agree that Miss 
H will likely fit into this category, and so I also agree that the higher limit award of £5,000 is 
appropriate here. 
I do though only find that this award is fair in compensating Miss H for the distress shes 
been through - any other financial losses she may incur as a result will be considered 
separately. 
I have spoken to Miss H about what she needs to do now to feel safe. It has been very 
difficult for Miss H to make a decision about what needs to happen next  and this is 
understandable. She has explained that moving home would be too difficult  because shed 
have to change her daughters school and potentially find a new job, which isnt something 
she wants to do. 
Barclays has already offered to pay the cost of a non-molestation order. Miss H has said that 
she doesnt want to do this because putting the family member through this could have 
serious consequences on their mental health, which Miss H also doesnt want to happen. I can understand the reasons Miss H wouldnt want to do this but given that Miss H is still 
undecided about what needs to happen next, I think Barclays should still offer to pay the 
costs of getting this, if Miss H does change her mind. 
Miss H also spoke about the possibility of getting a security system installed at her home. I 
think this is a reasonable request. Doing so could help Miss H feel safer. So, I intend to order 
Barclays to pay the costs of Miss H getting home security, and the costs of having this 
installed  up to a limit of £1,000. Miss H would need to provide Barclays with proof of 
purchase and an invoice for labour costs and Barclays should reimburse this to Miss H. 
I know this isnt the outcome Miss H was hoping for. And Im sorry if she feels disappointed 
by this provisional decision. However, based on everything Ive read and been told so far, I 
currently find that the £5,000 Barclays has already paid Miss H is fair. And I currently find 
that Barclays should pay for a non-molestation order (if Miss H asks it to do so) and a 
security system to be installed in Miss Hs home (if Miss H provides proof of purchase and 
an invoice for labour costs). 
If Miss H chooses to do either of these things, she will need to do so, and provide Barclays 
with evidence of the costs within six months of the date of the final decision. 
Barclays responded to the provisional decision to say it accepted my findings. 
Miss H responded and explained she didnt speak to Barclays about the offers it presented 
to her. However, she did say she fed back when Barclays removed the offer to cover the 
cost of moving house. Miss H explained that when she initially spoke to the Investigator, her 
complaint wasnt about compensation  however she says on reflection of whats happened, 
she doesnt feel that £5,000 is enough. 
Miss H added that the process to receiving the compensation was clunky. She explained 
that the compensation was initially sent to her credit card when she asked for it to be sent to 
her current account. To put this right she had to spend hours on the phone to Barclays. 
She says the family member wrote to her on her birthday, and they turned up when Miss H 
was working from home in October. She explained that Barclays also sent the family 
members credit card bill to her address which was a breach of data. 
Miss H stated that she was disappointed by the provisional decision, but happy with the offer 
of security systems at her current home. Miss H added that she has had her house valued 
and she is currently looking for alternative jobs and locations to live  however she added 
that these are initial enquiries only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything again in detail, and having done so, I have changed the 
direction from my provisional decision slightly. 
Miss H has made comment about the process Barclays went through to pay her the 
compensation, and that it sent this to her credit card instead of her current account. This isnt 
something I can comment on, because essentially this relates to how Barclays handled Miss 
Hs complaint, which isnt a regulated activity. Miss H did receive the compensation, so I 
dont think she has lost out here. Ive also considered what Miss H has said about Barclays sending a letter meant for the 
family member, to her address. However, the impact of this would be to the family member 
and not Miss H. So, I wont be asking Barclays to increase the compensation award for this. 
I note that Miss H has been unsure about how to move forward. More recently, she says that 
she is currently considering moving home and relocating. Ive thought about this point very 
carefully when coming to my decision. It is understandable that Miss H is unsure or unclear 
about what she wants to do next in order to keep both herself and her daughter safe. With 
this in mind, if Miss H would rather move, than have a new security system installed at her 
current property, then I think it would be fair for Barclays to instead cover Miss Hs moving 
costs of up to £1,000  and Miss H would need to provide Barclays with proof of payment for 
the moving costs within six months of the date of this decision.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss H, I order Barclays to: 
Either reimburse Miss H the cost of purchasing and installing security systems at her 
home, up to the value of £1,000. Proof of purchase and/or installation must be 
provided to Barclays within six months of the date of this decision. 
Or
Reimburse Miss Hs moving costs up to the value of £1,000. Proof of these costs 
must be provided to Barclays within six months of the date of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Hs complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to put things right for Miss H by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman