DRN-2863381
The complaint
 Miss M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss M was given a logbook loan of around £2,981 by Loans2Go in September 2009. The 
loan was secured against a vehicle that she owned and was repayable in 182 weekly 
instalments of around £84 (about £367 monthly) over 42 months. The total amount payable if 
the loan ran to term, including interest, was just over £15,415.
I understand Miss M ran into difficulties repaying the loan, but it was eventually settled in 
2013. 
When Miss M complained to this Service she said this was the second loan that she had 
taken with Loans2Go. Miss M said she had wanted a top up to her first loan but she had to 
take a completely new loan. I havent seen any information about the first loan but in any 
event, Miss M has confirmed that she only wanted to complain about the second loan, so my 
decision deals solely with the loan that Miss M took in September 2009. 
Loans2Go thought that too much time had passed for the complaint to be considered. But 
following an ombudsmans decision that this Service could look into the matter, an 
adjudicator looked into the complaint. She thought Loans2Go shouldnt have provided Miss 
M with the loan and she asked the lender to put things right. Loans2Go didnt agree with 
adjudicators assessment so the complaint passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ms complaint.
I think there are overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown at the time?
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss M 
irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
she could repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a 
borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Loans2Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss 
M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans2Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer, such as their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications 
of vulnerability or financial difficulty and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the lending is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Miss M. 
Loans2Go says it checked Miss Ms income and expenditure and requested bank 
statements. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Loans2Go carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances.
However I dont think that Loans2Go made a fair lending decision on this occasion and I will 
explain why.
Loans2Go established that Miss M was receiving benefits and that she was living at home 
with her family. I have considered the level of benefits that Miss M received and the amount 
she had to repay each month to Loans2Go. I think the lender ought reasonably to have 
realised that Miss M would be committing a very significant proportion of her monthly 
benefits income to repay the loan and that this put her at risk of experiencing significant 
financial difficulties. Loans2Go says it recognises how much Miss Ms contractual 
instalments were compared to her monthly benefit income. But it says that the agreement 
was taken out during a face to face meeting and that Miss M told Loans2Go that as she lived 
with her parents she did not have significant outgoings.
Loans2Go may have assessed that, on the face of it, the loan was affordable for Miss M. But 
I think that Loans2Go focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable on a 
pounds and pence basis. As Ive already explained, the lender was responsible for 
establishing whether Miss M could sustainably meet her loan repayments  not just whether 
the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in 
particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be 
able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
This was an expensive loan, repayable over an extended period. Ive thought carefully about 
what Loans2Go has said about Miss Ms circumstances. But overall, I think Loans2Go ought 
reasonably to have realised that even though Miss M might have had limited household 
outgoings, she would most likely still have other personal expenses. I think Loans2Go ought 
reasonably to have recognised that Miss M would still be at risk of experiencing financial 
difficulties as the monthly loan repayments represented such a significant proportion of her 
benefit income  which she had to maintain every month for around three and a half years. 
In these particular circumstances, I think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have concluded that 
Miss M would most likely struggle to repay the loan on a sustainable basis and that it was 
not appropriate to provide loan to her.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans2Go treated Miss M unfairly in any 
other way. But I dont think it should have provided the loan to her. So Loans2Go needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss M to have repaid the principal amount that she 
borrowed in 2009, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and 
charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. 
Loans2Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments 
Miss M made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Miss Ms loan account results in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans2Go should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled*. 
Loans2Go might have already returned the logbook to Miss M, but if it has not 
done this, it should cancel the bill of sale and return the V5 document to her once 
any outstanding capital has been repaid.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to 
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans2Go 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman