DRN-3029231
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2006. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading a Sainsburys, (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mrs F 
has told us she was employed at the time of the sale, had been there nine years, didnt have 
savings or anything else to pay her card with if she couldnt work. Also, from what shes told 
us, she wasnt entitled to anything more than statutory pay for sickness or redundancy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint - but my colleague thought BoSs offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mrs F paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Fs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Fs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that BoSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mrs F has said the PPI was just included on her card. BoS hasnt been able to give us 
details of the screens Mrs F saw when she applied for her card online. But what BoS has 
provided makes me think on balance its more likely BoS made it clear Mrs F didnt have 
to take the PPI and she chose to take it. For example, the credit agreement she signed 
to take the card had a separate box for her to tick and sign if she wanted the PPI. In the 
box it said: I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayments Cover. Mrs F ticked and signed 
in this box, separately from signing for the card itself. Also, the summary BoS sent her of 
her card application described the repayments cover as something she had requested.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs F enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take the cover, and I dont think shed have 
done so without at least a broad idea of what cover it provided - so it looks to me like she 
wanted this type of cover. It looks like the cover was affordable for her and, bearing in 
mind the benefit it could pay, it couldve been useful given what shes told us about her 
work benefits and savings. Also, nothing about her job or employment wouldve made it 
hard for her to claim.
Mrs F couldnt have claimed for work absences if due to chronic or pre-existing health 
issues she had  and there were more onerous evidential requirements for claims for 
mental health conditions. But Mrs F hasnt told us she ever missed work with the issue 
shed first had treated around five years before the sale. And Ive nothing to suggest the 
other health issue shes told us of was of concern after the operation she had. In light of 
all shes told us, what I have doesnt, on balance, make me think Mrs Fs decision to take 
the cover wouldve changed if shed been told more about these terms and exclusions.
With all Ive said above in mind, I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for 
Mrs F and, taking everything into account, on balance I dont think she wouldve declined 
it had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back conditions, 
in light of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. So I think she wouldve still 
thought she had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mrs F wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time, 
given her circumstances at the time. And, in those circumstances, I think that she wouldve 
taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Fs representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mrs Fs representatives havent said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Fs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
BoSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BoS didnt tell Mrs F about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
BoS and Mrs F was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because BoS 
didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs F, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Fs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs F should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Mrs F about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mrs F wouldnt have taken the policy 
had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs F in order to remedy the unfairness caused by BoS not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Fs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BoSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for BoS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs F paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs F 
with the policy Ive concluded above she wouldve still taken if BoS had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that BoSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Fs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that  
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mrs F an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) - if 
it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman