DRN-4166632
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) didnt do more to 
help him when he struggled with the interest charges being applied to his credit card 
account.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr A opened a credit card account with VM that was interest free for a set 
period. After 11 May 2022  the credit card began to accrue interest. Mr A said he asked VM 
for help as the additional interest charges meant he would struggle to maintain his 
payments. He said he called VM several times but didnt get the help he asked for and he 
was met with rudeness. He also said a promised call back wasnt made. He complained to 
VM.
VM said theyd listened to the calls and hadnt found any rudeness. They said their agents 
had tried to help Mr A. They also said the interest had been applied to Mr As account 
correctly. But they acknowledged that Mr A had been inconvenienced when one of his calls 
couldnt progress because their security procedures hadnt been followed properly. They 
offered Mr A £25 as a gesture of good will for this.
Mr A wasnt happy with VMs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said VM had acted in line with the accounts terms and conditions. But their 
customer service had failed when Mr A wasnt called back as promised. Our investigator 
said that VM had put things right by apologising and offering Mr A £25.
Mr A didnt agree. He said VM hadnt helped him despite him saying several times that he 
was struggling to meet his repayment commitments. And that they should have done more.
Our investigator explained that Mr A appeared to be managing his account well and that 
there wasnt any evidence that he was struggling to meet his minimum payments.
Mr A disagreed, he said VM hadnt offered him any assistance in helping to meet his 
commitments unlike his other bank. He asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand my decision will disappoint Mr A but for me to ask VM to do something 
differently I must find that they have acted unfairly and unreasonably and having looked at 
the evidence provided I dont think they have. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr As frustration. And I sympathise with the situation he found himself in. I 
can see that he tried to prevent his account falling behind in his payments by proactively 
seeking help from VM before it reached this position. Mr A said he not only  contacted VM 
but also his other bank for help. Mr A says VM didnt do as much as the other bank to help 
him as they still applied interest and charges to his account  even when he was paying off 
the balance. 
So Ive looked at how VM responded to Mr As circumstances. 
Mr A opened his credit card account with VM in March 2020 as there was a promotional rate 
of 0% interest on balance transfers. Mr A carried out a balance transfer of £5,022 in March 
2020 and there was an administration fee of £72.82. The promotional rate ended in May 
2022.
When Mr A took out the credit card account VM sent him their terms and conditions. These 
said:
We will not charge interest on Card Purchases and related fees, as long as you pay the 
balance shown on your statement (excluding any instalment plans and transfers on a 
promotional rate) by the payment date. Otherwise, we will charge interest each day on all 
transactions and related fees, on unpaid interest and on any other amounts, from the date 
they are added to your account until you pay them off in Full."
So this is why, when the introductory rate expired, Mr A was charged interest on his credit 
card balance. There wasnt any interest applied initially when he didnt pay his statement 
balance in full. But when Mr As promotional interest rate ended, he was charged interest on 
any outstanding balance and subsequent purchases. So, Mr A would have always been 
charged interest  in line with the credit agreement - that he agreed to when opening the 
account when he didnt pay the statement balance in full. I can see VM provided Mr A with 
sufficient documentation that made clear that interest would be applied if there was an 
outstanding balance at the end of the promotional period  May 2022. 
It was from June 2022 that  Mr A started to contact VM about the interest being charged. I 
can see that when Mr A contacted VM in June 2022 they agreed to waive the interest charge 
for that month as Mr A was concerned about exceeding his credit limit. He was also advised 
to get back in touch if he was experiencing financial difficulties.
The relevant guidance for a lender when a consumer tells them they are struggling to meet 
their financial commitments is CONC chapter 7, which says lenders should have clear 
effective and appropriate arrears policies and how they should treat consumers who are in 
default or arrears. Ive seen Mr As credit card statements from May 2022 until March 2023 
and these show that he was making the minimum repayments. And the account wasnt in 
arrears or default. Mr A did on occasion exceed his credit limit but each time he brought the 
account back within its limits.
Mr A has said hed made it very clear when he asked for help that the interest being applied 
was causing him financial difficulty. Ive listened to the calls and in one call Mr A says that its 
not about being unable to make the minimum payment, its that the interest being applied to 
the account was too high. And he wanted VM to freeze the interest being applied to the 
account. And in a later call VM checked with their specialist team as to the help that they 
could offer Mr A, but as confirmed with Mr A, the crux of his call was about the rate of  
interest that was being applied to the account rather than his inability to meet his credit 
commitments.  And that Mr A was told that they couldnt change the rate of interest being 
applied.
I do acknowledge Mr As strength of feeling on this matter. Hes made it clear he believes the 
interest rate VM charges on his account is too high. But as Ive explained, I cant find that 
VM did anything wrong here or treated Mr A unfairly. VM are entitled to decide the interest 
rate they charge. That is a commercial decision, and not one this service is able to influence. I can see Mr A received monthly credit card statements which showed how the interest on 
his account was charged, the interest rate and an explanation of the interest rates applied. 
So, Im satisfied VM made it clear to Mr A what interest would be charged and from when. 
And that VM acted in line with the credit agreement that Mr A agreed to here. 
I can also see that VM has looked to assist Mr A when he has contacted them. But as our 
investigator found they didnt provide a call back after they said they would. VM has offered 
Mr A £25 compensation for their poor customer service which I agree with our investigator is 
a fair outcome to Mr As complaint.
My final decision
As I think Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money have put things right, I wont ask 
them to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2024.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman