DRN-3355977
The complaint
S have complained that one of Beneficial Life London Limiteds agents actions led to two 
motor fleet policies they had being cancelled, leaving them without insurance for their fleet 
of vans for two periods of time. And that this caused them inconvenience and financial 
loss.
For the sake of ease, Ive referred to Beneficial throughout this decision, even though I 
am actually referring in most cases to the actions of their agent.
What happened
Beneficial arranged a fleet policy for S which started on 25 April 2019. On 19 July 2019 
the underwriting agency who had provided the policy on behalf of the insurer wrote a letter 
saying the policy would be cancelled with effect from 26 July due to unpaid premium. It 
seems that, although this letter was addressed to S, it was sent to Beneficial. S found out 
this policy had been cancelled in September 2019, after making enquiries following a 
claim. This led to them not being able to use their vans for deliveries until a new policy 
was arranged by Beneficial with effect from 27 September 2019. This was with a different 
insurer. This policy was in force until 3 February 2020, when it was also cancelled due to 
the fact the premium had not been paid to the insurer. S have said this again left them 
with no insurance cover for their vans, which meant they were unable to use them until 
they themselves had managed to arrange temporary cover for some of them. They 
eventually managed to arrange a new annual policy for some vans.
S sold a number of their vans and downsized their business. Theyve said they lost money 
in the periods when they had no fleet insurance, purely because Beneficial hadnt passed 
on monies to the insurers and their policies were cancelled as a result of this. They think 
they should be compensated for these losses specifically.
S did complain to Beneficial, but they didnt receive a response and asked us to 
consider their complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that both Ss policies 
had been cancelled because Beneficial hadnt passed on funds theyd got from the lender 
whod
lent S the money to pay the premiums (Ill refer to this lender as P). The investigator 
said that the fair and reasonable outcome to Ss complaint was for Beneficial to pay S 
the following:
£8,644.98 for overpaid premium.
The amounts S had paid for additional day to day cover for their vans before they 
managed to arrange a new annual policy.
£17,061 for loss of earnings due to the cancellation of the first policy.
£17,085.59 for loss of earnings due to the cancellation of the second policy.
£750 in compensation for inconvenience.
S didnt object to the investigators assessment. Beneficial havent responded to it, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that it is more likely than not that both the policies Beneficial 
arranged for S were cancelled because Beneficial didnt pass funds theyd received from P 
to the insurers. I say this because both P and S have provided evidence that S paid a total of
£64,324.68. And the evidence provided by P and from both the insurers involved shows well 
over £50,000 was passed to Beneficial and that none of this was ever passed on to the 
insurers. The funds were meant to be passed on. And, had they been, neither of the policies 
arranged for S would have been cancelled. I appreciate Beneficial has suggested there were 
other reasons why funds werent passed on and that there were problems with additional 
finance not being provided. But none of this is supported by the evidence provided by P. 
This is of course a very serious matter. And it meant that the insurers both cancelled the 
policies leaving S with no motor fleet insurance cover for their vans for periods of time. It 
seems S didnt actually find out the first policy had been cancelled until 3 September and 
therefore their vans had actually been in use without insurance. Fortunately, this did not 
cause them any problems, as they were not stopped by the police and none of them were 
involved in accidents in the period between when the policy was cancelled and when they 
found out about this.
This did mean S werent able to use their vans whilst they didnt have insurance, as they 
couldnt drive them uninsured. However, it is very difficult to work out exactly how much S 
actually lost as a result of this, as they could well have made savings in terms of expenditure 
in the periods. And its clear their drivers were able to do some work at the depot of the 
delivery company S had a contract with. We are an informal dispute resolution service and I 
have to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And S have said they lost 
money as result of not being able to use their vans. But theyve not provided detailed income 
and expenditure calculations that enable me to see this. For some of the period theyve said 
they couldnt use their vans, deliveries seem to have taken place - according to the invoices 
Ive seen. And whilst I can see there were periods when S didnt do any deliveries at all, I 
cant work out what they saved on expenses in these periods, such as driver and fuel costs.
As things stand, I dont think I can say its fair and reasonable for me to award anything for 
losses S suffered as a result of not being able to use their vans. Im not saying I will not 
award anything for this, but I will only be able to do so if S provide detailed calculations
either themselves or from an accountant to show what their income and expenditure was in 
the following periods, so I have a like for like comparison:
6  10 August 2019 and 3-7 September 2019
8  11 January 2020 and 5  8 February 2020
12  21 January 2020 and 9  18 February 2020These are the periods S have said they either couldnt work or their drivers carried out 
reduced services in the delivery companys warehouse.
S have suggested they also provided other services in the period 8  27 September and 
received a lower income as a result. But  as Ive already mentioned - the invoices suggest 
they were doing deliveries in this period. There were a few days where an invoice shows 
they did some warehouse duties, but they also appear to have done deliveries on these 
days. If S think they did lose out in the period 8  27 September, then they should provide 
figures to show their income and expenditure in this period compared to it in a similar period 
in August 2020. And they should explain why invoices for this period show they were doing 
deliveries throughout it. But, as things stand I dont think they suffered a loss as a result of 
not being able to use their vans in the period 8 -27 September.
I will also need S or their accountant to set out what Ss tax liability would have been on any 
income they lost in this period. This is because I think this must be reflected in what they 
actually lost as a business.
This is only a provisional decision and if I can see detailed income and expenditure figures 
for what I think are similar periods I can then see how much net income S actually lost as a 
result of not being able to use their vans. And I will then consider further whether it is fair and 
reasonable to make an award for financial losses flowing from the fact Beneficials actions 
left them without insurance. If S would rather not provide the information I require, that is their 
choice, but then I will not award anything for financial losses flowing from the fact they were 
unable to use their vans for periods of time.
I appreciate S also ended up selling vans and downsizing their business. Theyve said they 
do not want to be compensated for losses flowing from this. But, for the sake of 
completeness, I should say that I do not think it is appropriate for me to award anything for 
this, as I have no way of being sure these decisions were directly linked to the short periods 
where they were unable to use their vans due to them not being insured.
Turning now to what S paid for the two policies Beneficial arranged for them and whether 
they should receive any of this back from Beneficial.
I can see from bank statements provided by S and from what P have provided that S paid a 
total of £64,324.68 in instalments on the money they borrowed from P to pay the premiums 
for the two policies Beneficial arranged for them. And it seems that £54,968 was provided to 
Beneficial, plus some additional amounts. And the underwriting agency/insurer have said 
none of this was ever passed on to them. Some of what S paid was interest and Ps fees, so 
not all of it went to Beneficial.
I can see from the schedule provided from the underwriting agency who provided the first 
policy that the annual premium was £58,968. This is what S would have paid in premium had 
their policy not been cancelled due to Beneficial not passing on the funds for the premium.
However, this figure included five per cent commission for Beneficial, which I dont think they 
should receive, bearing in mind the problems theyve caused S. And I think net of
commission the annual premium would have been £56,000 to the nearest pound.
The two periods S were actually on cover were 25 April to 25 July 2019 and 27 September 
2019 to 3 February 2020. Whereas, the first policy should have run from 25 April 2019 to 24 
April 2020  a full 365 days. This means S were actually only covered for a total of 227 days. 
So  based on what the annual premium should have been if the original policy had stayed 
in place, S should actually have paid £34,827 for the cover they received. They would 
always have paid some interest on the loan they took out to pay the premium and Ps fees. However, it was Beneficial who failed to pass the money on. And it was Beneficials 
inappropriate actions that led to additional premiums being charged or finance for additional 
premiums being requested. And this meant S ended up paying a lot more on their premium 
loan than they should have done. So, I think Beneficial should reimburse the cost of the 
interest and fees S paid on the borrowing for the premium. I also think Beneficial should pay 
S what they effectively lost in premium. So, as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint I intend to make Beneficial pay S the difference between what I think they 
should have paid in premium for the cover they received (£34,827) and what they actually 
paid to P (£64,324.68). This amounts to £29,498 rounded up to the nearest pound.
I also need to factor in that instead of having a policy that ran to 24 April 2020 S had to take 
out a new policy which started on 13 February 2020. S have provided evidence this cost 
them £15,657.60 for a full year. But they shouldnt have had to take this out until 25 April 
2020. So I dont think they should have to pay the premium covering the period 13 February 
to 24 April 2020. I think Beneficial should pay this, as it is a loss S suffered as a result of 
Beneficials inappropriate actions. I make this period 71 days and the premium for this period 
is £3,046 rounded up to the nearest pound. This means I think it is fair and reasonable for 
Beneficial pay S and total of £32,544 to compensate them for what they effectively lost in 
terms of premium when compared to the cover they actually received. I appreciate S also 
paid for some temporary cover for some of their vans, but overall I think this payment is fair 
to cover what theyve effectively lost as a result of the premium issues.
Whilst, as things stand, I am not suggesting Beneficial (this should have read  I am not 
suggesting S) should receive anything for financial losses due to loss of income, as these 
are very hard to determine, S may produce the information I need to award something for 
these. But currently, I do think its appropriate for me to make a very substantial award for 
the inconvenience S suffered as a business because of Beneficials inappropriate actions. 
These clearly had a tremendous impact on S. They are a courier company and simply 
couldnt operate normally and had to reorganise and work out how to use their staff. This 
must have been a logistical headache and clearly would have had a significant impact on 
their ability to carry out their normal business, even if it is hard to quantify what they lost 
financially. So, on the basis I am not currently awarding anything for financial losses to their 
business, I intend to award S £5,000 in compensation for inconvenience. If I decide to award 
something for the financial loss to their business, I may reduce this amount, as this would to 
some extent compensate S for the impact on of Beneficials actions on their business.
I provisionally decied to uphold Ss complaint and make Beneficial pay them £32,544 
for the loss flowing from the premium issues and £5,000 in compensation for 
inconveneince. 
I gave both parties until 3 March to provide more comments and evidence. 
S responded to say they dont have any more comments or evidence to provide. 
Beneficial Life havent responded. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither S nor Beneficial Life have provided any more comments or evidence, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I set out in my provisional decision. Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint is for Beneficial to pay S £32,544 for the loss flowing from 
the premium issues and £5,000 in compensation for inconveneince. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ss complaint and order Beneficial Life (London) 
Limited to pay them £32,544 for the loss flowing from the premium issues and £5,000 
in compensation for inconveneince. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman