DRN-1676534
The complaint
Miss B complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) acted 
irresponsibly by granting her loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Miss B took out three loans with Likely Loans. Heres a table showing loan details: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amountmonthly  
repayment*
1 19/01/2018 26/01/2018 12 £1,000 £106.50
2 20/06/2018 22/03/2019 12 £1,500 £159.75
3 17/04/2019 29/04/2019 24 £2,000 £158.50
Miss B complained that these loans were unaffordable for her. She thought it was 
irresponsible of Likely Loans to lend to her based on the limited checks it did. Miss B told 
us that if Likely Loans had looked into her financial situation in more depth it wouldve 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any of these loans to her.
Our adjudicator looked into Miss Bs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. Our adjudicator thought the checks Likely Loans had carried out were 
proportionate and they didnt show anything that wouldve suggested Miss B wasnt able to 
sustainably make the repayments for these loans.
Miss B disagreed with our adjudicators view. She mainly said that if Likely Loans had done 
the checks it shouldve carried out these would have shown she was gambling heavily at that 
time. Shes asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and so the case comes to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here. There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I 
need to think about when deciding whether to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. Likely Loans was 
required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The checks had to be borrower-focused. So Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Miss B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back  Likely Loans had to consider the impact of the 
repayments on Miss B.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan was for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or check the borrowers overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Likely 
Loans relied on when it decided to lend to Miss B. And I have considered the following 
questions:
- did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Miss Bs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
- did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
did Likely Loans do proportionate checks 
Loan 1
When Miss B applied for loan 1, Likely Loans said it considered the information Miss B 
provided about her income and conducted its own standard credit assessment, which 
included reviewing a credit report it obtained showing Miss Bs credit history. 
Likely Loans told us that it analysed Miss Bs financial commitments, insolvency records and 
records of any payment problems as well as county court judgments and credit enquiries.
Likely Loans says Miss B gave her income as £21,838 when she took out loan 1  and it 
recorded her monthly income as £ 1,510.94.Likely Loans asked Miss B about her priority bills and credit expenses and allowed a 
reasonably generous buffer to cover all her monthly outgoings when assessing 
affordability. I havent seen anything that suggests the expenditure estimate Likely 
Loans based its lending decision on was unreasonable.
Likely Loans says it worked out that the monthly contractual instalment of £106.50 would 
fall within affordability limits for Miss B. 
Having satisfied itself that the loan looked affordable, I dont think that the information Likely 
Loans had collected about Miss Bs financial situation was enough to prompt a reasonable 
lender to think it needed to do any further or more in-depth checking.
I havent seen the credit report that Likely Loans acquired at the time. But it has sent me a 
credit report it obtained later which covers the period running up to the loan and afterwards. 
So this helps me see what a credit report obtained at the time Miss B applied for this loan 
would likely have shown. 
Looking at the credit report it has sent, there wasnt any particularly adverse information 
shown on Miss Bs credit checks. She didnt have an excessive amount of credit and Likely 
Loans couldve seen that Miss B appeared to be managing her credit accounts effectively. 
I agree that there wasnt any evidence (such as defaults, payments arrangements or county 
court judgements etc) to suggest she might be finding it hard to keep up with the monthly 
repayments. 
Looked at overall, I think it would have been fair for Likely Loans to have considered that 
Miss Bs credit report generally showed a positive payment history. 
So I think the checks Likely Loans did before agreeing loan 1 were proportionate and its 
lending decision was fair. 
Loan 2
Likely Loans carried out the same checking process when Miss B applied for loan 2. She 
said her income was more or less the same. And Likely Loans worked out that after her 
planned spending, Miss B ought to have been able to afford the loan repayments on loan 2.
From its credit checks Likely Loans could see that Miss B had been using pay day lending. 
She took out multiple loans within in a short time after taking out loan 1 with Likely Loans. 
But these were all repaid quickly (including loan 1) - she had only one still outstanding when 
she applied for loan 2. So that didnt suggest any signs of payment problems. Given the type 
of lending Likely Loans offered, I think it could reasonably expect to see this sort of 
information on its customers credit history. 
And whilst Miss Bs overall debt had gone up by around £700, I think it was fair for Likely 
Loans to take the view that this amount was still within acceptable limits. 
Likely Loans could also see that Miss B was making her repayments on time on the bank 
loan she was repaying and her credit card accounts. 
So I think the checks Likely Loans did before agreeing loan 2 were proportionate, there 
wasnt anything in the information it had gathered to make Likely Loans think it needed to 
probe more deeply into her financial situation and its lending decision was fair. 
Loan 3
After carrying out its standard income enquiry and expenditure checks, Likely Loans worked 
out the repayments on this loan should be affordable based on the information it had 
gathered. Miss Bs declared income was slightly higher and the loan repayments were slightly less 
than the repayments she had been making successfully on the loan she had just repaid.  
Miss B took out loan 3 less than a month after paying loan 2  and for the second time in a 
row, she borrowed more money than the loan shed just repaid. She also asked to arrange 
the borrowing over a longer term  possibly to keep down the cost of the monthly 
repayments. 
But, set against this, her credit report wouldve also shown that she had settled one of the 
outstanding bank loans and her overall debt had decreased by over a third (Likely Loans 
recorded her total debt now as £5,100  down from a figure of £9,600 when she had taken 
out loan 2).
Looking at this information, I think Likely Loans might reasonably have taken the view that 
there were good indications that Miss B was keeping on top of her borrowing and reducing 
her need for credit. I think Likely Loans wouldve been reassured that her debt seemed to be 
well managed. 
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for Likely Loans to consider 
that the monthly repayments on the loan were sustainably affordable for Miss B  allowing 
for the amount it had seen she had to pay each month towards her existing creditors, and 
what shed declared as her income, the allowance it made for her expenses and given what 
it could see about the way she used credit.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Likely Loans gathered at the time 
which should have caused the lender any additional concerns about Miss Bs financial 
position when she applied for the loan or that ought reasonably to have triggered further 
checks before agreeing to lend - or that shouldve led Likely Loans to the conclusion that her 
loan application should be declined. 
did Likely Loans make fair lending decisions?
I've taken into account that Miss B says the credit information that Likely Loans relied on 
didnt reveal the full extent of her debt at the time and it didnt do enough to check her 
income or what her actual financial situation was and what she was spending her money on 
 all information that, had it known, Likely Loans wouldve seen it shouldnt have lent to her 
at all. And Miss B has sent us a credit report she obtained and bank statements from that 
time in support of what shes said. 
But, overall, I think the checks that Likely Loans carried out before lending to Miss B were 
reasonable and proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Likely Loans  
to have relied on the information that Miss B provided and what its checks revealed - and 
this was enough to enable Likely Loans to gain a reasonable understanding of her financial 
situation and see that Miss B appeared to be managing her money without any significant 
payment problems. I dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank statements 
 were required. 
So I cant fairly uphold Miss Bs complaint on the basis of information shown on her bank 
statements that I wouldnt reasonably expect Likely Loans to have looked at and which 
Miss B didnt tell Likely Loans about at the time. 
Id also just mention that a lenders credit check might not show all the information someone 
could see on their own credit file.
Thinking about all this information, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Miss Bs 
irresponsible lending complaint. has Likely Loans acted unfairly in any other way?  
I havent seen anything to make me think that Likely Loans has acted unfairly towards 
Miss B in some other way. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman