DRN-3558625
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with esure Insurance Limited (Esure) in respect of a claim he made when a 
neighbours car collided with his parked car.
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged in March 2021. It went to Esures garage for repair in May 2021, 
with Mr C having been given a courtesy car. Mr C returned the courtesy car after a few days. 
He brought a new car, intending to sell his repaired car once returned to him. In July 2021 
Mr C was told his car was not being repaired  that Esure wanted to settle the claim in cash, 
net of VAT and a deduction for the policy excess. Mr C was unhappy with this. He also noted 
that his premium had increased and wasnt happy about that either. Esure considered Mr Cs 
concerns. Other than accepting there was a lack of communication in June 2021, and paying 
Mr C £100 compensation in this respect, Esure didnt think it had done anything wrong.
When Mr C complained to us, our Investigator didnt think Esure had failed Mr C in respect 
of the concerns he had raised. He didnt recommend that it take any action. Mr C was 
unhappy about that but felt he had to accept the settlement Esure had offered. However, he 
reported that, having told Esure this, it had refused to pay him. A new Investigator explained 
that this new issue would be considered under a separate reference as it had occurred after 
Mr Cs initial complaint to us and our first Investigators view having been given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this was a difficult time for Mr C and that he has a number of concerns. 
However, and with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr C, I dont think 
Esure did anything wrong that reasonably means it must take more action now. Ill explain.
Excess
The policy, like most on the market, requires Mr C to pay a policy excess as the first part of 
any claim. And this is regardless of whether the claim was his fault or not. When Esure 
seeks to recover its claim outlay from the other party it would be usual for it to seek to 
recover Mr Cs excess sum too. But that doesnt mean that Mr C doesnt have to pay the 
excess in the first instance. He does and Esure has sought to take that payment by 
deducting the sum from the claim settlement amount. That is a fair and reasonable thing for 
it to do.
Courtesy car
The policy entitled Mr C to a small car to use whilst his is being repaired. The policy does not 
say he is entitled to a car similar to his own, either in respect of size or fuel type. So whilst 
I understand that Mr C initially wanted a different car, and this meant the garage didnt 
collect his car for repair until May 2021, I dont think this delay was due to any fault of 
Esures. I see that Esure tried to assist Mr C by putting him in touch with a third-party hire 
company (because the accident was not his fault), but that the hire company wouldnt 
provide a suitable car either. As Esure only introduced Mr C to that company, I cant 
reasonably hold it liable for anything the hire company did or didnt do. I also know that Mr C 
brought a new car as the courtesy car wasnt suitable and he thought his car would be 
repaired within a short period of time. However, Esure had offered a courtesy car in line with 
the policy and it was entitled to review how it intended to progress the claim. 
Cash settlement
Esure did initially intend to repair the car. But I see that when it found other damage to the 
car not related to the incident it changed it mind. The policy does allow Esure to choose how 
to settle a claim, including by making a cash payment. I dont think Esure did anything wrong 
in this respect. And whilst Esure has recognised that it should have communicated with Mr C 
better whilst it has his car in the garage and it was considering how to handle his claim, it 
has paid £100 compensation in this respect, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
Esure offered Mr C the cost to repair the insured damage to his car. I know he thinks it 
should be paying him the market value because it didnt repair it. But the car was not 
considered to be a total loss, it was repairable. Ive seen the garages report on the cost of 
repair and that is the sum Esure offered Mr C, net of VAT and net of the policy excess. 
I think that was fair and reasonable. Mr C did not get the car repaired, if he had, and had 
incurred a cost for VAT, Esure would have reimbursed that to him, but as he didnt incur that 
sum he isnt entitled to settlement of it. And Ive explanted above that Esures deduction 
regarding the excess was fair and reasonable.
DVLA fine
When Mr C brought his new car, he changed the car on his policy with Esure. This meant his 
damaged car, which was not repaired and the subject of several complaints with Esure, was 
uninsured. Mr C was fined by the DVLA although I understand it later withdrew the fine. He 
thinks Esure should have advised him when he changed the policy. However, whilst 
I understand why Mr C might think this, Esure is not able to give advice about suitability of 
cover. And Mr C, as the owner of the damaged car, was responsible for keeping it properly 
insured. I dont think Esure did anything wrong here 
Premiums
Esure explained to Mr C that his premium increased initially because his no claims bonus 
was impacted. But also that even with it amending that there was still an increase because 
the claim still affected the risk he presented. I know its frustrating for Mr C  he did nothing 
wrong but his outlay is, nevertheless, affected. But it is up to an insurer to choose how to 
price cover and sometimes the fact of a claim, whether or not the policyholder caused an 
accident or was just an innocent bystander, does impact premiums. It is also the case that 
until a claim has been closed as non-fault, many insurers will look at it as though it is a fault 
claim. I know Esure isnt viewing it like that  but other insurers viewing the industry 
database, which shows the claim as open, likely will be. I cant blame Esure for that though.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022. 
Fiona RobinsonOmbudsman