DRN-1623084
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Close Brothers have acted fairly.
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mr B says he first experienced issues with the car on the day it was supplied to him. He 
carried out a repair to a split vacuum pipe. Relevant legislation would have allowed him to 
reject the car at that stage, but I dont think its clear the supplying dealership had a chance 
to look at the problem, so I think it would be unreasonable to suggest this the first 
opportunity the business had to repair the car.
However, the gearbox was replaced only a month after the inception of the deal. I think its 
very likely given the short period of time Mr B had been in receipt of the car, that this fault 
was present or developing when the car was supplied to him. I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect the gearbox to fail so soon on a car of this age and mileage. I think this 
was Close Brothers first opportunity to repair the car.
Relevant legislation does not give a business one chance to repair each separate fault that 
may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as 
a whole not each separate component. Indeed, the more separate faults - the more likely it is 
the vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality. So, when Mr B reported further issues with the car the 
business were not entitled to a further chance to repair the vehicle and should have allowed 
him to reject it.
I think the problems Mr B experienced with the car in June 2019, and that the independent 
inspector commented on, were likely to have been there at the point the car was supplied to 
Mr B. I say that because the independent inspector, who is an expert in these matters, said 
so. He said the cooling system was heavily contaminated with oil and he thought it likely the 
cause of that oil leak was present at the point of supply.
As previous repairs had failed to remedy all the issues present with the car at the point of 
supply Close Brothers should now allow Mr B to reject his car. Ive therefore considered 
what else they should do to put things right for Mr B. 
Putting things right
Mr B hasnt been able to drive the car since the last failure in July 2019. Hes provided an 
odometer reading from December 2019 that demonstrates the car has done less than 1,500 
miles since he took receipt of it. So, I think Close Brothers should refund any finance 
instalments hes paid since July 2019. Theyll need to add 8% simple interest to that refund 
as Mr B has been deprived of that money whilst financing a car thats been of unsatisfactory 
quality.
Mr B has reported problems with the gearbox, cooling system/oil leak and with the vacuum 
pipes. I think its clear, given the very low mileage Mr B has covered in the car, that these 
problems were present at the point of supply. Close Brothers should therefore refund any 
costs Mr B may have incurred for repairs or spare parts to fix these issues. They should, 
again, add 8% interest to this refund.
Mr B has also explained that hes incurred costs to have the brake pads replaced. The MOT 
completed in 2019 before Mr B took receipt of the car didnt provide any advisories about 
brake wear. It would seem infeasible that they could wear to such a low level in the time 
Mr B has had the car. Im persuaded, on balance, that its most likely the worn brakes 
highlighted in the 2018 MOT were not replaced and I therefore think its also reasonable to 
tell Close Brothers to refund the costs Mr B incurred replacing the brakes shortly after he 
took receipt of the car.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint, Close Brothers Limited should:allow Mr B to reject his car and end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
refund the cost of repairs on provision of receipts by Mr B. Add 8% simple interest 
per year to these refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any instalments Mr B has paid towards his finance agreement from, and 
including, July 2019 and add 8% simple interest per year to these refunds from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made towards Mr Bs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020. 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman