DRN-3358809
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly turned down his 
claim under the s.75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a timeshare membership from a business Ill call X, in 2009. The 
cost of the timeshare was $7,900 and Mr M part paid $3,462 (£2,225.47) using his 
NatWest credit card. As the credit card was in Mr Ms sole name, I will refer to him 
throughout this complaint. 
Mr M says he was pressured into taking out the timeshare and that X misrepresented the 
timeshare to him when he purchased it. Mr M says that had the timeshare not been 
misrepresented to him, he would not have taken it out. 
In January 2019 Mr M, using a representative, complained to NatWest. It responded to say 
that as Mr M paid a third party and not X directly, it doesnt have the necessary debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship needed to make this claim. NatWest also said that as 
the purchase took place more than six years ago, Mr M had raised his complaint too late.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought it was likely that was the 
correct DCS relationship in place to make this claim. He went on to issue a subsequent 
opinion on Mr Ms s.75 CCA claim. He thought that the claim under s.75 CCA had been 
brought too late, under the relevant provision contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
So he didnt think NatWest needed to consider the substance of the claim. 
Mr Ms representatives didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell NatWest to do anything further to resolve the 
matter and Ive explained why below.
I have noted that there was some dispute as to whether Mr M had the required DCS 
relationship needed to make this claim. As I understand it, the funds Mr M paid 
using his credit card were paid to a third party and not X directly. These 
circumstances can call into question whether or not Mr M had the required DCS 
relationship needed between the debtor (Mr M), the creditor (NatWest) and the 
supplier (X) to make this claim. 
However, I dont intend to make a finding on this point. This is because, even if I 
were to conclude that Mr M had the DCS relationship required to make this claim, I 
think NatWest would have a complete defence to it under the Limitation Act 1980. Ill 
explain why below. 
Mr M says that X misrepresented the nature of the timeshare membership to him when he 
bought it. But under section 2 of the LA, Mr and Mrs G had to make this claim within six 
years of when he entered into the timeshare and used his credit card to part pay for the 
timeshare. This is because thats when he says he lost out having relied on false statements 
of fact. Mr M purchased the timeshare in 2009, but didnt make his claim to NatWest until 
2019, so Mr M was outside the time limits set out by the LA. Ive also not seen any grounds 
to suggest that the limitation period should be extended in this case. 
Ive also noted Mr M has said he was pressured into taking out the timeshare. However, a 
s.75 CCA only gives rise to a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. This 
allegation could be relevant when considering how representations were made at the time of 
the sale. But for the reasons Ive already given above, I think this claim was raised too late 
and outside the provisions of the LA. 
So it follows that I dont think it was unfair of NatWest to decline Mr Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
