DRN-4119334
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money closed her Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) and they transferred the funds into a non-ISA account.
What happened
Mrs C opened a fixed rate cash ISA with Virgin Money in July 2022. She provided a copy of 
her driving licence and a copy of a bank statement as identification, but Virgin Money didnt 
accept the bank statement as the account number had been redacted. Mrs C says she used 
the bank statement as identification for two other occasions and it was accepted by them, so 
Virgin Money should have also accepted it. Due to a bereavement and a other personal 
circumstances at the time, Mrs C was not in a position to send Virgin Money further 
identification. In addition to this, her email account had been compromised and she didnt 
have access to her emails for a period of time. 
During this period, Virgin Money had sent Mrs C emails stating that the ISA would be closed 
and the money would be transferred to her nominated account. Mrs C only became aware of 
what happened when she went to deposit money into her nominated account, and she saw 
the balance was significantly higher than she expected. Mrs C made a complaint to Virgin 
Money.
Virgin Money credited Mrs Cs account with a £250 goodwill gesture. They said as the bank 
statement had been redacted they were unable to accept this. They said they sent her an 
email on 29 July 2022 advising Mrs C of this, and they asked her to provide another piece of 
identification. They sent her another email asking for the relevant documents on 26 
November 2022 and 21 December 2022. Virgin Money advised if they didnt receive the 
documents by 5 January 2023 they would unfortunately have to return her funds and close 
the account. As they received no response they returned the funds to her nominated account 
and the account was closed on 12 January 2023.
Virgin Money said that as the account which the funds were originally transferred from was 
closed, they had to send the funds to Mrs Cs nominated account. They said as the account 
was not an ISA, she lost the ISA status, but they have to follow rules and regulations. They 
said they werent able to ring Mrs C about what was happening and they sent her emails 
instead due to the account being an online based account. Mrs C brought her complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He said Virgin Moneys policy is that they 
cant accept a redacted bank statement, and it is for them to put in place their own 
processes, which they acted in line with here. He said they sent her emails between 29 July 
2022 and 12 December 2022, which explained that the statement submitted couldnt be 
accepted and Mrs C would need to supply alternative identification, otherwise the account 
would need to be closed. As there was no response, the account was closed, and funds 
were moved to the nominated account. 
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary she said she had lost the ISA status despite building this up over a period of 11 
years, she is now suffering a loss of ongoing interest because of this and with the rise of 
interest rates this year. Mrs C says that she recently opened a new account with a third 
party, and she wasnt asked for identification because she had accounts with them 
previously, which she says she was in the same situation as she was in with Virgin Money. 
She says if Virgin Money had called her last December, then this would have prevented all 
of the stress this caused her. Mrs C says her name and address was clear on the statement 
and those parts werent redacted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all Id like to pass my condolences onto Mrs C. Ive read about her personal 
circumstances during last year and I can sympathise with everything that happened. As my 
role is impartial, what I need to decide here is if Virgin Money have made an error with the 
actions they took.
Id like to explain to Mrs C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
security procedures should be and whether they should accept redacted identification or not. 
It is up to Virgin Money to be able to satisfy themselves that they are meeting any regulatory 
and legal obligations they may have. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Virgin Money to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Although Mrs C has commented about how a separate financial institution has treated her 
with regards to her not having to provide any identification, this doesnt mean that Virgin 
Money has done something wrong by asking for certain identification. It is up to each 
financial institution to make a decision as to what they feel is necessary identification to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations.
I have had a look at the statement that Mrs C sent Virgin Money. I can see that she redacted 
three pieces of account information on this document. While Mrs C has said it didnt say she 
couldnt redact any of the information, the same argument could be made that it didnt say 
she should redact any information on the statement. While Im aware that the same 
identification was accepted elsewhere, this wasnt accepted by Virgin Money, as all of the 
account information wasnt visible on this statement. As the requirement was to provide a 
photocopy of the statement (or the original copy), Im not persuaded the original copy would 
have been sent to Mrs C with her account details redacted by the third party building society. 
So I cant say Virgin Money were wrong to reject this.
Ive looked at what Virgin Money did after they couldnt accept the redacted statement. They 
sent Mrs C an email advising her that they couldnt accept the statement as some of the 
details had been redacted and they advised her of the next steps. They then sent her a 
follow up email to say they hadnt received any documents from their confirmation of identity 
list they sent her. It advised she needed to send it to them by 12 December 2022. As they 
did not receive a response from Mrs C, they sent her a final chaser for the identification, and 
they told her that if they didnt receive the document before 5 January 2023 then they would 
close her account. The funds were then transferred to her nominated account.
Im satisfied that Virgin Money were reasonable with the actions they took here. While I 
understand Mrs C relied on the ISA interest to help meet her outgoings, Virgin Money sent 
several emails over a period of several months to try and help avoid what ultimately 
happened. Although Mrs C did not have access to her emails at the time, I cant see that she 
notified Virgin Money about this, so they would have been unaware that Mrs C was having any issues. And given that her account was an online based account, I would expect Virgin 
Money to communicate with her online through emails or secured messages. While a phone 
call may have helped prevent what happened, Virgin Money had no obligation to ring Mrs C 
when they had sent several emails to her email address for the online account.
The terms and conditions show that they can close an account immediately if they couldnt 
confirm her identity. They also show they could close the account immediately if she gave 
them incomplete information in connection to the account. But Virgin Money did not close the 
account immediately, they gave Mrs C several chances to provide the unredacted 
information over a period of several months. So Im persuaded that they gave Mrs C several 
opportunities to avoid the account being closed, especially as they werent aware of her 
situation.
But when Mrs C made Virgin Money aware of her personal situation, and the reason why 
she couldnt act on the emails, Virgin Money did agree to reinstate the ISA for her, providing 
she could send them a cheque from the third party bank. So I do think that Virgin Money 
were trying to assist Mrs C here even though Im not persuaded they made an error in what 
happened here. Unfortunately as Mrs C had deposited these funds in an account elsewhere 
which was a term deposit account, then the funds werent able to be paid back into the ISA. 
So although Mrs C has said she lost her ISA status after building this up for 11 years, Virgin 
Money did give her the opportunity to retain this, even after she had closed the account.
Although Im not persuaded Virgin Money were unfair in the actions they took, it would be 
distressing for Mrs C to find out the funds had been paid into her external account. Virgin 
Money have paid Mrs C £250 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. This is more than I 
would have been able to award Mrs C based on the events here. So it follows I dont require 
Virgin Money to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman