DRN-4287172
The complaint
Mr H complained that Schroder Unit Trusts Limited (Schroder) failed to deal correctly with 
his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). 
What happened
Mr H had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Schroder. In February 2023 he wrote to 
Schroder and provided it with his new address. Schroder then wrote to Mr H at both his old 
and his new address to let him know that proof of the new address was needed before it 
could process the address change. The letter sent to Mr Hs new address included a change 
of address form and a list of acceptable documents to evidence the change.  
Mr H complained to Schroder on 20 February 2023 and said its request for further 
documentation had no legal or regulatory justification. Mr H submitted a DSAR.
   
Schroder wrote to Mr H at his new address on 1 March 2023 with a response to his 
complaint. Schroder said it had processes in place to safeguard investors accounts against 
potential fraudulent activity and so it required evidence of new addresses, as and when 
address change requests were received. It said as an additional security measure, it wrote to 
Mr H at both his old and new address. Schroder told Mr H he could phone it to update his 
address, subject to passing telephone security checks. It also confirmed Mr Hs DSAR had 
been passed to its General Data Protection Office. 
Schroder wrote to Mr H at his old address on 23 March 2023 regarding his DSAR. It said it 
provided him with information he hadnt already received in response to earlier DSARs. 
Schroder reiterated that it couldnt process Mr Hs request to update his postal address as 
he hadnt yet provided the required pieces of evidence. 
Mr H contacted Schroder in late March 2023 to let it know he hadnt received the DSAR 
information and that he was unhappy with the response to his complaint. 
Schroder wrote to Mr H, at his new address, on 17 April 2023. It said it was unable to issue 
any personal or account specific information, including DSAR information, to his new 
address until Mr H provided the relevant proof of address. Schroder told Mr H that the DSAR 
information sent to his old address in March 2023 was not signed for and so not delivered. 
Mr H remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to this Service. He said none of the 
DSAR information, that Schroder said it would deal with in its complaint response, had been 
received. He asked for all aspects of his complaint, including the DSAR, to be resolved. He 
also asked for fair and reasonable monetary compensation to be awarded. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H didnt agree with the outcome and so 
this came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether Schroder acted reasonably when it told Mr H it wouldnt process his 
request to change his address unless he provided the evidence it requested. 
Schroder responded to Mr Hs initial request to change his address by writing to him at both 
his old and new addresses and letting him know exactly what steps he needs to take before 
Schroder can add his new address to its system. I can see that Schroder also let Mr H know 
there was an alternative way that he could update his address by telephone. 
This is what I would expect a business to do if a consumer had, most likely unwittingly, not 
provided everything needed in order for the change to be made. I can also see that both 
letters were sent very soon after Schroder received Mr Hs letter.
Schroder told Mr H that evidence of his new address is needed for security purposes. I know 
Mr H said that he cant see what legal or regulatory requirement Schroder are fulfilling by 
asking for proof of the address change. But the approach this Service takes is that it will 
rarely interfere with reasonable security measures taken by businesses. Schroder has an 
obligation to ensure it safeguards its consumers, and indeed its own, interests. So I am not 
going to interfere with what I think is a reasonable request made by Schroder for evidence of 
Mr Hs change of address. 
Schroder sent some letters to Mr H at his old address, and some to his new. I can see that 
the DSAR information was sent to Mr Hs old address, along with an explanation of why it 
couldnt be sent to the new  Schroder didnt want to send personal or account specific 
information until Mr H had provided evidence of his change of address. The position 
Schroder is in here is that it cant update Mr Hs address until he provides the proof of 
address it requires, and it also cant ignore his DSAR. So the step its decided to take in this 
situation is send the DSAR information to the address it has on its system for Mr H. 
Ive already said I am not going to interfere with reasonable security measures put in place 
by Schroder in relation to how it updates consumers addresses on its system. Given that, I 
think it was reasonable for Schroder not to send the type of sensitive information thats likely 
to be sent as part of a DSAR request to an address that hasnt yet been evidenced as Mr Hs 
new address. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr H, but I am not asking Schroder to take any further 
action here. 
My final decision
I am not asking Schroder Unit Trusts Limited to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman