DRN-4434680
The complaint
Mr H, trading as business R, has complained about the way West Bay Insurance Plc (West 
Bay), Rs commercial motor insurer, dealt with a claim made on its motor trade policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complain last month. An extract from that decision 
follows:
 
In April 2022 Mr H on behalf of R made a claim to West Bay after discovering that seven 
cars and vans, six belonging to R and one to one of its customers, were damaged beyond 
repair in a fire.
West Bay arranged for the vehicles to be collected and then proceeded to review the claim. 
Mr H complained initially because he said that the salvage agent collecting the vehicles 
wasnt able to collect them all together but had to collect them on different days as it had no 
suitable recovery vehicles. Mr H said it took several days for the vehicles to be collected and 
had concerns about complaints being made to the authorities as the vehicles were in a 
potentially dangerous state.
 
He also complained later on when West Bay made offers for the total loss value of each 
vehicle. Mr H said the offers were too low and also that West Bay was refusing to deal with 
the claim for the seventh car which belonged to a customer of Rs. He was also unhappy that 
the claim was recorded as several separate claims as opposed to one which meant R was 
charged a £500 excess per claim. 
West Bay upheld part of the complaint and awarded Mr H, trading as R, £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused as a result of the delays in having all the vehicles collected. It 
also revised and increased its offers in relation to three of the vehicles. In relation to a van 
which had been converted into a catering van but not declared as such when the policy was 
taken out, it said it was only able to value this as a standard van which attracted a lower 
value. It added that under the terms of the policy it was only obliged to pay for the trade 
value of the vehicles and not their retail value. In relation to the seventh car, it said it was 
waiting for Mr H to send further information in as it could find no alternative valid insurance 
for that car. 
Mr H didnt agree and complained to us on behalf of R. He said he wanted an increase in the 
offers made towards the value of the vehicles. He also wanted for the seven claims to be 
recorded as one claim and mentioned that this was impacting Rs no claims bonus (NCB). 
He also asked for further compensation for the trouble and upset West Bay caused. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
thought West Bays offer in relation to the catering van was too low and asked it to pay 
£1,900 instead of £750. She also said that West Bay should have treated this as one claim 
and it should therefore reimburse five of the six £500 excesses it had charged R. She 
thought West Bay should add 8% simple interest per year on the reimbursements it was 
making. In relation to a seventh car our investigator thought West Bay should consider this 
claim under the terms and conditions of Rs policy.
West Bay agreed with the recommendations, but Mr H didnt. Mr H felt that the offers made 
for the total loss value of the vehicles were too low and provided adverts in relation to the 
catering van and one of the cars. West Bay didnt feel the adverts were comparable and 
reiterated that under the policy its offers are based on the trade and not the retail value. But 
it agreed to increase its offer for the catering van to £2,345 based on adverts of comparable 
vans it had found which were for £1,795 and £2,895 respectively.
As Mr H on behalf of R didnt agree with our investigator the case was passed to me to issue 
a decision on.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was unhappy that there was a delay in the cars being collected. The salvage agent 
collected one car on one day and wanted to collect the others on separate days. West Bay 
acknowledged this would have caused distress and inconvenience and offered £200 
compensation in this respect. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances bearing 
in mind the cars were seemingly collected about a week apart. 
Mr H was also unhappy that West Bay had recorded these as separate claims instead of one 
and charged separate excesses. This also impacted Rs no claims bonus which was 
protected at the time. West Bay has since confirmed it will log everything under one claim 
which will restore Rs six - year NCB, as at November 2022. I think this is fair and 
reasonable. And it has also agreed to refund all but one excess charged plus interest as per 
our investigators recommendation. Again, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
West Bay has also now agreed to consider the claim for the seventh vehicle which belongs 
to one of Rs clients. It said this would be subject to Mr H providing further information. As 
our investigator said as there appears not to be any other insurer involved, we would expect 
West Bay to consider this claim under Rs policy. From what I can see the policy covers 
damage to cars belonging to customers under certain conditions. So, I would expect West 
Bay to consider this claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the loss or damage by fire or theft section the policy says, among other things, that 
the most West Bay will pay is the trade market value of the vehicle before the loss. It also 
says it will pay the retail market value of a customers vehicle immediately before the loss if 
they have no involvement in the motor trade. 
It defines trade market value as the typical cost of replacing the vehicle in its pre-accident 
state with one of the same or similar make, model, year, mileage and condition within the 
motor trade at a price that allows for future resale at a profit. It refers to a specific trade guide 
West Bay will use to arrive at the valuation.  
We usually think it is fair for insurers to base their settlements on trade values when it comes 
to trade policies as these policies arent meant to cover the loss of potential profit from 
selling a vehicle at a higher value. 
I should also explain that its not my role to decide what the value of the car is but to decide 
whether West Bay made an offer which was fair and reasonable based on the evidence 
available to it. Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive as they are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. 
West Bay used valuations it obtained from one trade guide where possible. It said it was only 
able to obtain valuations for some of the cars but not all due to their age. Using the guide 
and advice from its engineers it made the following offers:
Car 1 - £1,750
Car 2 - £715
Car 3, catering van - £750
Car 4 - £2,000 later increased to £2,200
Car 5 - £1,250 increased to £1,500
Car 6 - £2,065 increased to £2,580 as it said it should not have made a 20% 
deduction for the car being a previous total loss 
Car 7  not settled. 
Our investigator also carried out further valuations using additional guides and looked at 
adverts for similar cars, as far as that was possible, where the guides returned no valuations. 
Overall, she felt that West Bays offers on all but car 3 were fair and reasonable and I agree.
 
In relation to car 1 the £1,750 offer was based on a valuation obtained in a trade guide. So I 
dont think West Bay acted unfairly or unreasonably in offering this amount. Our investigator 
also looked at some sales adverts which returned slightly higher values. Nevertheless, I 
should explain that we dont tend to find adverts as persuasive as the motor guides and the 
reason for this is because it is difficult to know what a car will actually sell for from the advert; 
and a vehicle may be sold for less than the advertised price especially with private sales. 
There may be occasions where we do look at adverts and this can be where we arent able 
to get a result from any/all of the guides, for example where the car is old or a rare model. I 
dont think this was the case here. Ive also borne in mind that West Bay only has to offer a 
trade value not a retail valuation which tends to be higher.
In relation to car 2, I found that West Bays offer of £715 was within the range of valuations 
that we obtained from other trade guides most of which returned lower valuations. The offers 
made by West Bay in relation to cars 4 and 5 were also within the range of reasonable 
values. In determining this we looked at adverts and they provided a mix of higher and lower 
values. As I explained above, I would expect advertised prices to be slightly higher in any 
event and not priced at what a trader would pay for a car.
 
In relation to car 3 our investigator asked West Bay to pay £1,900 which was the average of 
two of the trade guides; £1,800 and £2,000. West Bay had said that it had valued this as a 
standard van rather than a converted catering van but still offered a valuation that was 
lower than its £1,800 valuation which was itself for an unmodified van. Mr H didnt agree with 
this valuation and provided an advert which showed what he considered to be a similar van 
priced at £4,990. West Bay responded to say that the two vans were not similar pointing to 
the body of the advertised van which is different to Rs. I agree that the advert for the van 
that Mr H provided seems to have been converted differently to Rs van. West Bay has 
provided adverts for vans which are more similar to Mr Hs and the values for those were 
£1795 and £2895 respectively. It has offered to increase its valuation to £2,345, that being 
the average between the two values. I think that is fair and reasonable particularly bearing in 
mind that I think it would have been reasonable to offer a valuation for a standard and not a 
converted van seeing as it was unaware this van had been converted. And it would have 
also been reasonable to offer a lower trade value and not an advertised value.
Mr H has also provided copies of adverts for cars which he believes are similar to car 6. 
Those were selling for around £8,000 and above. But I dont think those cars are comparable. Mr Hs car is a manual and has around 190,000 miles on the clock. The cars in 
the adverts were automatics and had lower mileage. In respect of this car we were able to 
conduct our own trade guide valuations, which as I said above, I would find more persuasive 
than adverts. And those returned valuations of £2,580 and £2,675 excluding outliers. So I 
consider West Bays offer of £2,580 to be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons above I am considering upholding this complaint. West Bay Insurance Plc 
must do the following:
Confirm it has recorded this as one claim and that Mr H trading as Rs NCB of 6 years as 
at 22 November 2022 has been reinstated
Pay Mr H trading as R £200 for the distress and inconvenience suffered if it hasnt 
already done so.
Consider the claim for the 7th car which belongs to Mr H trading as Rs customer in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
Reimburse all excesses charged/deducted bar one and add 8% per year simple interest 
from the date each was charged/deducted to the date it is paid back. 
Pay Mr H trading as R the difference between the £750 paid for car 3 and its new 
valuation of £2,345 plus 8% simple interest per year (but only on the difference) from one 
month from the date the claim was made to the date it is paid. 
Pay any settlements if any are still outstanding. I will not be awarding interest on these 
as I see West Bay Insurance Plc made most of its offers and asked for payment details 
within a month of the claim.
West Bay accepted my provisional decision. Before I issued my provisional decision I 
enquired with West Bay, through our investigator, whether the excess was £500 or whether 
it should have been £300 as per the policy schedule. West Bay confirmed it should have 
been £300. 
Mr H said he wanted to accept the decision to draw a line under things, but he wasnt happy 
with the outcome. Our investigator took him through the figures Id awarded and explained 
what the 8% interest would be on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As West Bay has confirmed that the correct excess was £300 and not £500, I think it should 
also refund Mr H trading as R £200 from the excess it is retaining. So that the excess it 
keeps is £300 not £500. And it must also pay interest on the £200 it is returning. As neither 
party made any other comments my views on the complaint as set out provisionally have not 
changed- other than the point about the excess. My provisional findings along with any 
further comments here are now the findings of this my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I am upholding this complaint. West Bay Insurance Plc must do the 
following:
Confirm it has recorded this as one claim and that Mr H trading as Rs NCB of 6 years as 
at 22 November 2022 has been reinstatedPay Mr H trading as R £200 for the distress and inconvenience suffered if it hasnt 
already done so.
Consider the claim for the 7th car which belongs to Mr H trading as Rs customer in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
Reimburse Mr H trading as R all excesses charged/deducted bar one as well as the 
additional £200 charged on the excess it is retaining so that it retains only one £300 
excess. Add 8% per year simple interest on each one from the date each was 
charged/deducted (including the £200 it is returning) to the date it is paid back. 
Pay Mr H trading as R the difference between the £750 paid for car 3 and its new 
valuation of £2,345 plus 8% simple interest per year (but only on the difference) from one 
month from the date the claim was made to the date it is paid. 
Pay any of the remaining claim settlements it had already agreed to pay to Mr H trading 
as R if any are still outstanding. I will not be awarding interest on these as I see West 
Bay Insurance Plc made most of its offers and asked for payment details within a month 
of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H trading as R 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman