DRN-3776824
The complaint
Mr G complains about delays in Inter Partner Assistance SAs (Inter) response following a 
claim under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Mr Gs car broke down in the early hours of the morning in mid-February 2022. He contacted 
Inter and it arranged for its agent to attend the breakdown. The agent didnt attend for 
approximately three and a half hours. Mr Gs car couldnt be repaired at the roadside and the 
recovery agent didnt have the capability to recover the car.
Inter arranged for another recovery agent to attend. When it arrived around four hours later, 
again the agent wasnt able to recover Mr Gs car. Another recovery agent was booked to 
attend, who was able to recover the car, but this agent didnt arrive for a further three and a 
half hours. Mr G arrived back at his home approximately 13 hours after the breakdown. He 
describes how he was cold, had no food or drinks, no toilet facilities and he felt at risk. 
Inter says its recovery response was outside of its expected timeframes. It says the car 
couldnt be repaired at the roadside due to a problem with a turbo. Inter says the second 
agent it used shouldve been aware of the need for the vehicle to be recovered. It also points 
to poor communication with its recovery agents overall. Inter initially offered Mr G £200 
compensation, which it later increased to £300. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. She thought £200 compensation, which Inter had offered when the 
complaint was first brought to our service, wasnt enough. But she thought the further £100 it 
subsequently offered was fair, and so didnt ask it to pay more. 
Mr G says he lost two days pay because of this incident. He doesnt think the compensation 
offered is enough to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience he was caused. Because 
of this he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I think the compensation he was 
eventually offered by Inter is fair. So, I wont be asking it to pay anymore. I understand this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr G, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see from Mr Gs motor insurance policy schedule that he paid for the optional extra that 
provides roadside repairs and recovery if the breakdown occurs at least a mile from his 
home. Ive also read his policy terms to understand what is expected to happen when he 
makes a claim. The terms say once a claim is made it will confirm who is attending and 
when this is expected to happen. I can see the policy allows for Mr G and his car to be 
recovered to his home, which is what eventually happened.  
The policy terms dont provide further clarification on expected response times. Other than to 
say it wont be responsible for delays in the event of severe weather or other extraordinary 
events. There is no evidence that delays resulted from one of these events. I note Inter 
acknowledges its agents responded outside of its standard response times.    
Ive thought about Mr Gs timeline of events along with Inters summary and the records it 
has provided. Its clear that Mr G was made to wait a long time between contacting Inter and 
the arrival of its first recovery agent. This took three and a half hours. It took a further four 
hours for the second agent to attend and another three and a half hours before an agent with 
the ability to recover the car turned up. 
Inter says the second recovery agent shouldve been aware that a recovery was required. 
From the description of events, I think this is fair. Had this happened Mr G couldve been 
recovered home in a much shorter period. Albeit this would still have taken seven and a half 
hours for the recovery vehicle to attend, even before beginning the journey to Mr Gs home.
In its complaint response Inter explains that it wasnt aware until around three hours after the 
second recovery agent had attended, that further arrangements for recovery were required. I 
understand Inter considers its recovery agent to blame for this communication failure. I dont 
disagree, but Inter is responsible for its agents providing a good standard of service to Mr G. 
From what Ive read he didnt receive a good standard of service in this instance. 
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Mr G. He explains that the breakdown 
occurred in winter and it was the early hours of the morning. He had no food or drink and no 
access to toilet facilities. I can understand why he felt abandoned given the response times, 
and communication problems discussed. This must have been very distressing for him. It 
must also have been frustrating to wait so long, only to be told on two occasions that a 
recovery wasnt possible because the agent wasnt equipped to handle this eventuality. 
In these circumstances I think compensation is appropriate. But having considered this 
carefully I think £300 is fair to acknowledge the distress, inconvenience, and frustration Mr G 
experienced. He hasnt supplied evidence to support further losses and Im satisfied this 
amount is reasonable.  
I note Mr Gs comments that this outcome wont help protect customers but rather delivers a 
message that Inter can do what it wants. Im sorry for the poor experience Mr G has had 
here. By no means is my intention to diminish the distress he suffered. But our service isnt 
the industry regulator, my role here to resolve his individual dispute. Im satisfied that £300 
compensation is reasonable in response to Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If Inter Partner Assistance SA hasnt already 
done so it should:
pay Mr G a total of £300 compensation for the distress, inconvenience, and 
frustration he was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman