DRN-1778749
Complaint
Mr H says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 2000, at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the online sales process Mr H wouldve used at the time. From what Ive seen, 
there wouldve been a section for PPI which gave him an overview of what the policy was for 
and what it cost. Then there were two options to choose from: one to buy PPI, and one to 
turn it down. According to the electronic record of Mr Hs application, he chose the option to 
buy PPI. Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence which shows that Mr H was misled here. So I think its most likely that Canada 
Square made Mr H aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it 
at the time  though I can certainly understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Canada Square didnt give Mr H tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. They did have to give Mr H enough information to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Canada Square gave Mr H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr H chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks 
like Mr H was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Hs work benefits and covered him for far longer. 
I understand Mr Hs family may have been happy to help, but there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. Further, the card was Mr Hs sole responsibility, not 
anyone elses, and the PPI meant he wouldnt have to ask his family to pay for his credit 
card if things went wrong. So the policy could have been useful for Mr H in case he needed 
to claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr H could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have 
put him off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman