DRN-3042923
The complaint
Mrs T complains about losses she sustained through lending on Crowdstacker Limiteds 
(CSs) peer to peer lending platform.
What happened
Mrs T invested a total of £15,000 into company BN, lending through CSs peer to peer 
lending platform. Mrs T invested £10,000 in February 2017 and £5,000 in May 2017. BN
went into administration in September 2018 and Mrs T has been unable to realise her
investment.
The duration of each loan was three years. The legal features, Key commercial terms
documents set out the duration of each loan as above, the interest rate (7.5% on the
February loan and 7% on the May loan), the minimum loan raise of £350,000 and the target
loan raise of £3.5 million on the February loan and £7million for the May loan. The security
was said to be:
First charge debenture over assets of BN Limited and cross guarantees provided by six
subsidiaries where two have provided debentures over their assets.
Brochures were provided for each loan, dated September 2016 and April 2017. The
brochures stated:
1. Your loan is secured against the assets of BN where BN gives the Security Trustee a
first ranking debenture. BNs assets can be valued by looking at the value of its
current and future leased and freehold pubs and their current and future profitability.
2. Six of its principal subsidiaries [named] will provide cross guarantees in favour of the
Security Trustee where they guarantee BNs liabilities to the Security Trustee.
3. Two of its principal subsidiaries [named] will each give the Security Trustee a first
ranking debenture over its assets and business.
Mrs T said that CS failed to carry out proper due diligence before providing the loan and it
wasnt made clear that almost £8 million would be lent to BN. Mrs T thought BN was only
looking to raise £3.5 million. She said she wouldnt have invested if she had known that BN
was looking to borrow almost £8 million as the company didnt have enough assets to cover
the loan, only having £2 million on the balance sheet at the time. Mrs T pointed to the figures
shown in the 2017 financial statements.
CS said it carried out strict due diligence on each borrower before deciding to list them on
the platform. Any risks identified were included under the risk section of the Information
brochure produced for each loan. CS maintained that appropriate due diligence was carried
out on the information provided at the time, which showed revenue and asset growth. The
net assets represented in the brochure were accurate at the time of the raise, security over
the key group of companies was intended to access the majority of assets of the group in
priority and funding was intended to grow the number of businesses, increasing the asset
base. Risk warnings were contained in the Information brochure and were displayed online.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought CS did enough due diligence, in that
they undertook credit safe reports on two guarantor companies, met the managers, viewed
one business and considered both historical financial information and future forecasts. Also,
CS said it relied upon desktop valuations for six of the businesses, which showed assets of
approximately £10 million. Our investigator also thought that the promotional brochures
clearly stated there was no guarantee that the realisation of assets or the security would be
sufficient to repay BNs loans or liabilities. Our investigator explained that CS conducted two
fund raises, the first for £3.5 million and the second for a further £3.5 million, so it was clear
that £7 million was being raised. She thought CS had done enough before approving the
pitch to ensure the information provided was clear, fair and not misleading.
Mrs T disagreed with the view. She said CS hid the fact that BN was losing money and
almost £8 million was loaned with virtually no security. Further, Mrs T thought CS had given
misleading information about the amount being loaned as they had only referred to a
minimum of £350,000. Those acting on her behalf have also provided of press articles.
CS said that the financial statements filed by BN in 2018, included major adjustments that
had not been presented in the management accounts or forecasts shown to CS. CS noted
that subsequent to BN having fallen into administration, allegations of fraud and
misappropriation of assets had been made against BN and the directors. CS maintain that
appropriate legal action has been taken.
I wrote a provisional decision in July 2021, in which I provisionally upheld the complaint.  Mrs 
T agreed with the outcome in the provisional decision and added that the brochures were 
misleading in claiming that since inception BN had been profitable in the last five years;
it was now apparent that significant losses were occurring in 2017 (the year of her
investment). It appeared that no due diligence had been undertaken on the main trading
subsidiary. Contrary to assurances that the business was profitable, extremely valuable and
had over £10 million in assets, it was unlikely that the loans would be repaid. CS permitted
the same director to borrow significantly for another business, company A, which had also
gone into administration.
CS strongly disagreed with the provisional decision and they provided extensive material to 
show the due diligence undertaken at the time. They said:
Sufficient due diligence was undertaken and supporting documents had now been
provided, showing, amongst other things consideration of: cash flow forecasts and
assumptions, financial statements, management accounts, fixed asset register, group
operating structure, security documentation and company specific information, loan
extension assessment, brochure verification checks.
BN and the Group were defined in the brochures. BN had assessed the group
structure and confirmed that BN was the parent company and all the subsidiaries were 
wholly owned, so all assets owned by group companies were owned indirectly by BN. 
Charged assets included all investments and shares in BN subsidiaries. Financial 
performance should be analysed at group level.As to security, BN owned the shares in the subsidiary companies. Direct security was
taken over key subsidiaries with significant asset values (totalling 80% of fixed assets
within the group).
Consumers were warned in the risk factor section that there was no certainty or
guarantee that any realisation of assets would enable BN to repay the loans/meet its
liabilities.
Further analysis was conducted before extending the raise, the focus of the analysis
was on reviewing forecasts vs actuals within the short timeframe of the original assessment 
and analysis of updated forecast.
Further that, The indicative valuations were used as a guide to fair value of assets
within the management accounts produced by BN and were not for the purpose of specific 
asset/property security. They were also used to indicate that value was being added to 
existing and new businesses.
The initial amount raised was a target which was later extended. It wasnt a
maximum raise.
All investors were informed of the increase in target raise amount. Investors could
have sold their loans on the secondary CS market if they considered the extended
raise added additional risk.
Mrs T invested before and after the target raise, so the increase in lending couldnt
have influenced her decision to invest.
Ability to meet loan repayments was analysed on: historical profit and loss being
stable and second on cash forecasting. Book value of fixed assets were projected by
BN.
CS say audited accounts showing negative cash flow were not filed until April 2018
so, it is unfair and unreasonable to criticise them on the basis of hindsight. This would
not have been known at the time of loan extension in March 2017.
BN breached the negative pledge when a number of subsidiaries granted fixed and
floating charges to a third party, just before BN went into administration.
During administration an offer had been made for the group of £9million, which
indicated there was sufficient security within the group.
I considered the substantial amount of new information provided by CS in response to the 
evidential gaps raised in my original provisional decision and the additional comments by 
Mrs Ts representatives, which also raised new points. Having reviewed everything, I found 
as follows:
I took into account the wider obligations on CS, which included good industry practice and 
any applicable guidance or rules from the FCA. Given the wider allegations referred to by 
CS, I clarified that the decision only concerned the complaint between Mrs T and CS.
At the time of promoting BNs investment opportunity, CS was authorised and regulated by
the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here were:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and
treat them fairly.PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not
misleading.
CS was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations being:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading.
So before holding out the promotional material provided by BN, CS needed to satisfy itself
that the material itself was clear, fair and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied
that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company BN, that it
would continue to be acting in its clients best interests. It was also relevant that the loans 
were being promoted to retail customers. It was not disputed that CS did not provide 
investment advice.
I considered the FCAs 2013 consultation on crowdfunding, which highlighted that
investors should be provided with clear, fair and not misleading information so as to be able
to make informed decisions.
CS clearly understood these requirements as shown by the commentary on the Information
Brochures, We carry out bespoke, independent due diligence on each potential borrower . .
We negotiate additional levels of protection for our Lenders and organise the documentation
so that it can be easy to understand the benefits and risks of each opportunity. Further in
comments to Mrs Ts representative,  . . we create information brochures with transparent
information so that investors can make their own decisions as to which investments suit their
investment portfolio.
BN sought £3.5 million to expand the business and open more retail premises. It relied upon
information presented in a brochure from September 2016. The first raise met the target. BN
then sought an additional £3.5 million and presented information in a brochure from April
2017. A total of £7,536,230 was raised.
Initial due diligence
In response to the initial provisional decision, CS provided copies of the extensive 
information it obtained before promoting the loans. It was unfortunate that this level of 
detailed information wasnt provided earlier, but in the interests of fairness to both parties, I 
gave it due consideration. Id seen that CS sought information about the company and group 
structure, directors CVs and experience, historical financial statements, current 
management accounts, lease agreements, asset registers and financial forecasts for the BN 
group. Credit checks were also undertaken and CS met the management team. CS then 
undertook a credit scoring process. CS also confirmed that the debentures and cross-
guarantees were drafted and considered by their legal advisers before the first promotion 
was issued.
Before the initial promotion the 2016 accounts showed net assets for the wider group of
£3,506,303. Mrs T correctly identified that BNs net assets were lower, but it was then
clarified that CS undertook due diligence into the company structure and the subsidiaries. 
BN, as the parent company, wholly owned all subsidiaries and Id seen that CS then 
selected the subsidiaries with the greatest asset base to provide the cross guarantees.CS also considered the financial forecasts, which showed an increasing asset
base with operating cash flow meeting interest payments and capital repayments on the
loan. Stress tests were applied, which showed any shortfall in loan repayments could be met
by refinancing or sale of assets.
On balance, I was satisfied that BN did undertake appropriate due diligence before 
promoting the first tranche of lending.
Loan increase and security
CS said that additional checks were undertaken before additional lending was promoted. It
analysed forecasts against actual performance in the period between the original
assessment and considered updated future forecasts. Further, it considered desktop
valuations for the business premises to check that a fair value was being used in the
management accounts and that value had been added to those premises. Details about the
new premises BN intended to acquire were also considered. So, it wasnt the case that CS
only considered the desktop valuations, which had been my original concern.
I thought very carefully about the information CS had at the time the second promotion
was approved in early 2017. Whilst Mrs T had directed my attention to a fund raise for a
separate company, A, with similar directors, (which also fell into administration), these 
companies were separate legal entities. The timeline also shows that the promotion for
company A took place after funding had closed for BNs increased target loan. So, I didnt
agree that it had a material bearing on the assessment for increasing lending to BN.
As referred to by our investigator, Id seen that CS did consider desktop valuations (rather
than red book valuations) for the premises, which showed indicative total valuations of over
£10 million and CS obtained copies of the relevant lease agreements. An increase in value
in the two new premises was also evidenced. These valuations werent being used for loan
security assessment alone, CS also considered documents about the prospective premises
BN was aiming to operate and future profitability.
As stated in the security section in the brochure, when assessing the assets, I was now 
satisfied that CS did assess the current and future profitability of BNs retail premises. The
contemporaneous documents showed that CS monitored and assessed the results from
quarters ending October 2016 and January 2017 before promoting the second tranche of
lending. These showed income slightly below forecasts with an increase in interest and
depreciation. CS recognised that revenues were below forecast but noted the two new
businesses had opened later than intended due to delays in raising the first funds. Net
assets were broadly in line with the 2016 forecasts and the accounts showed that BN had
managed their costs. Management accounts for the quarter ending April 2017, which came
out after the additional lending had opened for promotion, showed an increase in income
and net assets of £3,155,848 after credit for the crowdfunding to date had been accounted
for. The future forecasts showed there would be sufficient assets to cover the increased loan
capital repayable in 2020.
It's now apparent that the 2017 figures later identified in the administrators reports were not
available to CS at the time of the second promotion. Ive seen that CS did request and
consider quarterly accounts at the time and they didnt show substantial losses. I dont doubt
Mrs Ts disappointment at discovering the reality in the much later filed accounts, but having
seen the information provided at the time, it isnt fair and reasonable to make an assessment
with the benefit of hindsight. Overall and on balance, I consider that appropriate checks were 
undertaken before the second promotion was launched.Mrs T invested in February 2017 and it was fair to say there was no indication in the
applicable promotional material at that time that the loan target would increase. As Id said,
I thought CS did undertake appropriate checks about additional lending. But I also couldnt 
fairly conclude that Mrs T wouldnt have invested if she had known the target was £7 million.
Thats was because she did invest a further £5,000 in May 2017, by which time the target 
had increased. Mrs Ts representative confirmed that the increase in target probably led to a
decision to invest a further £5,000 rather than £10,000 and in hindsight a request should
have been made for supporting accounts. So, I think its clear that Mrs T decided to invest
even when the target increased and she chose to continue to invest on the basis of the
information provided at the time.
Security and risks
In light of the security in place for the loan set out above and the debentures and cross-
guarantees that Id seen were in place at the material time, I was satisfied that the 
information presented was accurate. CS also highlighted the negative pledge by BN, which 
meant no other encumbrance other than the debenture should have been created or 
permitted to subsist.
As BN wholly owned its subsidiaries, it had the controlling interest in ensuring that this
pledge was met. The brochure also explained that, BNs assets can be valued by looking at
the value of its current and future leased and freehold pubs and their current and future
profitability. As set out above, I was satisfied that it was more likely than not that CS did
make an assessment of the assets on this basis.
CS didnt dispute that some subsidiaries granted fixed and floating charges to a third party
just before BNs entry into administration, which substantially impacted lenders security. But
as these events took place well after the loan had been promoted, apparently in breach of
the terms of the debenture already in place, I couldnt say these matters were foreseeable at
the points Mrs T invested and they werent actions that CS could be held accountable for.
The repayment of the loan capital and interest was largely dependent on BNs performance.
CS highlighted risk warnings in the brochures such as the business risk section, which 
expressly stated there was, no guarantee that BN would remain profitable in the future. 
Online warnings highlighted a number of risks including loss of capital and expressly said 
that investors should not, lend more money than you can afford to lose. A series of risk 
factors were also set out in the brochure, including a statement that there was no guarantee
realisation of assets or security would be sufficient to cover any loans or liabilities that BN
had. Mrs T also didnt dispute that these risk warnings were in place, so balance, I
considered that CS did provide adequate risk warnings about investing.
Clear, fair and not misleading information
Two brochures existed, the first dated September 2016 (on the back page) set out a target
for £3.5 million for development of two new premises and refurbishment of a current unit.
The second dated April 2017 (again on the back page) set out the increased target of £7
million for acquiring new premises and referred expressly to £3.5 million already raised since
September 2016. Both gave details of the units that were already operational. CS said only
the second brochure would have been available at the point Mrs T invested in May 2017. It
contained an update, stating that the original plans had been executed and the two new
premises were showing an increase in value already.Its common ground that in each brochure figures for 2016 performance were provided, which
were expressly stated to be unaudited figures taken from 2016 management accounts for
the year end July 2016. The 2017 brochure explained that this raise was additional to the
£3.5 million already achieved and two new premises had been opened following the first
raise. From what Id seen, it was accurate to say there had been an increase in their value.
The brochure also acknowledged a reduction in trade in one of the existing premises said
that the investments were to be used, to grow the business by refurbishing or adding new
multi brand bars. Information about the new premises BN hoped to obtain was provided.
As addressed above, I was satisfied that information about security was accurate.
Overall, on balance, I didnt think the information provided was inaccurate or misleading at
the time.
Conclusion
It was incredibly unfortunate that the loan defaulted and BN ended up in administration, but
taking everything into account, I was not persuaded that CS fell short in the way it promoted
the loan. From all the information provided, I thought it was more likely than not that 
adequate due diligence checks were undertaken.
Both parties have now received the second provisional decision. CS has nothing further to 
add. Mr T, on behalf of Mrs T, has drawn my attention to a series of negative reviews about 
CS and various loans. Hes also highlighted a further update from CS, suggesting its unlikely 
that any funds will be recovered. He maintains that the information in the second brochure 
was misleading.
Id like to reassure both parties that I have read all the information provided and I hope Mrs T
and CS wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point raised. Ive
concentrated my findings on what I considered to be the key factors in reaching a fair and
reasonable outcome. I appreciate that Mrs T will be very disappointed, but having reviewed
everything, Ive concluded that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all the documents provided by both sides, including the recent responses 
sent on behalf of Mrs T. Im not persuaded these responses provide any new information. 
The reviews sent on behalf of Mrs T refer to comments by other investors about losses 
sustained by lending to BN and to other businesses lent to through CSs platform. But as I 
explained at the outset of my decision, this complaint is specific to Mrs Ts complaint about 
the loans she invested in. The focus of the decision is on the information provided about the 
BN loans at the time Mrs T invested and the due diligence undertaken by CS before the 
loans were promoted. 
For the reasons set out above, it remains my view that CS did undertake due diligence 
before promoting each tranche of the loan. Each brochure advised potential investors that 
the figures quoted were from unaudited accounts and I havent seen anything that changes 
my conclusions about the security provided. So, for the reasons I gave above, I dont agree 
that the information in the brochures was misleading. Its understandable that the losses sustained by Mrs S have caused disappointment and 
upset, but for the reasons Ive given in my second provisional decision and above, Im not 
persuaded that its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman