DRN-3431170
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave them a loan 
when they didnt ask for it. But later when they did ask for a loan, it was declined on the 
basis they couldnt apply again within a specified timeframe. They also complain they 
received another customers personal information.  
What happened
Mr A says he kept having problems with his car so he asked NatWest if he and Mrs A would 
qualify for a loan. He says he didnt apply for the loan but was sent the funds a few days 
later. Mr A says the car he wanted to purchase fell through, so he cancelled the loan within 
the cancellation period. Then, around two weeks later he found another car and gave a £500 
deposit to secure this. Mr A asked for the loan to be reinstated but was told a new 
application would be required. He queried this but then received a response addressed to 
another customer. Mr A then paid for the car out of his savings and complained to NatWest. 
NatWest responded and said Mrs A and Mr A applied for a loan of £10,000 on 21 August 
2020. The loan was approved and the funds were paid into their account a few days later. 
They said, when Mr A called to say the car had fallen through the call handler suggested he 
could cancel the loan but didnt explain that if he does then he would need to wait 28 days 
before reapplying should he require a new loan in the future. NatWest said Mr A called them 
to ask for the loan to be reinstated but he was informed that a new application is required in 
order to obtain a new loan. Mr A then requested the matter to be escalated as a query. They 
said this was investigated and a response was completed but the response received by Mr A 
was addressed to another customer. NatWest apologised and explained the data breach 
that occurred relates to another customer and they had taken all appropriate steps to 
address this. They said they understand why Mr A is concerned about his own personal 
information but they confirmed this was an isolated incident and it remains their priority to 
protect all customers personal information. They confirmed Mr As query response hadnt 
been sent to another customer. 
NatWest said they had considered Mr As request for his previous loan to be reinstated but 
this request was declined. And, in order to borrow another loan a new application is required 
and is subject to credit scoring and assessment. 
NatWest said in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, they agreed to offer 
£300 compensation which they paid into Mr As account.        
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mrs A and Mr A and NatWest on 16 March 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:      
The loan application 
I understand Mr A says he originally only made an enquiry into a loan and didnt want 
it at that point. He says he didnt want the loan to be paid into his account 
immediately. He wanted approval and then, after acquiring the car he wanted, he 
could request the funds to be transferred to his account.  
Ive listened to a recording of Mr As call to NatWest on 21 August. During this call, 
Mr A explains hes trying to get an idea of the amount of loan he can get. He explains 
its a joint loan with Mrs A, but he was having problems completing the online 
application form. The call handler explains they can run through some details over 
the phone and, if Mr A wishes to proceed, they can submit the application over the 
phone. The call handler takes some details from Mr A and then explains theyll firstly 
ensure the monthly payments are affordable and they do this by checking information 
they hold as well as external Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), and then if Mr A is 
happy the monthly payments are affordable, they can proceed with an application 
which includes a full credit check and then the call handler will let Mr A know of the 
outcome. 
The call handler asks if Mr A is happy to continue and he says hes not sure if hell go 
ahead with it, but he wants to get to the point where he can see what loan he can 
get. The call handler then explains the interest, the monthly repayment and the full 
repayment amount for a three and a four-year loan term. Mr A arranges for the call 
handler to call back later in the day once he has decided whether to take the loan 
out. Mr A asks whether NatWest can take the signature over the phone and the call 
handler explains they cant deal with the signature until theyve done the application 
but the quickest way would be digitally where Mrs A and  Mr A can tick a box. 
NatWest havent been able to locate the call where the loan was agreed but they 
have provided the Loan Agreement which has been signed by Mrs A and Mr A on 21 
August. The signature is represented by a tick in a box. This says Dont sign 
anything unless you are absolutely sure you want to proceed. It also says, once the 
agreement is signed, NatWest will arrange for the loan to be credited to the account 
selected by Mrs A and Mr A. NatWest have also provided a copy of letters dated 26 
August to Mrs A and Mr A confirming the loan has been agreed and the loan has 
been credited to their account. 
So, while I accept Mr As initial call was very much an enquiry around what loan 
would be available and the terms, its clear the documentation sent to Mrs A and     
Mr A to sign set out what would happen once they signed the loan agreement. The 
documents Ive seen dont suggest that, once the agreement is signed, the loan 
payment will be held until Mr A confirms he wants the funds paid. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for NatWest to have paid the funds into Mrs A and Mr As account 
once the loan agreement was signed. I note Mr A says both he and Mrs A have 
never seen the loan agreement before. But, the call handler during the original call 
explained the process in relation to signing the Loan Agreement and, from the 
information Ive seen, I think that process was followed. So, I wont be asking 
NatWest to remove this loan application from Mrs A and Mr As credit file.    
Communication around cancellation of the loan 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs A and Mr A. The key facts about this 
part of the complaint arent in dispute. NatWest have admitted they got things wrong 
when they didnt tell Mr A about the 28-day time bar in place if he wanted to reapply 
for a loan. 
Ive listened to the call recording between Mr A and NatWest on 27 August during 
which he explains he has received the loan but the car he wanted  and for which the 
loan was required  had fallen through. He says the funds are sitting in his and Mrs 
As account, but he didnt want to start the loan until he has a car hed like to buy. 
The call handler explains theres a 14-day cancellation period which would mean 
they take back the £10,000 loan and this wouldnt incur any interest or any additional 
payments. Mr A explains he doesnt feel 14-days is long enough for him to find the right car and asks if this can be extended to a month. The call handler explains it 
cant but suggests Mr A can cancel the loan and then reapply for the loan when Mr A 
feels the time is right. 
Mr A explains he doesnt want this to be detrimental to his application and the call 
handler explains it means this would go through another credit check. Its clear 
though that Mr A is worried about any possible consequences of cancelling the loan 
and gives the example that NatWest may take the view that Mr A has applied for a 
loan, cancelled and now he wants it back again. The call handler reassures Mr A 
that wont happen. The call handler says, if Mr A decides he wants the loan again 
then theyll set up an electronic system where Mr A can sign the agreement and hell 
receive the funds the next working day. Mr A then cancels the loan.   
Having listened to the call, Im in no doubt that Mr A was very anxious and worried 
about the possible consequences that cancelling the loan might have on him 
reapplying. And, he does mention in the call the purpose of the loan and that hes still 
looking for a car. So, I dont think its unreasonable to expect the call handler to have 
identified that Mr A would be back in touch at some point to reapply for the loan. I 
accept it couldnt be determined at the time when Mrs A and Mr A might reapply  
and whether this would be before or after the 28-day timescale  but I think it 
wouldve been important to have let Mr A know about this restriction being in place. I 
think the call gave Mr A a degree of reassurance that he could apply again and a 
loan would go through the same process.  
I think its right that NatWest should compensate Mrs A and Mr A for the upset, 
frustration and inconvenience caused by their poor service. I can see they have 
already paid £300 and, in line with our investigators view, theyve agreed to pay a 
further £100  bringing the total compensation to £400. I have carefully considered 
this and I think it fairly reflects the impact on Mrs A and Mr A. Ill explain why. 
I understand why Mr A was left frustrated when he wasnt allowed to apply for 
another loan because of NatWests policy involving a 28-day timescale. To consider 
the impact of this, Ive gone on to look at what Mr A likely wouldve done differently if 
he had been given clear information about the 28-day timescale. Ive looked at the 
facts and then Ive made a judgement call based on the balance of probabilities. That 
is, what Mr A more likely than not wouldve done - not what Mr A definitely wouldve 
done. Had Mr A been told about the 28-day timescale, I believe he wouldve had two 
options, to keep the funds or to cancel the loan. There would be risks connected to 
both decisions, if Mr A decided to keep the money and didnt find a car for a 
significant period of time then he would risk paying interest on a loan he didnt need 
at the time. Or, if he decided to cancel it, then there was the 28-day bar where the 
risk would be Mr A finding a car shortly after cancelling the loan but being unable to 
apply again immediately  and, its the latter which occurred. 
During the call on 27 August, Mr A says he appreciates the speed with which the 
funds have been sent but he hasnt yet secured a car and he queries whether the 
time has started in relation to his monthly payments. 
The call handler explains the time has started and Mr A says he doesnt wish to start 
the loan until he has secured a car. Its clear from this that Mr A was concerned 
about starting the monthly payments without having yet secured a car. And, Mr A 
even asks if the cancellation period can be extended to a month to allow him more 
time to look for a car. During the call, Mr A doesnt suggest that he was likely to find a 
car sooner rather than later, or even a general timescale on when he was likely to 
find a car. I do appreciate these things are difficult to predict or estimate because it 
depends on finding the right car, for the right price. So, taking this into account, and given that Mr A was clearly concerned about having 
to make the monthly payments with interest without yet having secured a car and not 
knowing for definite when he would, I think its more likely than not Mr A wouldve 
cancelled the loan even if hed been told about the 28-day timescale. That said, I do 
acknowledge that, not knowing about the 28-day timescale, denied Mr A a fair 
opportunity to make an informed decision on what would be the best option for him 
and Mrs A.     
I can see Mr A says, when he found another car, because he wasnt able to get 
another loan through NatWest, he had to use his savings to buy the car. Mr A says 
this has had a severe impact on him in that those savings couldnt then be used to 
carry out renovations to his home. He also says it prevented him and Mrs A from 
taking a holiday and it also prevents him now from using those funds for any 
emergency situation  such as visiting his son who lives overseas. I do acknowledge 
this and note Mr A feels compensation of at least £1,000 would be reasonable in the 
circumstances. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A and Mr A but I dont agree that level of 
compensation would be fair and reasonable.    
While I am sorry to hear about the impact Mr A says has been caused by NatWests 
error, I dont think I can hold NatWest directly responsible for the impact described by 
Mr A. Thats because Mr A chose to use his savings to buy the car. While I do fully 
acknowledge it was the car Mrs A and Mr A wanted and had paid a deposit for, 
NatWest didnt know Mr A would need to use his savings  and what the 
consequence of that would be  during the call on 27 August. I do note Mr A says the 
garage told him he might need to pay for storage if he didnt make full payment for 
the car, so I do understand Mr As reasons for using his savings to pay for the car to 
avoid storage costs. But, given that I believe Mr A wouldve cancelled the loan even if 
hed been told about the 28-day timescale, I believe Mr A wouldve found himself in 
this position even with knowledge of the time bar. 
Reinstating the loan 
NatWest say they considered Mr As request for the previous loan to be reinstated 
but this was declined. They say any further borrowing would be subject to a new 
application and credit scoring and assessment. I think its important to note our 
service doesnt have power to require a business to change their processes. Or to 
direct a business on what their policy should be on reinstating cancelled loans. 
NatWest have a policy  and I cant see theyve applied that policy unfairly to Mrs A 
and Mr A. 
I note Mr A queries why there should be a 28-day waiting period and why he should 
have to repeat a process he had only completed a couple of weeks earlier. I do 
acknowledge this and I can understand why Mr A feels such a short period of time 
shouldve been taken into account as his financial circumstances hadnt changed. 
This again comes down to NatWests policy, which our service doesnt have the 
power to direct them to change. I will say however that I dont think theres anything 
inherently wrong with a business having a time bar in place preventing two 
applications being made in relatively quick succession. This is because lenders will 
often carry out credit checks  as NatWest have done in this case. Lenders may 
report information about customers to the CRAs on different days through a month so 
lenders will often have a time bar in place to ensure theres sufficient time for a 
customers credit file to be updated should that customer want to apply for credit 
shortly after a previous application.  Data breach
I can see NatWest accept they got things wrong when they sent Mr A a response to 
his query with another customers details. I can understand why this worried Mr A 
and led him to believe another customer had been sent the query response intended 
for him. NatWest have said the response intended for Mr A wasnt sent to another 
customer so theres been no data breach in relation to his personal information. On 
this basis, I think the apology offered by NatWest is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I havent seen any information which suggests Mrs A and Mr As personal information 
has been shared with another customer so I cant say there has been an impact 
which justifies an award of compensation. 
Taking this all into account, I think NatWest should pay additional compensation of 
£100 bringing the total compensation to £400. I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances and fairly reflects the upset, frustration and inconvenience caused to 
Mrs A and Mr A.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs A and Mr A or NatWest, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, neither party has provided any additional points for me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that NatWest made an error in their communication with Mr A about 
cancelling the loan. So, in addition to the £300 already paid, they should pay an additional 
£100 to Mrs A and Mr A for the upset, frustration and inconvenience  bringing the total paid 
for this complaint to £400. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman