DRN-2545045
Complaint
Miss N has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with an 
unaffordable guarantor loan.
  
Background
TFS Loans provided Miss N with a loan of £7,500.00 in January 2018. The loan was secured 
by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, had an APR of 48.9% and was due to be 
repaid in 48 instalments of £317.75. The loan had interest of £7,752.00 and the total amount 
to be repaid was £12,252.00.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans hadnt carried 
out proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than not 
have shown TFS Loans Miss N wasnt able to sustainably repay the loan. TFS Loans 
disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Miss Ns complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ns complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss N would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss N wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss N 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
TFS Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required TFS Loans to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Ns ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss N. 
In practice this meant that TFS Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Miss N undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss N. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for TFS Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of 
Miss N, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were TFS Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
TFS Loans says that Miss N completed an income and expenditure assessment. It then ran 
a number of automatic checks against the details Miss N provided. These checks included a 
credit check to get an idea of her existing credit commitments. Miss N told TFS Loans that 
her monthly income was around £1,750.00. Miss N was also recorded as having monthly 
expenditure of £1.018.38 This was made up of £200 a month in rent paid to her parents and 
£818.38 to existing credit commitments. 
TFS Loans concluded that Miss N would have in excess of £400 left over after her TFS 
Loans loan repayments were taken into account. 
 Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans has said but I have significant concerns about 
the rigour it applied to its affordability assessment.
To explain, the credit check TFS Loans carried out showed that Miss N had defaulted on 
previous credit commitments. TFS says Miss N explained that this was due to her having 
lost her job but she was now back in employment. This was even though 2 of these defaults 
had occurred within the previous 2 years and Miss Ns application recorded that shed been 
in the same employment with the same employer for 3 years and 6 months. 
Im also mindful that even though its credit check doesnt appear to show this, TFS was 
aware Miss N had recently taken a guarantor loan with another provider. TFS says Miss N 
was going to use some of the funds from this loan to partially settle the loan with the other 
provider. But I have to question whether it was reasonable to believe this given any savings, 
if any at all, would be marginal at best seeing how recently that loan had been taken out, it 
was for a larger amount, its similar interest rate and the need to pay interest when settling 
the loan early. So I think that there were a number of inconsistencies in the information TFS 
gathered as it simply didnt add up.   
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that it would have been reasonable and proportionate for 
TFS Loans to have taken further steps to verify Miss Ns income and expenditure. As I cant 
see that TFS Loans did take additional steps to verify Miss Ns income and expenditure and 
instead chose to rely on, what appears to be an over optimistic calculation of her monthly 
disposable income bearing in mind the other available information, I dont think that its 
checks before providing Miss N with this loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Miss N would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Miss N wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Miss N has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Miss N has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks TFS Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from TFS Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Miss Ns financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time.
TFS Loans was required to establish whether Miss N could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Miss N has provided in light of all of this. The information Ive been provided with shows that Miss Ns income was less than what 
shed declared to TFS Loans. The information provided also shows that Miss N had taken a 
number of loans with short-term lenders in the period leading up to this application, as well 
as the guarantor loan with another provider and was heavily overdrawn as result of meeting 
her commitments to her existing creditors. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss N would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering significant adverse 
consequences. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have alerted TFS Loans to the fact that it shouldnt have provided 
this loan to Miss N. 
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss N in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude that TFS Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss N in 
some other way.  
So I find that TFS Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss N in some other 
way.  
Did Miss N lose out as a result of TFS Loans unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss N has paid and is still being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what TFS 
Loans did wrong. 
So I think that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what TFS Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss N
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ns complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £7,500.00 
originally lent. TFS Loans should treat any payments made should the new starting 
balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Miss N;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss N to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Ns credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind TFS Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it intends to collect on 
an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have been made to the 
account, and its the case that Miss N is experiencing financial difficulty.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ns complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
put things right for Miss N in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman