DRN-3216610
The complaint
Ms S says Bamboo Limited acted irresponsibly when it accepted her as a guarantor on a
loan taken out by a third party.  
What happened
In January 2020 Bamboo gave a 24-month instalment loan for £3,000 to the borrower. The
monthly repayments were £185.19 and the total repayable was £4,341.30.
Ms S signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That meant that
if the borrower failed to make the repayments Bamboo could seek repayment from Ms S.
This decision does not consider whether it was reasonable for Bamboo to give the loan to
the borrower. It assesses whether it was reasonable for Bamboo to accept Ms S as a
guarantor for the loan.
Ms S says she was pressured into being the guarantor, the borrower told her to lie about
their relationship status and has sent threatening messages now the loan is in arrears. She
says the loan was not affordable and Bamboo should not have accepted her. She wants to
be removed as the guarantor of the loan.
Our investigator concluded that Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. He said Bamboo had
not carried out proportionate checks and had it done so it ought to have realised it was
unlikely Ms S would be able to sustainable repay the loan if she needed to. He did not find
however that Bamboo could have been aware that Ms S was being pressured into being the
guarantor.
Bamboo disagreed. It said after reviewing Ms Ss bank statements it seemed the investigator
has considered discretionary income, as well as essential living expenses, to conclude the
lending decision was wrong. It maintained that its assessment that loan would be affordable 
for Ms S if she needed to make payments was fair. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator, but I relied on different and additional 
findings, so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final 
decision. I asked both parties to send in any comments or new information by 15 December 
2021.
I considered the following questions in my assessment:
Did Bamboo obtain Ms Ss properly informed consent to become guarantor for the
loan?
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Ms S was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower
did not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the
time?
Ultimately, did Bamboo make a fair lending decision (given Ms S would be equally
liable for this loan with the borrower)? 
 
Extract from my provisional decision
Did Bamboo obtain Ms Ss properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
Ive listened to the call recording of the conversation between Bamboo and Ms S that was
part of the loan application process. Before outlining the responsibilities and risks of being a
guarantor Bamboo asked if Ms S was alone on the call and checked that she could speak
openly with no external pressure. She confirmed she was on her own. Bamboo explained
the role and responsibilities of being a guarantor; made clear that she was equally
responsible for the debt; and that she could opt out or request to be declined without the
borrower knowing that was her choice. Ms S confirmed to the adviser she understood this
and would be able to afford the payments. She confirmed she wasnt under pressure from
the applicant or anybody else to act as guarantor.
Ive also seen the Guarantee and Indemnity agreement signed by Ms S. This set out her
rights and obligations. So overall I think Ms S consented to becoming the loan guarantor and
was told about the consequences of being a guarantor.
I have thought carefully about what Ms S has said about being pressured into being a
guarantor and being told to say she was the borrowers friend, not partner. I accept this is
possible, however I have to reach my decision based on the available evidence - and from
this what it is reasonable to conclude the lender ought to have known at the time.
Having listened to the calls between Ms S and Bamboo, I cannot fairly say that the lender
should have concluded Ms S wasnt a willing guarantor. As Ive said, the advisor asked if she
had been placed under any pressure to act as a guarantor on the loan and Ms S replied that
she hadnt. I can see from the text messages Ms S has sent in that the relationship between
herself and the borrower has broken down and I am sorry this has made her feel stressed
and threatened, but I can only consider whether the lender is at fault here. And as Ive said
Ive found no evidence to allow me to fairly conclude that it should have been aware Ms S
was under pressure to act as guarantor.
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms S was in
a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did not? If not what
would better checks have shown?
Bamboo asked for some information from Ms S before accepting her as the guarantor. It
asked about her residential status and housing costs, number of dependents and her
income. It verified her income using third party data and used national statistics to estimate
her living costs. It completed a credit check to understand her existing credit commitments
and credit history. From these checks combined Bamboo conclude Ms S had sufficient
disposable income to be able to repay the loan if she needed to.
I am not wholly persuaded these checks were proportionate given Ms S could need to be
able to make the repayments sustainably over a two-year period - and the lenders
calculations were done based on average living expenses, rather than her actuals. But I
wont comment further on this as I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision even
based on the information it had gathered. Ill explain why.
Bamboo understood Ms Ss monthly income to be £1,250. It knew from her credit file that
she already had monthly credit commitments of £231.35. Accepting her as guarantor on this
loan meant she could need to spend around a third of her income each month to service her
debts. So I think Bamboo ought to have realised there was a risk this would not besustainably affordable for her. To meet its obligations as a responsible lender it needed to
check this, not just the pounds and pence affordability. CONC 5.2A.12(R) sets out:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
I cant see that Bamboo has evidenced it meet these obligations. It follows I think Bamboo
was wrong to accept Ms S as the guarantor on this loan.
I then set out what Bamboo would need to do if I upheld Ms Ss complaint.
Both parties responded before the deadline. Neither party provided any comments or new 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending, as well as the key
rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice, is set out on our
website. And I used this approach to help me decide Ms Ss complaint.
As neither Bamboo nor Ms S sent in any comments or new evidence in response to my 
provisional decision it follows I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out in 
it. It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to accept Ms S as the guarantor on this loan. 
Putting things right
Bamboo  in so far as is reasonably practicable  must put Ms S back in the position she
would be in now if its wrong hadnt taken place. This means Bamboo putting Ms S in the
position shed now be in if she hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a
guarantor on this loan.
Bamboo should put things right for Ms S by:
a) Releasing Ms S from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement and
then terminating it.
b) Refunding any payments made by Ms S as guarantor (though it seems she has not made
any). Bamboo must add 8%* simple interest a year to each of those sums, from the date
Ms S paid them to the date the refund is paid to her.
c) Removing any information about this loan from Ms Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give Ms Sa certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am planning to uphold Ms Ss complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman