DRN-3356468
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr H, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. 
What happened
T held a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. T claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Ts claim. They said while the policy covers business interruption due to 
a specified list of illnesses, Covid-19 wasnt one of the covered illnesses. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, T brought its complaint to our service. It said Covid-19 
wasnt known about when it bought the policy on 5 March 2020 so couldnt have been 
included in the policy. 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
T asked for an ombudsmans decision as it didnt think it was fair that the policy didnt 
provide cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ts business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ts claim.
Our investigator explained to T why the core business interruption section and extensions 
requiring the interruption to Ts business to be as a result of damage dont provide cover for 
its claim. This doesnt seem to be in dispute, so Ill focus my decision on the extension for 
specified illnesses. For completeness, I would like to reassure T that I have considered its 
policy in its entirety and dont think there is cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
The extension for specified illnesses covers loss as a result of a specified illness occurring at 
Ts business premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. The policy defines a specified illness 
as an illness sustained by a person from one of a list of diseases set out in the policy. The 
list doesnt include Covid-19. 
Covid-19 became a notifiable disease in England on 5 March 2020. But while Covid-19 was 
known about when T bought its policy, it might not have been known about at the time the 
policy booklet was written, so I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. 
However, there were similar policies on the market that provide cover in the circumstances 
of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all notifiable diseases as set out and 
updated on a Government-defined list. Ts policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of 
the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which 
implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think 
the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt 
provide cover for Ts claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome T was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Allianz to pay Ts claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman