DRN-4466370
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable given his circumstances at the time and 
so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr A with a loan for £6,000.00 in March 2022. This loan had an APR 
of 8.9% and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £148.15. One of our 
investigators reviewed what Mr A and Likely Loans had told us. And she didnt recommend 
that Mr As complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr A could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr As application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr A could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr A has said he was in financial difficulty given his circumstances at the 
time and so he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr A and Likely Loans have said. 
Mr A is unhappy that the term guaranteed application was used at the time. I dont know 
what marketing material Mr A saw. Nonetheless, the first thing for me to say is that Likely 
Loans did carry out checks before deciding whether to lend to him. My suspicion is that the 
term Mr A is unhappy with was used because the search engine Mr A used had conducted 
some kind of checks, based on the information that it held, in the background. 
In any event and most importantly, Likely Loans not only carried checks it didnt just accept 
what Mr A had said either. It carried out credit searches which showed that Mr As 
unsecured credit commitments werent excessive in comparison to his income and there was 
no significant adverse information such as missed payments, defaulted accounts or county 
court judgments recorded against him.
I accept that Mr A appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. For example, Mr A says he was struggling and regularly using an overdraft. Im 
sorry to hear about what Mr A has told us. But I think that it would be helpful for me to 
explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong.
Given the amount of the monthly payments here and the lack of obvious indicators of 
significant difficulty in the information Likely Loans did obtain, as well as the relatively low 
interest rate, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into requesting copies of Mr As bank statements. 
Furthermore, while Mr A may have been overdrawn, the funds from this loan could have 
been used to clear his balance at a much lower interest rate. This loan had a lower rate of 
interest than Mr As overdraft and would have provided him with the opportunity to repay 
what he already owed in fixed monthly instalments.
Its probably also worth me saying that at best, even if I were to accept that further checks 
were necessary, which Im not necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such checks 
would only have gone as far as finding out more about Mr As regular living costs. I dont 
think that obtaining bank statements was the only way that Likely Loans could have done 
this type of check either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr A - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman