DRN-4066875
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt refund a payment she 
made using her credit card.
What happened
Ms F, using her Nationwide credit card, purchased a safari holiday for herself and her family 
from a supplier/merchant  who I will refer to as the Company. The total cost charged to Ms 
Fs credit card was approximately £11,025 made over three payments of around £2,882 in 
July 2022, £311 in August 2022, and £7,832 in September 2022.
On 20 October 2022, around eight days before they were due to travel, Ms F contacted the 
Company and asked what her options are as one of the travellers was too ill to travel. The 
Company replied and provided their cancellation terms that explained that she wasnt 
entitled to a refund if she cancelled less than 30 days before travel. However, Ms F is 
unhappy because she said that the Company agreed to change the dates of the booking for 
her but didnt do so. As Ms F was unable to get a satisfactory resolution from the 
supplier/merchant, she contacted Nationwide.
In December 2022, Nationwide wrote to Ms F and said that, after reviewing her claim, they 
couldnt help her because for any claim to be successful, there must have been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the merchant. In this correspondence they explained that in 
Ms Fs situation, the merchant was still willing to provide the services and booking she had 
paid for. So, they said, as a result there was no breach of contract. They acknowledged that 
Ms F was unable to continue with the booking based on doctors' advice, but they said this 
isn't something that the merchant was responsible for. And they felt that the merchant had 
acted within the booking terms and conditions because Ms F cancelling just days prior to 
departure meant she wasnt entitled to a refund.
Ms F was not happy that Nationwide wouldnt refund her the money she paid to the 
Company, so she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She didnt think 
Nationwide acted unfairly by not raising a chargeback and she didnt think there was a 
successful claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75), as there 
was no breach or misrepresentation of the contract. 
Ms F disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
This decision is not about the Company who isnt a financial service provider for the 
transaction in question and so doesnt fall within this services remit. So, in this decision Im 
only considering the question of whether Nationwide have treated Ms F fairly. 
As Ms F used her credit card to book the safari holiday with the Company, Nationwide had 
two options to pursue a refund for her  chargeback and Section 75. Its normal practice to 
try a chargeback first. 
Chargeback
In some cases a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. The chargeback is a voluntary scheme which looks to resolve payment 
disputes between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. These disputes are dealt with under 
the relevant card scheme rules. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a 
chargeback when a consumer asks for one, but I would consider it good practice for 
Nationwide to pursue a chargeback, as long as it was possible to do so (within the scheme 
rules and criteria) and provided there is a reasonable prospect of success. This would 
include cases where goods or services arent supplied.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund as the supplier/merchant can put forward a 
defence to the chargeback claim. If the chargeback is defended, Nationwide could pursue 
the chargeback further and ultimately ask the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the 
outcome. My role in such cases is not to second-guess the schemes arbitration decision or 
the schemes rules, but to determine whether the card issuer (in this case, Nationwide) acted 
fairly and reasonably when presenting, or choosing not to present, and when choosing 
whether to continue with the chargeback process on behalf of their cardholder (in this case, 
Ms F).
Nationwide didnt raise a chargeback, so Ive taken this into consideration when looking at 
whether they acted fairly by not pursuing this option. Ive also taken a note of what both 
parties have told us.
As I said, I would consider it good practice for Nationwide to pursue a chargeback, bearing in 
mind the schemes rules and criteria, and whether there is a reasonable prospect of 
success. Nationwide didnt raise a chargeback. But Im satisfied that they didnt act unfairly 
or unreasonably by not raising it, as I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of 
success. I say this because the Company did explain to Ms F that, because she contacted 
them approximately eight days before her travel time, she wasnt entitled to a refund under 
the terms of the contract. Ive also checked their website which confirms this point.
Ms F has said that the Company told her that they would change the dates of the holiday for 
her but then didnt. So, Ive considered this, but from the email exchange that she had with 
the Company, I cant see that this was agreed. I can see that, as a gesture of goodwill, the 
Company tried to help her resell part of her safari holiday package, but they did explain to 
her that, even if they were successful in this, she would still incur certain costs. And Ive not 
been given anything else to show that the above cancellation rights wouldnt apply to her 
situation. As such, I cant say the Company was under any obligation to rebook the safari 
holiday or to refund the money she paid if she chose not to go on the holiday. So, Im 
satisfied Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably by not pursuing the chargeback request, as 
there was no reasonable prospect of success.
Section 75 claim Section 75 sets out that, in certain circumstances, Ms F can bring a claim against 
Nationwide for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Company. This is 
because, as the credit provider, Nationwide is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the Company. Theres no suggestion of a misrepresentation here, nor 
does the available evidence indicate one. So, Ive thought about whether Ms F has 
demonstrated that theres been a breach of contract.
From the evidence available, it seems Ms F purchased a safari holiday for herself and her 
family which, most likely, was not refundable under the terms of the contract if a valid 
cancellation was made within 30 days of the travel date. I know Ms F feels that the Company 
shouldve rebooked her holiday or refunded her the money she paid as she never went on 
the safari holiday. But theres nothing in the available evidence to show that this is 
something the Company was required to do. And the Company was still willing to provide the 
services that Ms F had booked. So, Im satisfied that she hasnt proven that there was a 
breach of contract and, as such, Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not giving Ms F a refund or by not rebooking her flights.
As above, Section 75 only applies in certain circumstances. Given that Im satisfied Ms F 
has not demonstrated that there has been a breach of contract and theres no suggestion of 
a misrepresentation, I dont need to make a finding on whether all those circumstances are 
present here.
I sympathise with Ms F for the difficulties that she is experiencing but, taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I think Nationwide has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with her chargeback and her Section 75 claim. So, its not fair or 
reasonable for me to require Nationwide to take any action in response to Ms Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman