DRN-4138566
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the service they received from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) when enquiring about making changes to their mortgage. They say as a result, they 
were unable to make an informed choice about their options and they seek compensation as 
a resolution. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a residential mortgage with Halifax. Their most recent mortgage offer 
from 2018 shows a balance of around £200,000 with a remaining term of 14 years and one 
month. The mortgage was largely on interest only terms with a noted repayment vehicle of 
stocks and shares to the value of £40,000. 
Mr and Mrs F had agreed to a fixed interest rate of 2.69% for five years (until 31 October 
2023). After which their account would revert to Halifax Homeowner Variable Rate. The offer 
explained that if the mortgage was redeemed early, an early repayment charge (ERC) would 
apply on a staggered basis  starting with 5% of the amount repaid in the first year, reducing 
by 1% each year thereafter until the end date of the product.
Concerned about the cost-of-living and rising interest rates, Mr and Mrs F contacted Halifax 
in July 2022 to enquire about their options. They say the communication from Halifax staff 
was poor, the staff were unhelpful, unknowledgeable, disinterested, rude and unwilling to 
help. 
Mr and Mrs F say they raised their concerns with Halifax in June 2022, but their complaint 
wasnt properly logged, and it wasnt until 21 September 2022 that they received a final 
response to the complaint. 
Halifax said the first record it had of a complaint being logged was on 5 September 2022. It 
considered Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In summary it said 
Mr and Mrs F were given clear and not-misleading information in response to their enquiries. 
Specifically, the ERC applicable if redeeming their current mortgage early and the process 
and criteria for a term extension. Mr and Mrs F were offered an appointment to go ahead 
with an application for a term-extension, but they chose not to. Halifax said that the 
complaint theyve raised about obtaining a new Equity Release mortgage would need to be 
raised separately as the complaint is about a different subsidiary of the Lloyds Banking 
Group.
Mr and Mrs F got in touch with us. They told our service that theyve since re-mortgaged with 
a different lender. They incurred an ERC with Halifax and feel disappointed that due to the 
lack of proactiveness from Halifax to help them, theyve potentially lost out on the ability to 
remain with Halifax and re-mortgage onto a lower 10-year fixed rate deal without paying an 
ERC. They are seeking compensation for any losses incurred.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that their complaint be upheld. When considering 
everything, he felt Halifax had acted in accordance with its process and he didnt think it got 
things wrong. Mr and Mrs F didnt accept that conclusion. They still felt they had been 
treated unfairly by Halifax, so they asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on 
their case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs F feel very strongly about their case. I can assure them that whilst I 
have carefully considered all the submissions made, I wont address each and every point 
that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider most relevant to how Ive 
reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our service. 
Unlike a court, we dont rely on the parties involved to prove their case. I have the power to 
carry out my own investigation, focusing on what I think is relevant in reaching my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable for both parties concerned.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be
disappointing for Mr and Mrs F. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to
understand why I have come to this conclusion. 
Ill start by summarising the contact that took place between Mr and Mrs F and Halifax. Our 
investigator has already set out the background of events in detail and hes also provided 
copies of the available call recordings to Mr and Mrs F  but for completeness Ive set out 
my own findings below.
Contact made and the information provided
Mr and Mrs F initially made enquiries with Halifax on 7 July 2022  both online and by 
phone. 
Mrs F submitted the following online enquiry we are on an interest only mortgage looking at 
options when interest rate comes to end and retirement interest only mortgage. Halifax 
called Mrs F back in response to her enquiry. Halifax said it wasnt possible to switch their 
current mortgage to a 10-year fixed rate deal because that would take them past the current 
term of their mortgage. And lending past the age of 70 on interest only goes against their 
lending criteria. 
Mrs F also called Halifax that day to make similar general enquiries about possibly switching 
their current deal early. Halifax provided the details of the current rates. Mrs F was surprised 
to be told that theyd still incur an ERC for switching to a new deal with Halifax. She says that 
the call handler didnt seem sure on this point, but Im satisfied that he was, and the ERC 
implications were properly explained. During this call Mrs F also enquired about a retirement 
interest only mortgage. The advisor referred her to Scottish Widows. Mrs F said shes 
already spoken to them about Equity Release, but they werent eligible due to their property 
containing a septic tank. 
Following these initial enquiries Mr and Mrs F shopped around. They sought some advice 
from an independent broker and explored other options through different lenders. 
Mr F called Halifax back on 13 July 2022 to get some more information. He referred to an 
earlier call with Mrs F where she was told it wasnt possible to switch to the 10-year fixed 
rate deal because of age limits. Mr F said their broker told them Halifax would in fact lend 
past the age of 70. He said the broker had found them a good deal, but they first wanted to 
check if they could fulfil their plans with Halifax to avoid having to switch lenders. Halifax explained its criteria. It said that on interest only it would only lend up to the age of 
70. It could lend up to the age of 80 but the mortgage would need to be on repayment terms. 
Halifax also clarified that past the age of 70, only pension income would be considered to 
assess affordability. It wouldnt take into account earned income. Halifax explained Mr and 
Mrs F could explore the option of extending their mortgage further, but theyd need to speak 
to a mortgage advisor to go through a full application process. Mr F was grateful for the 
clarity. He said hed speak to Mrs F and call back to discuss possibly making an 
appointment. 
What followed was an email from Mrs F to the staff member shed spoken to previously. The 
email said:
Hi X,
Further to our phone call the other day, I have tasked my husband with doing some research 
across the entire mortgage business including brokers who highlighted to us that many 
mortgage companies now have extended their age limits some as high as 85 years old but in 
respect to Halifax they believed that is at least 80 years old.
We are now totally confused as my husband actually spoke to a Halifax Representative in 
your mortgage product information department today and went through our circumstances 
and the advice given was there does not appear to be any problems with re mortgaging to a 
term of 15 years based on our age on an interest only basis with a fixed rate of 3.33%.
We are about to make a decision to go with [a different lender] and clearly we do not make 
that decision if we could have remained with Halifax as indicated by mortgage brokers and 
your own departments.
X responded to the email. It appears because Mrs F had referred to someone going through 
their circumstances and receiving advice, X thought a mortgage application had been 
made. X said she couldnt find details of a mortgage application but could provide some 
clarity on the criteria for lending to the age of 80. She said, in some circumstances Halifax 
could lend up to the age of 80 if the term is only being extended to align with a Repayment 
Plan which has a fixed maturity date (e.g. Endowment or Investment Bond). Which didnt 
appear to be the case for Mr and Mrs F.
Mrs F responded with another email asking about shorter fixed rate options and the interest 
rates applicable and asking for clarity of the ERC payable now and after the 1% drop from 1 
November 2022. X said that it would be best to arrange a call to talk through their questions, 
she said she wasnt working the next day, so she arranged a call with a colleague.  
Mr and Mrs F say the call took place (albeit with a different colleague). Mr and Mrs F say the 
staff member confirmed that they were eligible for an internal product transfer with no ERC 
and an interest rate of 3.30%. They say this information was confirmed in an online chat too 
and completely confused them as the information now given was inherently different to what 
theyd been told before. They say that they also found out later that Halifax did at the time 
offer a Retirement interest only mortgage with a rate of 3.02% (and no fees or an ERC) but 
this was never discussed or mentioned. 
Were Mr and Mrs F misinformed or given an inadequate service from Halifax?
Mr and Mrs F wanted to end their current mortgage deal early to secure a 10-year fixed rate 
deal ahead of any anticipated interest rate rises and explore lending into retirement options. The core of their complaint is that they were mis-informed on several occasions  particularly 
about the ERC applicable if they were to redeem their existing mortgage early and on 
Halifaxs policy on lending into retirement. Ill set out Halifaxs relevant policies and then 
consider whether Mr and Mrs F were misled or misinformed.
Lending into retirement and extending the term of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs F complain that they were at several times given inconsistent information about 
their ability to extend the term of their mortgage to accommodate switching to a 10-year fixed 
rate deal.  
The mortgage term is the length of time a mortgage is due to run for. This is agreed when 
the mortgage is taken out and will be shown on the mortgage agreement. Extending the term 
of a mortgage is a variation to the existing mortgage contract and requires customers to 
undergo a full mortgage review to proceed. Its only once a fact find has been carried out to 
establish the customers circumstances and affordability that a lender can give tailored 
advice. Anything outside of that is considered general information.
It's important to note here that Mr and Mrs F didnt go through a full application or as such 
receive any tailored advice about the options available to them based on their specific 
circumstances. Instead, they made several general enquiries to Halifax and in return 
received general information about general lending criteria from different members of staff.
Mr and Mrs Fs enquiries about extending the term of their mortgage were largely made on 
13 July 2022. A couple of calls took place that day. During both calls it was explained that 
Halifax could lend to the age of 80 but to lend past the age of 70, affordability would be 
assessed on pension income only. Affordability would only be assessed on earned income 
up to the age of 70. 
I accept in the first call it was suggested to Mr F that they could possibly extend their 
mortgage past the age of 70 and affordability could possibly be assessed on interest only 
terms. The first call handler clearly explained nothing was guaranteed and theyd have to go 
through a full mortgage review to explore their options. Mr F called back a second time and 
was given clear information about Halifaxs policy. That being that the maximum age at the 
end of the mortgage term is 80 years for all repayment mortgages and 70 if any part of the 
mortgage is on an interest only basis. So I cant reasonably say theres been any detriment 
here and Mr F was in receipt of the correct information about Halifaxs policy that same day 
to make an informed choice about their options moving forward.
When considering everything Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs F were intentionally misled by 
Halifax or that they received the poor service they suggest. As Ive explained, to vary the 
existing mortgage contact by changing its term  requires an application with a mortgager 
advisor. This was made clear to Mr and Mrs F, and they were offered an appointment at an 
early stage during their initial enquires.
This is the usual process and would have been the most effective way for them to truly 
understand all their options and receive the advice they were after. Its unclear why they 
chose not to proceed with an application through Halifax. Instead, they continued to make 
several general enquiries which meant the information they received was limited and was 
not specific to their personal circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs F had mentioned finding attractive deals with other lenders including a 10-year 
fixed rate on interest only terms. Its unclear what deal they chose to go with in the end, but 
there was nothing preventing them from exploring their options further with Halifax. Instead, it appears to me that they chose to proceed with a different lender to secure a deal (that they 
knew suited them) promptly amidst a period of fast rising interest rates. Halifax acted as Id 
expect by offering an appointment for a mortgage review and application. So, in the 
circumstances I cant reasonably hold it responsible for the choices Mr and Mrs F made. 
ERC
Mr and Mrs F dont dispute that an ERC is chargeable in line with their mortgage terms. But 
they say that Halifax has deliberately withheld a copy of a further call that took place and the 
supporting chat history during which they say Halifax confirmed that they were eligible for an 
internal product transfer with no ERC. As such theyre concerned that theyve possibly 
missed out her on an internal transfer option. I can assure them they havent, Ill explain why.
Whilst I have no reason to disbelieve what Mr and Mrs F have said, Halifax has assured our 
service that its provided copies of all the calls and contact history it has on file in relation to 
this complaint. In any event even if Mrs and Mrs F were given that information as they 
suggest, this has little bearing on the outcome of this complaint.
I can confirm that under the relevant rules, lenders are entitled to apply an ERC. And Im 
satisfied that the ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer, which 
Mr and Mrs F accepted when they took out their existing mortgage deal. 
Im satisfied that during all the calls Ive listened to Mr and Mrs F were given clear and 
accurate information about the ERC applicable if they were to redeem their existing 
mortgage early  including the different amounts payable due to the staggered nature of the 
ERC terms. According to their mortgage terms theyd incur an ERC equivalent to 3% of the 
amount repaid on or before 31 October 2022 and 1.75% of the amount repaid thereafter. 
The ERC formed part of the contract Mr and Mrs F had with Halifax and in line with the 
mortgage terms, I can confirm the ERC was applicable irrespective of whether Mr and Mrs F 
were applying for a new rate internally or re-mortgaging with a different lender. When a 
lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied into the 
fixed rate for the duration of the term. So, it was not possible for them to obtain a new 
interest rate with Halifax without incurring an ERC  thats the nature of a fixed rate product. 
If that werent the case, customers would be free to change their product with their lender at 
any time, without paying a fee  defeating the purpose of a fixed rate product.
And when taking all of that into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs F relied on that information 
to their detriment. They still chose to redeem their mortgage with Halifax early and re-
mortgage with a different lender  knowing that would certainly incur an ERC in the 
circumstances. So even if they were given incorrect information about the internal process, 
as they suggest, that has little bearing here as they still went elsewhere and even if they 
chose to switch to a new rate internally, in the circumstances it wouldnt be unreasonable for 
Halifax to apply its correct policy and apply an ERC. 
So, it follows that Im satisfied Mr and Mrs F were given enough information to know how the 
correct ERC policy operates and Ive seen nothing that suggests the amount they paid 
should be refunded in the circumstances.
Summary
For the reasons Ive explained Im not persuaded there has been any detriment to Mr and 
Mrs F here caused by Halifaxs actions. To end their current mortgage deal early and secure 
a new 10-year fixed rate theyd need to pay the ERC regardless of whether they stayed with Halifax or not. If they wanted to extend their mortgage past the age of 70 and remain on 
interest only, they would have always had to re-mortgage with a different lender as that was 
outside Halifaxs lending criteria. They may have been able to remain with Halifax and 
extend their mortgage past the age of 70 (albeit not on interest only terms) but they didnt 
make an application to explore that further so I cant safely say its certain their application 
would be accepted with Halifax in any event.
I also dont think staff Mr and Mrs F spoke to were rude or dismissive as they suggest. All 
the calls were quite pleasant, and the staff were as helpful as they could be in the 
circumstances. I appreciate that since sharing copies of the calls with Mr and Mrs F they 
have some concerns about the nature of the conversation that took place between two 
Halifax colleagues during an internal transfer. Halifax has consented to our service sharing 
those calls with Mr and Mrs F, so its aware they are in their possession. However, this is not 
something Im able to consider as part of my decision because this is a new complaint that 
has not yet been raised with Halifax. Under our rules businesses must first be given the 
chance to address a complaint before our service can consider it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman