DRN-3895457
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money they lost as a result 
of a scam
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2017 and 2018 Mr and Mrs B were the victim of an investment scam. They sent £37,500 
to the scammer  an investment broker who Ill refer to as Mr K  under the belief the funds 
were to be invested in bonds. 
The transfers in question, are:
 
Payment Date Amount
27 October 2017 £25,000
14 March 2018 £10,000
14 March 2018 £2,500
Total: £37,500
Mrs B was first introduced to Mr K through a friend the year prior to this scam. Her friend 
invested in international property through a third-party firm recommended by Mr K. And, as 
part of researching this investment, Mrs B travelled with her friend to the country of the 
investment property. Mr and Mrs B have explained they didnt invest at that time as they 
didnt have the funds available. 
Mr K later suggested to Mr and Mrs B they take out a lifetime mortgage to raise the funds to 
invest, as their friend did, in the international property  which they were told would provide a 
guaranteed income for five years and could be sold at any time (making a healthy profit if 
sold after five years). Mr and Mrs B were then introduced to a mortgage broker, through 
Mr K, and released about £142,000 of equity in their property. After being offered the option 
of investing either £90,000 or £140,000, they proceeded with making the £90,000 investment 
in the international property on 25 October 2017. Mr and Mrs B received monthly incentive 
income of about £1,100 per month on this investment until about mid 2019 when they 
stopped. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt invest all the released equity into the international property, they had 
a surplus available. Mr K told Mr and Mrs B that, in addition to arranging the international 
property investment with the third-party firm, he also provided other investment opportunities 
for clients as he had contacts at banks offering exclusive investments. And he convinced 
Mr and Mrs B to initially invest £25,000 in a four-year bond, with the funds being transferred 
two days after the £90,000 payment. He then later persuaded Mr and Mrs B to invest a 
further £12,500 in March 2018 in a two-and-a-half-year bond.
Mr and Mrs B realised theyd been scammed after the incentive income stopped and non-
receipt of the funds from the two and a half year bonds. So, they contacted Barclays about 
this in October 2020. Barclays records show they completed an investigation into the fraud 
claim, and that they closed the case in December 2020 as they were unable to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs B. Barclays say a letter wouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs B confirming this at 
the time, although a copy hasnt been found. Mr and Mrs B say they never received such a 
letter.
Mr K pleaded guilty to fraud charges in August 2021 and was later jailed. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted Barclays in January 2022 asking for an update and were told their 
case had been closed. A complaint was raised and Barclays sent Mr and Mrs B a summary 
resolution communication letter that provided referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by our Investigator but he didnt think Barclays had to do 
anything further. He said, given the three transfers were (comparatively) much smaller in 
value than the £90,000 payment, he didnt think Barclays had reason to intervene before 
releasing them. And so, they werent responsible for Mr and Mrs Bs loss. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our Investigator and so the matter was referred to me to 
decide. I wrote to both parties explaining that I intended to reach a different outcome to our 
Investigator. I said:
"It isnt in dispute here that the above payments were authorised by Mr and Mrs B. 
And so, Ive considered whether Barclays ought to have taken steps to protect 
Mr and Mrs B from the scam at the time. In short, should Barclays have intervened 
regarding these transactions.
Having looked at Mr and Mrs Bs account usage before the scam occurred, it was 
mostly used for low value infrequent spending  except for the £90,000 payment 
(which, as I understand, had no additional checks before being released). The first 
payment of £25,000 therefore was for significantly more than Mr and Mrs B typically 
spent on their account. Considering this, and that the payment was being sent to a 
new payee, I think it ought to have been identified by Barclays as unusual. So, I think 
Barclays ought to have held the payment and contacted Mr and Mrs B about it.  
Ive therefore thought about, had this happened, whether Mr and Mrs Bs loss 
couldve been prevented. And, after giving this careful thought, I think that wouldve 
happened here. Ill explain why.
Had Barclays contacted Mr and Mrs B about the payment, then I think its likely they 
wouldve explained the purpose of the transfer  that being for investment purposes 
on the advice of Mr K. At which point, given Barclays have a greater understanding of 
investment scams and their prevalence, it wouldve been reasonable for Barclays to 
have questioned Mr and Mrs B about it further. I think this conversation ought to have 
included appropriate warnings about the risk of investment scams and tailored 
questioning based on Mr and Mrs Bs specific circumstances.
This shouldve included how Mr and Mrs B came across the opportunity and what 
checks theyd carried out to ensure the legitimacy of Mr K and the investment he was 
offering. And I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve explained Mr K was introduced to them 
via a friend and he assisted them in investing in [international] property by releasing 
equity in their property (as he did with their friend), with some of the remaining funds 
being used for this investment. And that theyd seen Mr Ks company website and 
used the mortgage broker he referred them to for equity release.
Upon being told this, I think it wouldve been appropriate for Barclays to have probed Mr and Mrs B further about the £25,000 investment being offered by Mr K. As I have 
no reason to think they wouldnt have answered honestly, I think Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve explained that theyd been told it would be invested over four years but they 
hadnt received official paperwork confirming the specific investment details. I think 
this wouldve been seen as a red flag to Barclays and that further questioning ought 
to have included whether theyd checked the FCA register to ensure Mr K  and his 
firm  was authorised to undertake regulated investment activities (thereby ensuring 
his investment funds received the relevant regulatory protection). To which Mr and 
Mrs B wouldve likely confirmed they hadnt. And so, I consider it wouldve been 
reasonable to have expected Barclays to have warned Mr and Mrs B there was a risk 
of it being a scam and, recommended they carry out further checks  including 
checking FCA register  before proceeding with making the £25,000 payment.
Ive considered that Mr K had, by this point, acquired Mr and Mrs Bs trust  
evidenced by the fact hed been able to persuade them into releasing about 
£145,000 of equity in their home to facilitate the £90,000 [international] property 
investment. And so, Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs B wouldve remained 
convinced about the investment opportunity and proceeded regardless of any 
warning or advice given by Barclays. While I cant be entirely sure, I havent seen 
anything to suggest Mr and Mrs B wouldve ignored such advice  particularly as 
there wasnt any intervention relating to the £90,000 payment, which may have given 
an indication as how a conversation about the £25,000 might have gone. And so, 
having carefully thought about this, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
taken on board the advice of their bank and carried out additional checks if theyd 
been advised.
At this point, they wouldve become aware Mr K  and his firm  wasnt authorised 
and therefore unable to undertake regulated activities. This wouldve put Mr and 
Mrs B on notice that the investment opportunity wasnt legitimate. Because of this, I 
think its reasonable to assume Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have proceeded with making 
the £25,000 payment, or the two subsequent payments on 14 March 2018 totalling 
£12,500.  I therefore think Barclays couldve prevented Mr and Mrs Bs £37,500 loss 
occurring.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Bs role in what happened and whether they 
should bear any responsibility for their loss. Having done so, I dont think it would be 
fair here. This is because I wouldnt have expected Mr and Mrs B  as inexperienced 
investors without the direction of Barclays  to have known about the FCA register or 
that investment firms must be authorised to carry out regulated activities. And 
although they placed a lot of faith in Mr K by proceeding with his investment advice, I 
dont think that was wholly unreasonable  particularly given theyd built a 
relationship up through the prior property investment and through Mrs Bs experience 
when travelling to [the country of the investment property] with her friend. Because of 
this, while I think Mr and Mrs B couldve been more cautious, I dont think they were 
grossly negligent or negligent to an extent that it would be fair and reasonable to 
reduce the £37,500 award based on contributory negligence in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Ive considered whether interest should be applied to this award for Mr and Mrs Bs 
loss of use of the money. Although this investment wasnt the main reason for Mr and 
Mrs B releasing equity in their property, the £37,500 came from it. Its difficult to say 
with any certainty what Mr and Mrs B wouldve used this money for had they not 
invested it with Mr K. They have however explained that, prior to [Mr] K presenting 
the investment opportunity, they were considering using the money for property 
improvements  such as a new kitchen. But they were persuaded otherwise by Mr K as they said the investment would generate much greater returns than the value 
added to their property with a new kitchen. So, had the money not been invested with 
Mr K, I think its reasonable to assume Mr and Mrs B wouldve spent it on their 
property as theyve suggested. Because of this, I think a fair and pragmatic approach 
here would be for 8% simple interest to be paid (calculated from the date the 
payments were made to the date of settlement).
In addition to this, I think compensation is warranted for the trouble and upset Mr and 
Mrs B suffered through losing £37,500 to the scam. And so, I think Barclays should 
pay £250 to recognise that they couldve prevented it from happening along with the 
impact it had on Mr and Mrs B.
 
Mr and Mrs B accepted my proposal. 
Barclays didnt agree and, in short, they added:
Their understanding is that the Financial Ombudsman, when reviewing these types of 
complaints, considers the previous six months account activity to establish if the 
disputed activity is usual as per the customers previous account conduct.
The £90,000 transfer cannot be ignored. Therefore, to state the first payment of 
£25,000 was for significantly more than Mr and Mrs B typically spent is not a factual 
statement.
The £90,000 transfer was made just two days prior and, while they cannot find any 
checks were carried out, this payment became part of Mr and Mrs Bs usual spend. It 
therefore cannot be excluded without good reason. 
The £25,000 payment was for less than 30% of the previous largest payment and so, 
it wouldnt have been flagged as suspicious or unusual for the customers.
They disagree a conversation with Mr and Mrs B wouldve prompted them to not 
proceed with making the three transfers. Mr and Mrs had already invested £90,000 
and clearly had trust in Mr K, having met him on several occasions and received a 
return on previous investments. So, its reasonable to assume Mr and Mrs Bs 
behaviour wouldnt have changed regardless of what Barclays said to them. 
The transfers to Mr K werent concurrent and Mr and Mrs B had enough time to 
identify any issues or raise concerns. And Mr and Mrs B waited a further five months 
after making the first transfer before investing a further £12,500  which shows they 
remained convinced of their investment.  
Now that both parties have had the opportunity to respond, I can proceed with making my 
final decision. Before I do so, Id like to clarify that the £90,000 investment payment does not 
form part of this complaint. I will however refer to the payment within my decision as the 
circumstances related to it are directly relevant to the £37,500 I am considering. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly thought about the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code which can offer 
a potential means of obtaining a refund following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. 
But the CRM Code didnt come into effect until 28 May 2019 and doesnt apply retrospectively. This means, as the three payments Mr and Mrs B made were before this, 
theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether Barclays should 
reimburse Mr and Mrs B under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mr and Mrs B knowingly made the payments from their account. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B 
were tricked by Mr K as they thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. Nevertheless, 
Im satisfied the payments were authorised by Mr and Mrs B. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of their account, Barclays are expected to process 
the payments and Mr and Mrs B are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Barclays to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr and Mrs B to Barclays 
(either individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to their typical account activity.
Barclays argue that the £25,000 transfer wasnt unusual in relation to Mr and Mrs Bs typical 
account activity given theyd made a payment for £90,000 only two days prior. Therefore the 
£25,000 wasnt significantly more than Mr and Mrs B typically spent on their account, and so 
it wouldnt have been flagged as suspicious or unusual for the customers. 
Ive considered Barclays view on this but I disagree. As I explained to both parties, 
Mr and Mrs Bs account usage before the scam occurred was mostly low value infrequent 
spending. The only exception to this was the £90,000 payment made two days prior to the 
first payment to Mr K. But while I accept Mr and Mrs B had recently made a payment for 
significantly more than the £25,000 they were transferring to Mr K, this £90,000 payment 
was the only debit transaction that exceeded £300 in the prior 12 months. And Im not 
persuaded that a single high value transaction of £90,000 brought anything of a lower value 
into Mr and Mrs Bs typical account activity. I consider the £25,000 payment was out of 
character for Mr and Mrs B and not in line with how they typically used their account, with the 
funds being sent to a new payee (which can be an indicator for potential fraud as there isnt 
an established relationship). Because of this, I think there was sufficient reason for Barclays 
to think Mr and Mrs B were possibly at risk of financial harm from fraud.
It follows that I think Barclays ought to have questioned Mr and Mrs S about the £25,000 
payment before releasing it. Ive therefore given further consideration as to whether, had this 
happened, Mr and Mrs Bs loss couldve been prevented. Having done so, I remain of the 
view it couldve been prevented. Ill explain why. 
Barclays have highlighted that, given Mr and Mrs B had already invested £90,000, they 
clearly trusted Mr K. And so, they dont think a conversation wouldve deterred them from 
proceeding with the further investments. Theyve also referred to Mr and Mrs B already 
having received returns from the international property investment before making the scam 
payments. And that the five-month gap between the first and latter payments show 
Mr and Mrs B remained convinced of the investments offered to them. 
I accept there was a degree of trust between Mr and Mrs B and Mr K as otherwise, even 
without the intervention of Barclays, they wouldnt have proceeded with the investments. 
Banks are however familiar with investment scams and the tactics used by fraudsters. I 
therefore wouldve expected Barclays to have asked relevant and probing questions about the purpose of the payment. Ive no reason to think Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have been open 
or honest in answering the questions. And so, had Barclays appropriately questioned 
Mr and Mrs B, I think they wouldve become aware they hadnt received any official 
paperwork confirming the specific details of the investment Mr K had offered. The £25,000 
payment was also being sent to Mr Ks personal bank account. This ought to have been a 
red flag to Barclays and it wouldve been reasonable for them to have asked Mr and Mrs B 
whether theyd checked Mr K, and his firm, on the FCA register - which they hadnt. 
Considering this, and the sums involved, I think Barclays wouldve had sufficient reason to 
think Mr and Mrs B were at risk of being scammed. So, I think they shouldve advised 
Mr and Mrs B of their concerns and encouraged them to carry out additional checks  
including checking the FCA register  before proceeding with the investment. While I cant 
be entirely sure, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B wouldve taken Barclays 
warning and advice on board  particularly if the risk of the investment not having the 
relevant regulatory protection had been emphasised. This wouldve led to them becoming 
aware neither Mr K nor his firm were authorised to undertake regulated activities. And upon 
becoming aware of this, I remain of the view the scam wouldve been exposed and that 
Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have proceeded with making the £25,000 payment, or the two 
subsequent payments on 14 March 2018 totalling £12,500. I therefore think Barclays 
couldve prevented Mr and Mrs Bs £37,500 loss occurring
Further to this, Id add that although Mr and Mrs B did receive returns from the international 
property investment, this was only received after the £25,000 payment. I also see no reason, 
in the absence of any warning or advice being given by Barclays, why Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve had reason to question the legitimacy of the investment opportunity during the five-
month period before the final £12,500 was sent to Mr K. 
Ive given further thought as to whether Mr and Mrs B should bear some responsibility by 
way of contributory negligence. Having done so, I dont think that would be fair here. This is 
because I consider Mr and Mrs B were victims of a sophisticated scammer who gained their 
trust after scamming their friend. And I dont think Mr and Mrs B acted in a way that could 
reasonably be considered to be negligent, thereby warranting a reduction in the award.   
Ive not been presented anything in response to the interest I proposed for loss of use of 
money or the compensation for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B suffered. I therefore see 
no reason to depart from my initial thoughts. I therefore think Barclays should apply 8% 
simple interest on the refunded payments (calculated from the date the payments were 
made to the date of settlement), and pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund Mr and Mrs B the £37,500.
Pay 8% simple interest calculated from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman