DRN-3965707
The complaint
H, a limited company complains that TSB Bank plc failed to promptly take steps to recover a 
duplicate payment that it made by mistake.
Mr A, a director of limited company H, brings this complaint on Hs behalf.  
What happened
H banks with TSB and realised that it had sent the same payment twice to another party. In 
early November 2022, H contacted TSB about the duplicate payment and was told it could 
take up to 20 days for the payment to be recredited to Hs account. After not hearing 
anything by early December 2022, H contacted TSB. There was a further delay before H 
complained to TSB to be told that H should expect an outcome within 20 days. 
Mr H wanted TSB to credit the duplicate payment to Hs account and pay compensation for 
the time wasted chasing the repayment.
During the review of Hs complaint, H received the refund and TSB offered £50 
compensation. Mr H didnt consider this was enough so asked the investigator to proceed 
with his review.
The investigator agreed that TSB shouldve acted sooner to recover the funds in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. He thought TSB should pay an additional £100 to 
reflect the inconvenience to H.
TSB disagrees with the investigation outcome. It says it did offer to cover Hs expenses if it 
provided evidence of them. TSB points out that H always had sufficient funds in its account 
to cover the payment. 
As TSB didnt agree with the investigation outcome, the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Hs complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I dont think theres any dispute that TSB delayed in dealing with Hs repayment request. So, 
my decision focusses on the impact of that delay and whether TSB should put things right in 
line with the investigators recommendation.
I take TSBs point that it offered to cover Hs expenses if it sent evidence of these. I also 
accept that H had enough money in the account to cover the duplicate payment so didnt 
suffer financially because it couldnt pay another supplier for example. But this doesnt mean 
I cant make an award to reflect the inconvenience caused to H when Mr H, as the sole 
director, had to chase TSB and repeatedly contact the party it had overpaid  which I 
assume diverted time away from running the business of H. 
I agree that the investigators suggestion of a compensation award totalling £150 for the 
inconvenience caused is fair. Its within the range of an award we might make where the 
mistake has taken a reasonable amount of effort to resolve. Our approach to awards like this 
is on our website. 
Putting things right
To put things right TSB should pay H a total of £150 compensation. For the avoidance of 
doubt, this includes the £50 offered by TSB. 
Mr H says that TSB has already paid £50 into Hs account. If this is correct and H accepts 
my final decision, TSB will need to pay H a further £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require TSB 
Bank plc to pay H a total of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman