DRN-3634807
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Wise Payments Limited (Wise).
What happened
Mr T contacted Wise ahead of a large transfer he wanted to make to his Euro account. This 
was over a period of around two weeks in July and August 2021. He asked various 
questions about how the transfer would take place, including how he could secure a 
favourable exchange rate and what documents he would need to provide for verification 
checks. Mr T was told the exchange rate would be secured for 24 hours once Wise had 
received his funds. 
Mr T then started the transfer process. However, it became clear that the rate he thought 
hed secured was no longer guaranteed. Mr T then contacted Wise to ask about this. He 
says he received unclear information and a promised returned call from the large payments 
team which never came. 
Mr T said he had to cancel his plans and monitor the exchange rates for the rest of the day 
which he said was a waste of his time. He said he had to take a risk and proceed with a 
transfer before Wise got back to him. Mr T ended up splitting the transfers into two smaller 
amounts  of £100,000 and £115,020  and was able to secure more favourable rates later 
that day, but he said this was due to luck and the fact that he was monitoring the rates. He 
points out that the rate could have just as easily become less favourable. Mr T was also 
unhappy that he was asked to provide more supporting documentation to confirm the source 
of the funds than he says he was led to believe hed need.
Mr T complained to Wise. He also pointed out that he was eligible for a fee discount in 
August 2021 due to the volume of transfers completed, but this hadnt been paid. And, was 
also unhappy that an adviser he spoke with on the webchat function kept repeating the same 
things in answer to Mr Ts questions, when Mr T was saying he didnt understand. Mr T 
thinks he should have either explained things differently or passed matters on to another 
adviser.
Wise reviewed matters. In summary, it provided an explanation of how the fee discount is 
applied and didnt think an error was made. It also noted that Mr T had managed to secure a 
more favourable rate later despite what had happened. But it still acknowledged it could 
have provided him with clearer information about the guaranteed rate period. So, it offered 
Mr T £100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said he didnt think the 
compensation was proportionate to the stress of the matter, particularly as the transfers 
were for the purchase of a house. One of our investigators reviewed matters and, whilst he 
agreed that Wise could have provided better service, he thought the £100 offer was enough 
to put matters right. He also noted that Mr T had secured a more favourable rate in the end. 
And, he thought any fee discounts had been correctly applied to Mr Ts transfers.
Wise didnt dispute out investigators findings, but Mr T did and mostly repeated his earlier 
points. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reference, Mr T has two complaints with this service about Wise. Many of the issues 
overlap. However, this decision will only address his complaint related to events of July and 
August 2021 and the issues that I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of that. 
However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made to date, in relation 
to this complaint.
Mr T was in contact with Wise for two weeks over July and August asking questions related 
to his large transfer. He was told that the guaranteed rate would be secured for 24 hours 
once the funds had been received. Wise has since that because Mr T was attempting to 
transfer funds from his Wise balance, the funds were immediately available and there was 
therefore no need for additional time to allow funds to be deposited. Therefore, the rate 
expired after 30 minutes.
Its not in dispute that Mr T was given unclear information about the guaranteed rates and its 
unfortunate that he lost the rate he thought hed secured. He says that he was then left with 
no option but to monitor the rates over the coming hours. Im glad to see that 
Mr T managed to secure more favourable rates later that day. So, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that he has lost out financially here. However, I acknowledge the matter would 
have been stressful for him. Ill consider this in more detail later in the decision.
Mr T also says that he was given incorrect information about the supporting documents he 
needed to provide for verification checks. Mr T said that he was later asked to provide other 
documents that hadnt been made clear to him on the call. He outlined the stress and further 
delay this caused.
Ive listened to the call Mr T had about this matter. The adviser explained that Mr T would 
likely need to confirm the source of his funds. I dont think this was unreasonable, given the 
large amount Mr T was planning to transfer. And, whilst the adviser did say the information 
Mr T was proposing to provide should be enough, she also said she couldnt guarantee this, 
given that she couldnt predict exactly what information would be needed ahead of the 
transfer taking place. I acknowledge that at the end of the call, Mr T confirmed what he 
understood would be needed, and the adviser agreed. I do think she couldve reiterated that 
she couldnt say for certain here. However, I do think this had been made clear to Mr T 
earlier in the call more than once.
I acknowledge Mr T wanted to know exactly what information would be asked of him prior to 
the transfer, to speed matters up. However, I dont think its unreasonable that Wise isnt 
able to disclose exactly what verification information would be required ahead of a transfer 
taking place, given that the funds hadnt yet arrived. And, as I understand it, Wise processed 
the transfer within hours of Mr T providing the required documents, and well within their 
service level agreement.
Mr T complained about the service received by an adviser on the webchat function. He said 
he asked specific questions, but the adviser kept repeating the same things, despite it being 
clear that Mr T didnt understand. Wise has acknowledged that the service provided here 
could have been better. And, having reviewed the webchat notes, whilst I think the adviser was trying to support Mr T, I agree that he did confuse matters somewhat. So, I think its 
right that Wise pay him some compensation for its service.
Overall, Wise has acknowledged it could have provided clearer information during the 
process and has offered Mr T £100 compensation to put matters rights. I appreciate Mr T 
doesnt think this is proportionate to the stress he was caused and has also pointed out that 
the errors caused could have had an impact on the house purchase. However, Ive not been 
provided with anything to suggest that this actually happened.
As mentioned, Mr T managed to secure a more favourable rate later in the day. So, having 
thought carefully about the circumstances, I think the £100 compensation Wise has offered 
is enough to recognise the stress Mr T was caused as a result of the overall service 
received.
As I understand it, Mr T doesnt think that the fee discount was correctly applied in 
August 2021. Customers get a 0.1% discount on the arrangement fee they pay if they 
complete transfers in excess of £100,000 in a calendar month. Mr T split his transfer into two 
smaller ones of £100,000 and £115,020. However, the first transfer wasnt in excess of 
£100,000, so wasnt eligible for the discount. And, Wise explained that by the time the 
second transfer had been set up, the first hadnt yet completed. Given that the discount only 
applies when transfers are completed, it would appear that Mr T wasnt eligible for a fee 
discount on the whole of the second transfer.
However, the second transfer as a standalone transfer was above £100,000. Therefore, as I 
understand it, Mr T wouldve been eligible for a discount on the proportion of this above 
£100,000. Having reviewed the information Ive been provided with, Im satisfied a discount 
was applied here. So, whilst I appreciate Mr T will have been disappointed to not receive 
more of a discount, Im not persuaded based on the information Ive seen that Wise made an 
error here. And, I can see that Wise set out its process to discounted fees in correspondence 
sent to Mr T the month before these transfers were completed.
Mr T has made reference to other months he thinks he was eligible for a discount. His 
concerns about the activities that took place in June 2021 have been addressed in a 
separate decision with this service. Any concerns outside of that have not yet been 
considered by Wise. So, Mr T will need to raise any additional concerns separately with 
Wise and if he remains unhappy with its response, he can bring his concerns to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Wise Payments Limited to pay Mr T the 
£100 it offered for the inconvenience this matter has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman