DRN-4272746
The complaint
Ms K has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc has declined a claim she 
made under a household warranty policy. Ms K wants D &G to arrange for her fridge freezer 
to be repaired or replaced.
What happened
In February 2023 Ms K made a claim for a fridge freezer which she stores in her garage. 
She said contents in the fridge were freezing. 
D&G said that because the fridge freezer wasnt kept inside the home, as it was designed to, 
it wont meet her claim for repair or replacement. 
Our Investigator didnt think D & G had acted unreasonably and so didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ms K disagreed. In summary she says that the manufacturer told her the fridge freezer can 
be kept in a garage. The fridge is freezing contents in May 2023 when the temperature was 
warmer - so she believes the fridge freezer has a fault that isnt related to where it is being 
stored. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The manual for the make and model of Ms Ks appliance says the following:
This appliance is equipped with 'Freezer Guard' which ensures that at the advised 
setting [4 - four on the control] the frozen food in the freezer will not defrost even if 
the ambient temperature falls as low as -15 C. So you may then install your 
appliance in a garage or an unheated room without having to worry about frozen food 
in the freezer being spoilt.
However at low ambient (otherwise known as room temperature - my insertion here) 
temperatures mentioned above, fridge contents are likely to freeze, so check and 
consume food in the fridge accordingly. When the ambient temperature returns to 
normal, you may change the setting to suit your needs.
Ive also read the online extract provided by Ms K from the manufacturer which says that the 
make and model of her fridge is suitable for use in outbuildings or garages. 
Ms K says that because the fridge was freezing contents while being stored in the garage in 
May 2023, this shows there was a fault with the fridge and it wasnt related to the 
temperature of the garage. She says the garage is an integral garage, so it isnt the same as 
being outdoors, which is how D&G described it when replying to her complaint. 
Ive listened to a call recording of a discussion between D&G and the manufacturer. D&G 
provided the correct appliance number for Ms Ks fridge freezer at the start of this call. 
The manufacturer told D&G the appliance can be stored in a garage but there is a risk when 
temperatures drop that the appliance will over freeze inside. He explained that as long as the 
garage is at room temperature, it should be fine. But in winter time, if the garage is extremely 
cold, it will over freeze everything inside it. As an example, the manufacturer said if a 
customer said this had happened in January, they would advise the customer to bring the 
appliance inside. 
D&Gs engineer notes show that on visits in March and May 2023, they found the ambient 
temperature in the garage was too low - and asked Ms K to move the fridge freezer into the 
home. Ms K doesnt think this request is reasonable. She says the fridge freezer is faulty as 
the fridge is freezing water in warmer temperatures. 
My role is to look at whether D&G properly considered Ms Ks claim and acted reasonably in 
declining it. From the information provided, I think it did. Ms K says her garage was warmer 
in May 2023, but the fridge was still freezing contents inside it. Shes provided video 
evidence of this, which I accept. 
However, the engineer reported that the appliance wasnt at ambient temperature when they 
visited on both occasions in March and May 2023 - and offered a solution which Ms K 
doesnt agree with. The manufacturers manual explains that the contents can over freeze 
where the ambient temperature is too low. Where this happens, the manufacturer 
recommended in the call that the appliance is moved from a garage to inside. 
So from all of the information available, I cant say that D&G acted unreasonably in declining 
Ms Ks claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman