DRN-3641193
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that an approved repairer (AR) of Zurich Insurance PLC incorrectly 
said damage was caused to a courtesy car while in Mrs Ns possession when she made a 
claim under her car insurance policy. Mrs N is unhappy that the AR wants Mrs N to pay the 
costs to repair the damage. 
What happened
Mrs N made a claim to her insurer Zurich. While her car was being repaired Mrs N was 
provided with a courtesy car by the AR. 
An agent of the AR collected the courtesy car from Mrs N when the repairs were completed 
to her car. Later that day the AR called Mrs N to report damage it said it discovered after 
cleaning the courtesy car. The AR said the damage couldnt be seen on collection because 
there was dirt covering it. 
Mrs N says the agent didnt mention the dirt - or that there were any concerns - when they 
picked up the courtesy car. Mrs N was unhappy as she said her husband - who was there 
when the car was collected - wasnt asked to sign anything to agree as to the condition of 
the car. Mrs N believes its possible the damage occurred after the courtesy car was 
collected. 
Mrs N complained to Zurich. Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. So Mrs N asked us to look 
at things for her. 
Our Investigator looked at photos of the car: before it was delivered to Mrs N- when it was 
collected before being cleaned - and after it had been cleaned. The timeline from the AR 
showed that they had identified the damage within an hour of the car being collected by the 
agent- and was in the area of the car where the dirt had been identified on collection. 
So the Investigator thought that on balance it was more likely than not that the damage had 
occurred while the car was in Mrs Ns possession. He therefore thought the decision to ask 
Mrs N to pay for the damage to be repaired was reasonable. 
Mrs N didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. She says the agent never 
mentioned to her husband that the car was dirty. If they had, Mrs N says they would have 
cleaned it. She says our decision should be based on fact. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the costs to repair the damage being claimed for by the AR was below the excess 
payable under Mrs Ns car insurance policy with Zurich, so Zurich said it didnt deal with the 
claim. 
The information provided by the AR shows that within an hour of the courtesy car being 
collected, it took timed photos of the car. These photos were provided to Mr N by email by 
the AR on the same afternoon. Mrs N said she was contacted by the AR by phone on the 
same day. According to Zurichs records, Mrs N advised it the AR called her about half an 
hour after the courtesy car had been picked up to say it discovered the damage after 
cleaning the car. 
Ive looked at the photo of the car taken on the day it was delivered. It doesnt show any 
damage in the area being claimed for. Photos of the car on the day it was collected show dirt 
in the area which - after being cleaned - shows damage. 
Due to the pandemic, the AR explained that it didnt ask customers to sign an indemnity 
sheet but discuss the details with the customer. A copy of the job sheet shows the date and 
time of collection with the agents signature and Covid 19 written next to it. The AR referred 
to section 9 of its Terms and Conditions which says:
The courtesy vehicle must be returned to us in a clean condition, inside and out.
Mrs N says the collecting agent didnt indicate there was any issue after he inspected the car 
on collection. 
I understand Mrs N is unhappy with the outcome. But taking everything into account, I think 
on the balance of probabilities the damage occurred while the courtesy car was in Mrs Ns 
possession. I think its much more unlikely that the damage occurred during the onward 
journey of around 25 minutes to the ARs address. And as the area of damage was obscured 
by dirt when the courtesy car was picked up, I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
damage not to have been identified before the car was cleaned. 
So I dont think Zurich acting unfairly in deciding not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman