DRN-1678133
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined their claim for 
damage from an escape of water at their home. They want AXA to pay the claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out home insurance with AXA in April 2019. Mrs E contacted AXA on 2 
July 2019 to report signs of dampness from an escape of water. She said this was traced by 
their plumber to a leaking pipe underneath the kitchen floor. She said the kitchen floor and 
kitchen units had been damaged by water.
AXA declined the claim as it said Mr and Mrs E should have smelt and noticed the damage 
well before they claimed. Mrs E said she called as soon as she noticed and would have 
claimed under their previous policy had she known about the damage before as the excess 
payment on that policy was less than AXAs. AXA sent a surveyor at Mrs Es request and he 
reported extensive damage which he said could have been ongoing for over a year.
The surveyor said the entire ground floor of Mr and Mrs Es home required extensive drying 
and stripping, with replacement of kitchen units and refitting of appliances and the sink. He 
said a new floor would need to be fitted, with all skirting and door linings replaced. He said 
plaster would need to be taken off the walls up to one metre and re-plastered and decorated.
Mrs E said AXA called her on 15 July to say it would now cover their claim if she sent in her 
plumbers report. But she said she received a call the next day that AXA wouldnt cover the 
claim because they hadnt maintained their home. 
AXA said it declined Mr and Mrs Es claim as they hadnt mitigated the damage by reporting 
it earlier and it was clear the damage started well before the policy. AXA said an identical 
claim was recorded before the policy started. It said a claim cannot be recorded twice for the 
same incident. AXA paid Mr and Mrs E £50 compensation for changing its decision. Mr and 
Mrs E were unhappy with this outcome and brought their complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said the surveyors 
report and photos showed that the escape of water had been ongoing for a long time 
including when Mr and Mrs E changed their policy to AXA three months before they claimed. 
He said it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim under the terms of the policy. 
Mrs E disagreed with the investigator. She said shed notified their previous insurer of a 
claim but only after the claim was made to AXA. She said the surveyor couldn't be specific 
about how long the leak had been ongoing, saying it was up to 12 months, meaning 
anywhere between 0-12 months. She said the surveyor had sided with the insurance 
company. Mrs E requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at the details and evidence of Mr and Mrs Es claim to see if AXA acted 
fairly in declining the claim.
AXA said Mr and Mrs E had made a previous claim for the water damage to their home, but 
Mrs E said this was after their claim to AXA and on AXAs advice. Im uncertain of when the 
other claim was made or what the outcome of that claim was. But I dont think it alters my 
decision which is based on the evidence and nature of Mr and Mrs Es claim and the terms 
of the policy.
Mr and Mrs Es policy states that claims for damage occurring gradually over time are 
excluded and the policy covers one-off events. It also states that the policyholder must report 
a claim as soon as they become aware and take actions to minimise ongoing damage to 
their home. Mr and Mrs Es policy states that AXA wont be responsible for damage that 
occurred before the policy started. 
The surveyor appointed by AXA reported on the damage to Mr and Mrs Es home. He said 
theres external damage, with moss and algae growth. The water has worked its way 
through the masonry. And in the kitchen, There is long term damage with blown wall 
plaster and rot and mould occurring. The plumber took the plinth off the unit which shows it 
is very wet underneath. He reported on the wall between the lounge and kitchen, There is 
damage to the party wall to the kitchen with rot and mould evident. And further, in the utility 
room, the wall plaster is very wet and the skirting boards are rotting. Plaster has blown in 
sections too. This has been long term damage which has likely been ongoing for over 12 
months.
The surveyor provided photos of the damage throughout the ground floor of Mr and Mrs Es 
house and also reported that there was extensive damage to the floor, walls and the kitchen 
units. He said that the damage had not just happened, but it had been due to an ongoing 
problem.
I think the surveyors report and the photos evidences extensive water-related damage to Mr 
and Mrs Es home. This includes areas of damp, mould and rot which would indicate that the 
damage has developed over a significant period of time. The surveyor has estimated that the 
damage has been ongoing for over 12 months. From this, I think it should have been 
obvious to Mr and Mrs E that there had been a problem developing for some time before 
they took out a new policy with AXA.
Insurers arent required to pay for damage that occurred before they accepted the risk for a 
property, and this is set out within the terms of Mr and Mrs Es policy. Mr and Mrs E made 
their claim to AXA only three months after the start of their policy and so I think it was 
reasonable and consistent with the terms of the policy for AXA to decline their claim. It may 
be possible for Mr and Mrs E to pursue their claim with their previous home insurer as it 
seems very likely the damage to their home occurred well before their policy started with 
AXA.
I think the £50 AXA paid Mr and Mrs E for its poor communication on 15 July 2019 is fair in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman