DRN-4446043
The complaint
Mr H complains TransUnion International UK Limited (TU) provided incorrect information to a 
prospective lender when he applied for finance.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements of my provisional decision below, and they form part of this 
final decision.
In January 2023 Mr H applied for an interest free loan, for a new boiler, with a company Ill 
refer to as N. Mr H says TU told N he didnt exist  but that isnt true as hes been on the 
Electoral Roll (ER), has bank accounts, credit cards and mobile phone contracts. Mr H says 
N used two different credit reference agencies (CRAs) and the other one was fine. But, 
because of TUs information N turned him down for the credit.
TU said they understood Mr H was unhappy because they held incorrect ER details, he 
wasnt able to register for his TU credit file online and had a declined credit application. They 
said theyd be happy to amend Mr Hs ER details if they were wrong once he provided 
sufficient evidence, and they didnt think theyd done anything wrong about Mr Hs online 
access. In respect of the turned down application, TU said they never offer opinions on 
someones creditworthiness, thats only a decision the lender can make.
Unhappy with this Mr H asked us to look into things, and made it clear the only issue he was 
concerned about was the information provided to N. So, Ive focused the rest of my decision 
on that.
Ultimately, our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H wasnt happy with that, as he 
felt he had clear evidence from N theyd made an error, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr H is unfortunately mixing up two separate issues  and as a 
consequence is placing blame on TU for an error I dont believe theyve made.
Mr Hs concerns are that N turned him down for credit because TU didnt provide them with 
any information.
To evidence this, hes provided screenshots of him not being able to access his credit file 
online. The most recent screenshot was provided on 16 October 2023 and says Sorry we 
havent been able to verify and validate your identity and cant provide your credit report.
And, Mr Hs evidence to prove N turned down his application because TU didnt provide 
anything to them is an email from N which has two sentences I consider to be most 
important:
Your feedback is really important to us and has highlighted a potential issue for us in 
receiving the correct data through TransUnion, and
A review of your application has now been completed taking into consideration the 
additional information you have kindly provided and I am happy to advise you that I have 
been able to override our original decision to an accept
Dealing with the messages Mr H is getting from TU first. This message is only about him 
getting access to his credit report online. He is failing TUs online verification processes  
this error message doesnt mean TU arent providing data to prospective lenders when 
theyre contacted about him. Unfortunately I think Mr H has misunderstood what the 
message hes receiving means. So, I dont think, for the purposes of Mr Hs complaint about 
TU not providing information to N, this shows TU have done anything wrong. If Mr H were to 
complain to TU about this issue specifically, then Id expect them to help him access his 
report online.
And, looking at the email from N, I dont think this shows TU have made an error either. The 
email from N is neutral and all it says is its highlighted an issue for N in receiving data from 
TU. This doesnt clearly or explicitly say TU arent providing data  it says N arent receiving 
data. To me, this could easily mean N have had an issue at their end of not receiving TUs 
data  rather than TU are saying Mr H doesnt exist as hes suggested.
So, bringing this all together I think these are two entirely separate issues. Mr H cant pass 
TUs online verification and for reasons unknown (because N havent said) they werent 
receiving the correct data from TU. I do appreciate the two issues seem linked, but I think its 
entirely coincidental Mr H couldnt get online, and N said there were some issues with them 
receiving data from TU about him.
Given that, I wont be awarding the £240 costs Mr H has claimed on the basis Im not 
satisfied TU have made an error.
Responses to my provisional decision
TU said they had nothing to add.
Mr H didnt accept my explanation. In summary he said its clear TU are supplying incorrect 
information which is either being ignored or not considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wanted to let Mr H know I have read and digested all of his comments  including that Im 
trying to protect TU by reaching the outcome I have.
Im sorry he feels that way, and I do understand why he feels so strongly TU have made 
errors which they should be held responsible for. My role is to reach an impartial decision, so 
I can assure Mr H my objective here isnt, in any way shape or form, to try and protect TU.Ultimately, in order for me to uphold this complaint against TU I need to be satisfied the 
evidence demonstrates theyve made an error. I know Mr H is certain they have, but I dont 
agree with him.
Going back to his evidence  on 16 October 2023 he provided us with a screenshot  the 
first bit of which says:
Sorry, we havent been able to verify and validate your identity and cant provide your credit 
report.
This is the bit Mr H has underlined as evidence TU are reporting incorrect information about 
him. But, it goes on to say:
Unfortunately, weve not been able to automatically verify and validate your identity. As your 
credit report contains such personal and important financial information we need to make 
sure that we only make it available to the right person.
The screenshot from TUs website goes on to explain they make updates regularly, so Mr H 
can try again later on. It also says if Mr H couldnt get his credit report online, then he can 
apply for a paper copy. 
This is the same screen everyone would see if they failed TUs online verification processes. 
This information is not saying TU dont hold anything for him  it only says they cant let him 
have access to the information they do hold for him because they couldnt verify him. This 
screenshot is not saying they cant let anyone have access to any data they hold for him.
And the ability to verify him, and the ability to provide data when contacted by a prospective 
lender, are two entirely separate processes. This is why I say to Mr H I dont think I can be 
satisfied his  being turned down for credit has, to date, been proven by what hes provided to 
our service from N.
Ive copied out the relevant bits from Ns email above, so I wont repeat them here. But, the 
email from N doesnt say TU were at fault. I agree with Mr H, N didnt get TUs data so there 
was a problem somewhere  but the email from N doesnt say why they didnt get the data 
from TU. As I said before, this could just as easily be a problem at Ns end, rather than TUs 
end.
I did arrange for our Investigator to ask Mr H what other evidence he had or could provide 
from N to prove what he was saying. The only email he provided was something to show his 
order with them had been cancelled. While this supports what hes told us in terms of not 
being able to take up the credit, it doesnt provide any detail about why N turned down 
Mr Hs credit application in the first place.
Overall, this complaint is about TU making an error in not providing data to N for them to 
make a fair assessment of his credit application. And Ive seen no evidence that is the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jon PearceOmbudsman