DRN-2506142
The complaint
  Mrs T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc failed to make her aware of unusual 
transactions on her credit card account. 
What happened
 Between 3 October 2019 and 11 October 2019, Mrs Ts son made a total of 156 purchases 
through a music app linked to Mrs Ts credit card account.
Capital One didnt contact Mrs T until 11 October 2019, by which time a further 135 
purchases had been made.
Mrs T disputed the transactions. Capital One said it couldnt process a chargeback because 
the merchant hadnt done anything wrong. It said that Mrs Ts card was registered with the 
merchant and that she had entered into transactions with the merchant before. 
Mrs T remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She feels that Capital 
One shouldve identified the unusual activity and contacted her sooner than it did. She says 
she shouldnt be held liable for the transactions because they were carried out by her young 
son who didnt understand that by downloading music, he was spending real money. Mrs T 
says that Capital One shouldve noticed that the transactions were out of character for her 
account because her previous transactions with the music app had been minimal.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think that Mrs T had authorised the 
transactions and said the number of transactions in such a short period of time should have 
alerted Capital One to the fact that something was wrong. The investigator said that although 
Capital One had identified the activity as suspicious and contacted Mrs T, it shouldve made 
contact much sooner. She recommended that Capital One refund the disputed transactions.
Capital One didnt say that it disagreed with the view, but it queried the date from which 
transactions should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive had regard to the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that a payment from 
someones account can only be authorised if the payer has given consent. Ive thought about 
whether Mrs T can be said to have authorised the transactions, and whether she consented 
to the payments. 
Capital One has provided evidence to show that Mrs Ts card details were used to authorise 
the payments. But theres nothing to suggest that Mrs T gave her son authority to carry out 
the transactions on her behalf. In this case, Mrs Ts son has accessed a password without 
permission, and Mrs T wasnt aware of the transactions made on the account. In these 
circumstances, Im not satisfied that Mrs T authorised the transactions, because she didnt 
give consent, and she tried to put safeguards in place by not saving the password on her 
device and by storing the password in a separate place which she thought was safe.
Ive also had regard to the BSI PAS Code of Practice. Capital One hasnt signed up to the 
code, but it brings together rules which are considered to be good industry practice, so Id 
expect Capital One to follow the spirit of the code. The code is designed to protect 
customers from fraud or financial abuse. There are two particularly relevant things to look at 
with relation to Mrs Ts case. These are the changes in the way Mrs Ts account was being 
operated and the sudden increase in spending with the merchant.
Capital One has said that Mrs T had entered into transactions with the merchant before. I 
can see from the statements that this is correct, but not to the extent of the multiple 
transactions which form the subject of this complaint. I think the number of transactions 
made in such a short space of time ought to have alerted Capital One. I can see that Capital 
One did make contact with Mrs T on 11 October 2019 but by this time there had been 
multiple transactions over the preceding 8 days. I think Capital One should have contacted 
Mrs T much sooner. If it had, she wouldve been able to stop the transactions and minimise 
her loss. 
Taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im of the view that Capital One 
couldve done more.
Putting things right
To put things right Capital One should refund the disputed transactions. It should also refund 
any interest which has accrued on the disputed amount and remove any adverse information 
from Mrs Ts credit file.  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc must:
Refund the disputed transactions between 3 October 2019 and 11 October 2019
Refund any interest charged on the disputed transactions
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ts credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman