DRN-3701971
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont reimburse payments sent from his 
account which he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
On 20 January 2022, Mr W contacted Monzo through its in-app chat about an active 
card check transaction on his account which he didnt recognise. Although no money 
was taken, the agent thought it was possible that his card details had been 
compromised. They blocked Mr Ws card and explained how he could order a 
replacement. Included in the agents response was a warning that Mr W could be 
targeted by fraudsters asking him to move money under the guise of keeping it safe.
On 21 January 2022, Mr W received a call from an unknown number from someone 
purporting to be from Monzos fraud investigations team. They said theyd called in 
relation to suspicious activity on his account and asked if hed received any strange 
calls or emails. Mr W said he hadnt. The caller then told him that his replacement 
card was on its way, and hed receive another call to set up new security measures 
for his account and new card.
On 22 January 2022, Mr Ws new card arrived. He also received another call from an 
unknown number from someone purporting to be from Monzos fraud investigations 
team. The caller said the security measures on Mr Ws app needed updating they 
tried setting up Apple Pay. When that didnt work, they set up Google Pay and Mr W 
received a notification about that. Mr W says he believed at the time that Google Pay 
was being set up on his device. 
The caller then told Mr W his savings pots had been compromised. Panicked, he 
followed the callers instructions in moving the funds to his main account and 
uninstalling the Monzo app to allow them to upload new security measures. Mr W 
states the caller then said theyd place him on hold while they worked on his account. 
It was then that he felt something wasnt right. He hung up after the caller didnt come 
off hold. When he re-installed the Monzo app, Mr W realised that money had been 
stolen from his account  six transactions totalling £7,206 were made in a retail store 
using Google Pay. 
Mr W reported the matter to Monzo immediately. It declined to provide a refund and 
said he didnt take enough steps to keep his security details safe. Our investigator 
didnt agree with Monzos findings and asked it to refund Mr W in full along with 
interest. Mr W accepted the investigators assessment, but Monzo didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr W isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. 
It is important to note that what Monzo has said in its final response to Mr W  that 
under current regulations, banks have to refund fraudulent transactions unless a 
customer hasnt taken reasonable measures to keep their account safe  is different 
to what the PSRs state. 
Its accepted by the parties that the disputed payments werent authorised by Mr W. It 
hasnt been suggested that Mr W failed with intent, and I agree as I dont think he 
failed with intent to keep his security details safe. His actions were that of someone 
who was intending to protect their money from being stolen.
Mr W could still be held liable for payments he didnt authorise if he failed with gross 
negligence to keep his security details safe. Monzo states that it gave Mr W a very 
specific warning in that he could be targeted by fraudsters pretending to be from his 
bank, as well as what to watch out for and the actions to take if something like that 
did happen. It argues that his response confirmed that hed read and understood the 
message containing the warning. And so, by ignoring it and following the callers 
instructions, Mr W acted with gross negligence. 
I contacted Mr W and asked him about the warning, as well as his Ok response to 
it. He said he didnt know if he saw the warning; at the time he was distracted and 
feeling vulnerable due to being both shocked and upset by the unrecognised active 
card check. 
I cant say for certain whether Mr W read Monzos warning. But disputes like this one 
are only ever decided on the balance of probabilities. In other words, whats more 
likely than not to have happened. Having carefully considered the submissions from 
both parties, I think its more likely than not that Mr W didnt read the warning. 
I recognise that Monzo received an acknowledgement from him. But the warning was 
sent as part, and at the end, of a larger message which hed responded to. Under the 
circumstances, I dont think Mr Ws response can fairly be taken as confirmation that 
he read and understood the warning  and that he chose to ignore it  as Monzo 
asserts.
 
I acknowledge that it was careless of Mr W not to have properly read Monzos 
message containing the warning. But I dont think his failure to do so means his 
subsequent actions, and the context in which the information was shared, amount to 
failing with gross negligence to keep his security details safe. The scammer 
purported to be from Mr Ws trusted bank and was already aware of suspicious 
activity on his account, as well as the fact that a new debit card was on its way to 
him. Mr W genuinely believed that hed been contacted by Monzo both times and that 
it was taking steps to safeguard his money.
As Mr W was then satisfied that he was communicating with his bank, I cant fairly 
say that it was unreasonable that he complied with its request to provide certain 
personal information that was requested, including a verification code for setting up 
Google Pay. I think that many people would have followed the instructions and complied with what they were being asked. Especially in the context of (in their mind) 
protecting their money from fraudsters. Indeed, weve seen many others who have 
acted in the same way that Mr W did. 
Monzo has questioned why Mr W thought setting up Google Pay was a verification 
step and an essential process in securing the account. And why it had to be done 
there and then. Mr W has clarified to our service that it wasnt that he was complying 
with a verification step, rather it was his understanding that the caller was setting up 
Google Pay on his device following an update to security settings. Monzo raises a 
good point about why this needed to be done at that very moment. But its easy to be 
critical about what someone should have done with the benefit of hindsight. Mr W 
was acting in the moment  when he trusted the caller. I dont think he was 
significantly careless for not questioning the caller.
Overall, I dont think that Mr Ws actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
would have done in the same circumstances such that I think they amount to a 
serious disregard for an obvious risk. In other words, gross negligence. This means 
that Mr W isnt liable for the transactions in dispute and Monzo needs to put things 
right for him.
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse Mr W the unauthorised transactions totalling £7,206; and
pay 8% simple interest per year on each refunded transaction, calculated from the 
date of each transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman