DRN-3845797
The complaint
Mr M complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) incorrectly 
placed his loan funds into a joint account rather than his sole account. He is also unhappy 
Virgin Money began taking repayments from the joint account without permission.
What happened
Mr M took out a personal loan in March 2022 to purchase a vehicle. He asked for the loan 
funds to be placed into a sole account. He didnt want to tell his wife about the loan because 
of her health condition which can be affected by stress. However, in error Virgin Money 
placed the loan funds to a joint account Mr M held with his wife and she therefore found out 
about the loan. 
Mr M is also unhappy that Virgin Money took the loan repayments from the joint account 
without any prior discussion. He also said he wasnt sure which account would be debited 
and he was unable to make financial provision to cover the payment. 
Virgin Money acknowledged its mistakes, as well as there had been delays in handling the 
complaint, and that theyd accidently phoned Mr Ms wife during the complaint handling 
process. They apologised and in total paid £275 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
theyd caused overall to Mr M. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said Virgin Money should increase this offer to 
£500 (including payments already made). 
Virgin Money accepted this but Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mr M asked for the loan funds to be placed into his sole account and 
that Virgin Money made an error by crediting the funds to a joint account instead. Mr M has 
also said when his wife saw the credit in the joint account, he told her this was a banking 
error. However, Mr M says Virgin Money made a second mistake when they began taking 
the repayments out of the joint account, and this meant he had to explain to his wife the 
funds were from a loan which hed taken out. Mr M has said this caused a detrimental impact 
on his relationship with his wife.
Ive considered whether I think its fair and reasonable for Virgin Money to pay an additional 
£225 (bringing the total up to £500), and I think it is. I know Mr M will be disappointed by my 
decision, but Ive explained below why Ive reached this outcome. 
I have no doubt that this caused considerable damage to Mr Ms relationship with his wife. 
Although we cant compensate for the way Mr Ms wife felt, she has health concerns which 
are impacted by stress, and this has in turn had an impact on him. Mr M also said he had to 
live elsewhere for a period of time. So this has clearly been a difficult time. 
Virgin Money made a relatively minor administrative error in crediting the loan to the wrong 
account and I can only ask them to pay fair compensation for the inconvenience this would 
reasonably cause. Although Mr M has explained the huge repercussions this error had, I 
dont think Virgin Money could have reasonably foreseen any of the consequences that hes 
told us about in his complaint correspondence. So it follows that it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Virgin Money solely responsible for these issues. Because of this, I think Virgin Moneys 
offer of £225 for the distress and inconvenience they caused is fair and reasonable.
Mr M has said his wife wants him to sell the vehicle which has already depreciated by 
thousands of pounds. But I cant fairly hold Virgin Money responsible for this potential 
financial loss. This is because Virgin Money could not have reasonably foreseen this would 
be a consequence of them accidently crediting the wrong account. 
Mr M has said that the repayments were debited from his joint account without any 
authorisation. Although this wasnt what had been agreed prior to the loan, Virgin Money had 
made an error with the account details and as the funds were initially in his joint account, I 
dont find it surprising the repayments were debited from that account to begin with. 
Although Mr M says taking payments from the joint account was a second error made by 
Virgin Money, it appears to be a follow on from the original mistake. And for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I dont think Virgin Money could have reasonably foreseen the 
consequences caused of taking the loan repayments from the joint account.  
Mr M says he wasnt informed when the monthly repayment would be taken from the correct 
account and that he wasnt able to make financial provision to cover the payment. I can see 
that by July 2022 Virgin Money wrote to Mr M to explain the payments would be taken from 
the correct account. Virgin Money also said theyd consider any fees or charges Mr M 
incurred as a result of not having enough funds in his account when the loan repayment was 
taken, but Ive not seen any evidence to suggest there has been financial loss here.
It seems there have been some complaint handling issues. For example, Virgin Money 
accepted they accidently phoned Mr Ms wife in relation to the complaint. Theyve said they 
wouldnt have disclosed any personal data and Mr M hasnt said otherwise. It also seems 
that Mr Ms wife wouldve already been aware about the loan in any event. But I can 
understand why this would add to Mr Ms frustrations with Virgin Money.
Virgin Money have acknowledged the delay in looking into Mr Ms complaint. Mr M 
complained in March 2022 and it wasnt until July 2022 that a final response was issued, so 
it took approximately four months. Whilst I appreciate Mr M wouldve liked this to be dealt 
with quicker, unfortunately dealing with institutions such as banks can take some time and I 
dont think the delay on its own caused any material distress and inconvenience to Mr M 
such that it warrants any additional compensation.
To conclude, I think Virgin Money should pay Mr M a further £225 (bringing the total to £500) 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him. This should be paid to an account of 
Mr Ms choosing. I accept Mr M would like more compensation, but Im not persuaded, in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint, I can fairly and reasonably require Virgin Money to 
pay him more.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr M compensation of £225, to an 
account of his choosing.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman