DRN-1794112
The complaint
Ms M and Mr R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc added an endorsement to 
their home insurance policy without their knowledge.
What happened
In August 2015 RSA applied an endorsement to Ms M and Mr Rs home insurance policy. 
This endorsement took effect around nine months after Ms M and Mr R had purchased their 
policy. And the policy endorsement required them to have an intruder alarm installed at their 
home in order to be covered for theft.
In 2017 a security survey was carried out at Ms M and Mr Rs home. This confirmed that the 
security at their home was adequate based on the value of the items insured at that time. 
So, RSA decided to remove the endorsement that required Ms M and Mr R have an intruder 
alarm installed.
However, Ms M and Mr Rs policy documentation continued to show that the endorsement 
was in place until 13 June 2019, when new policy documents were issued by RSA showing it 
had removed the endorsement.
Ms M and Mr R complained to RSA about what had happened. They said RSA was aware 
their home didnt have an intruder alarm. And they were concerned they hadnt been 
covered for theft during the time the endorsement had been showing on their policy. They 
also thought RSA had acted unfairly in applying a significant midterm change to their policy, 
which had been without their knowledge and without notifying them properly that a change 
had been made.
When RSA investigated Ms M and Mr Rs concerns it acknowledged that the intruder alarm 
endorsement had ceased to apply in 2017. It accepted it should have been removed from 
policy documentation from that date onwards. And it conceded it had continued to appear 
afterwards in error. It explained that if Ms M and Mr R had needed to make a theft claim 
during the time the endorsement had ceased to apply it would have indemnified them. And, 
in recognition of the trouble and upset its error had caused, it sent them a cheque for £50.
Being dissatisfied with RSAs response to their complaint Ms M and Mr R referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into it and thought RSA had dealt with their complaint fairly. 
So they didnt recommend upholding it.
Overall our investigator agreed RSA hadnt made Ms M and Mr R aware of the midterm 
policy endorsement. But they declined to award compensation because they were satisfied 
our service would have told RSA to honour a theft claim if one had been made. They also 
thought the compensation RSA had offered to resolve Ms M and Mr Rs complaint about the 
policy endorsement not being removed when it should have been was fair and reasonable. 
But Ms M and Mr R didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. Im sorry to 
hear of the difficulties Ms M and Mr R experienced. And I appreciate theyll be disappointed 
by the outcome of their complaint. But I hope they can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake, or treated Ms M and Mr R unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right.  
I'll focus first on the endorsement RSA made to Ms M and Mr R's insurance midway through 
their policy. Having reviewed the evidence provided to our service by RSA and Ms M and Mr 
R Im persuaded not enough was done to communicate the endorsement in 2015. This 
change was applied midterm and it was significant when compared to the policy Ms M and 
Mr R had purchased around nine months previously. They said RSA knew they didnt have 
an intruder alarm fitted at their home. But, even if it hadnt known this, I think it would still 
have needed to draw their attention to the fact that an alarm was required in order to cover 
them for theft. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded RSA made Ms M and Mr R aware of the 
endorsement in the way wed expect it to. I can see the endorsement is referenced on page 
four of a six page document. But for a change so significant I;m not persuaded it was given 
appropriate prominence. And it could have easily been missed by a policyholder glancing 
over documentation theyd received midway through their policy. 
Ive carefully considered the impact this would have had on Ms M and Mr R had they been 
burgled. Its clear that, in those circumstances, theyd have needed to make a theft claim 
under their policy. And its likely RSA would have declined to indemnify that claim based on 
the endorsement it had applied. However, I also think its likely that Ms M and Mr R would 
have referred a complaint about that to our service  as theyve done now. 
Had Ms M and Mr R brought a complaint to our service on the basis that RSA had declined a 
claim for theft our service would have investigated whether it had acted fairly in refusing to 
cover their claim. 
We are a service that puts people back in the position theyd have occupied had the error or 
poor service not happened. So, in a case like this, wed have considered whether Ms M and 
Mr R had been properly made aware of a midterm policy endorsement. And, based on what 
Ive seen, wed have most likely concluded that RSA hadnt appropriately communicated that 
change with Ms M and Mr R. 
In those circumstances our services position is that, its most likely, wed have found that 
declining a claim would have been unfair. Wed have therefore told RSA to cover a theft 
claim. So, its unlikely Ms M and Mr R would have suffered any loss as theyd have had had 
the benefit of the cover theyd purchased. Im therefore not persuaded I need to consider 
making an award for financial loss or compensation for distress and inconvenience here. 
And theres no cause for me to ask RSA to refund the premiums Ms M and Mr R paid as 
theyd like.  
Ill turn now to the error RSA made in continuing to record the endorsement on Ms M and Mr 
Rs policy after 2017 when the endorsement no longer applied.RSA accepts it made an error in not removing the endorsement from Ms M and Mr Rs policy 
in 2017. But its told our service and Ms M and Mr R it would have indemnified them for any 
theft claim made after the date the endorsement ceased to apply. 
While it's clear from the policy documentation I've seen that RSA was still including the 
endorsement on documentation issued to Ms M and Mr R after 2017 Im satisfied they'd 
have been able to submit a claim in line with the terms of the policy they took out and paid 
for. Im therefore not persuaded theyd have suffered any financial loss here.
When considering non-financial loss our service looks at whether a business error has 
caused a consumer distress and convenience. We arent here to punish businesses and, to 
put things right, Id have asked RSA to pay an appropriate award of compensation to reflect 
the impact of the error it made. 
RSA has already offered Ms M and Mr R £50 compensation to recognise the trouble and 
upset they were caused by its error. I understand that, while it sent them a cheque in that 
sum, they discarded it. So, the cheque hasnt been cashed.
In considering whether RSAs offer was a fair and reasonable amount Ive taken everything 
Ms M and Mr R have said into account. I accept they were caused trouble and upset by what 
happened. But Im satisfied that the compensation already offered fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience they'd have been caused by RSAs error. I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. And Im persuaded the 
amount already offered is in line with our approach in similar scenarios  so I wont be 
ordering RSA to increase its offer. It should therefore pay Ms M and Mr R £50 to resolve 
their complaint.
I understand Ms M and Mr R feel very strongly about the issues raised in their complaint and 
Ive carefully considered everything theyve said. But for the reasons already outlined I think 
RSA has dealt with this complaint fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. I realise 
Ms M and Mr R will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve their dispute with RSA informally, can do for them.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I am aware that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc has made an offer to pay £50 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc should pay Ms M and Mr R £50 to resolve their complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman