DRN-2342067
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs W have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. They booked a family trip with intended departure and return dates of               
6 June 2020 and 13 June 2020 respectively. On 15 March 2020, the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ws 
intended destination country. That advice remained in place at the date of                      
Mr and Mrs Ws intended departure. 
Mr and Mrs W made a claim against their policy for unrecovered accommodation costs. 
AXA initially declined the claim, in error. It then agreed to pay one half of the claim. It 
said that Mr and Mrs Ws adult family members werent covered under the policy. AXA 
also offered compensation of £125 in relation to service issues. 
During the course of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint to this service, AXA offered additional 
compensation of £100 and, on production of evidence of payment of the accommodation 
costs, it offered to settle the claim in full, subject to the policy terms and conditions.      
Mr and Mrs W didnt think that was acceptable, so pursued their complaint. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA has now agreed to settle Mr and Mrs Ws claim for unrecovered accommodation 
costs. The remaining issue for me to decide is compensation for Mr and Mrs Ws 
distress and inconvenience. 
Its common ground that AXA initially declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim in error. It then 
paid the claim in part but then changed its position. So, there was confusion about its 
approach to the claim itself. In addition, there were delays in dealing with the claim. 
Whilst some of the delay may be attributable to the unprecedented demands arising 
out of the covid-19 pandemic, AXA accepts that it delayed in responding to             
Mr and Mrs Ws claim and that they received poor service. 
Considering everything, I think that AXAs offer to pay total compensation of £225 for 
Mr and Mrs Ws distress and inconvenience in this case is fair and reasonable. In 
reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature and extent of AXAs errors and 
the effect those errors had on Mr and Mrs W. Mr W says that compensation of 
£1,000 is appropriate. Having considered the matter carefully, theres no basis on 
which I could fairly direct AXA to pay compensation of that amount in this case. 
I  understand that AXA  has now received confirmation from Mr and Mrs Ws travel 
agent that Mr W made the payment to the accommodation provider, so its settled the 
claim. I dont think that AXA was at fault in seeking clarification about payment for the 
accommodation before settling the claim. One of the policy terms is that                  
Mr and Mrs W will provide AXA with relevant information. 
I appreciate that Mr W remains concerned about AXAs handling of the claim and its 
approach to claims generally. Whilst I can look at the detail of Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint, this service isnt the regulator and I cant comment generally about AXAs 
claim handling. I understand that Mr W may be disappointed by that, but I cant act 
outside my legal powers.  
 
For these reasons, I think that the offers AXA has already made are fair and reasonable in 
this case, so I dont require it to pay any more. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AXA should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation of £225 in relation 
to their distress and inconvenience, if it hasnt already done so, or pay the balance 
outstanding if its paid part of that amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offers AXA Insurance UK Plc have already made are fair and 
reasonable, so I dont direct it to pay any more. It should take the steps outlined above, if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman