DRN-2567599
The complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Marsh Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle.
What happened
Mr M is represented in this complaint by his wife. But for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr M tells us that in July 2019 he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as CF. He 
says he reported various faults which included a strong odour coming from the air-
conditioning, oil drips and a noise from the back of the vehicle. He explains that the vehicle 
went in for repairs in November 2019 and was returned to him in February 2020. Mr M states 
that further problems have occurred and the vehicle has been further inspected. And its now 
been declared to be a fire hazard due to an oil leak on to the exhaust.
MFL said that the vehicle had been inspected on two occasions by independent vehicle 
examiners Ill refer to as S. After the first inspection in November 2019 it said that S had 
identified a coolant leak. And that the brake pads were completely worn. It said it had 
arranged with the dealers to pay for the repair of the coolant leak. And half the cost of brake 
pads  as a gesture of goodwill  as brakes are a wear and tear item.  
MFL explained that the next complaint it received had been in May 2020 and referred to an 
oil leak. But due to Covid the inspection had not been carried out until August 2020. It said 
that S had identified an oil leak in its second inspection. But had concluded that this had 
developed since supply. And no coolant leak had been noted on this occasion.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
was insufficient information to show that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. He noted that it had covered an additional 16,000 miles and didnt think it wouldve 
been able to do this if the oil leak had been sufficient from the outset to make the vehicle 
unfit for purpose.
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr M has experienced issues with this vehicle. But as it was six years old with 
an odometer reading of about 89,000 miles when supplied, its more likely to develop 
problems than a newer vehicle.
Mr Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MFL supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of age, price, previous use and durability.
Ive seen two inspection reports from S which took place on 11 November 2019 and 27 
August 2020. Ive also viewed the vehicles MOT history. I note that the latest MOT test 
carried out on 12 July 2019 (just before it was supplied to Mr M) didnt contain any 
advisories. Although the three previous MOT tests had an advisory about an oil leak. This 
suggests that the previously identified leak may have been repaired by the time of the latest 
MOT. The odometer reading was recorded as 88,998 miles.
The November report found that the coolant level was well below the required level. It also 
found the rear brake pads were highly worn. It confirmed the presence of an unpleasant 
odour from the air-conditioning. And whilst it didnt specifically state that an oil leak was 
present at the time, it did observe deposits which it suggested were consistent with there 
having been an oil leak from the engine. That appears in line with the various MOT tests. 
The odometer reading recorded at the time of this inspection was 97,121 miles.
The second inspection found a large area of oil deposits under the engine. And confirmed 
that there was a leak. It said the vehicle had passed an MOT around the date of supply. And 
that it would have expected that if it had been present at that time the leak wouldve been 
subject of at least an advisory as it was dripping on to the exhaust. Or given the safety risk, it 
might even have meant there was a refusal to carry out the MOT test. The report also said 
that the odour from the air-conditioning was still present. And that this might be due to the 
coolant residues not having been fully cleaned when the vehicle was repaired earlier. No 
coolant leak was observed although it was commented that the low coolant levels were 
consistent with unusual coolant consumption by the engine.
Also attached to the second inspection report were details of repairs carried out to the 
vehicle. The notes dated 30 January 2020 indicated that rear brakes and discs had been 
replaced along with a calliper. And that the heater matrix had been found to be leaking and 
had been replaced.
It was also noted that the oil service warning was lit meaning that vehicle required an oil 
change. The odometer reading is recorded as 105,032 miles.
The inspection report concluded:
Although there is an underlying issue/s with the vehicle these are the result of the vehicles 
natural wear and tear through general usage, only developing into an issue that requires 
rectification after purchase.
Given the age and previous mileage of this vehicle at the time of supply to Mr M, its not 
surprising that it was showing signs of wear and tear. And the combined effect of the two 
reports from S is that various components had or were about to reach the end of their natural 
lifespan.
Not every fault means that a vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality. And I note that by the time S 
inspected the vehicle for the second time it had covered an additional 16,000 miles since 
supply. That indicates at least average use. Its not plausible to think the vehicle couldve 
achieved this if the latest oil leak had been present at the point of supply to the extent of 
rendering the vehicle unfit for purpose or not of satisfactory quality.That the vehicle is now unsafe is the result of a gradual deterioration of the sort that is 
eventually likely to affect all motor vehicles with this amount of previous use. And whilst its 
always to be hoped that such issues will occur later rather than sooner, its a risk that the 
consumer accepts when acquiring such a vehicle.
In summary, I find that MFL has acted fairly in the circumstances. It arranged for repairs for 
the coolant leak, the heater matrix and brakes. And its arranged for two independent 
inspections. The latter of which concluded that the vehicle is experiencing wear and tear 
issues associated with general usage. 
In my opinion, its not been shown that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman