DRN-3953351
The complaint
Mr R complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly turned 
down his pet insurance claim.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr Rs dog was chasing a ball when he suddenly yelped and stopped. 
The dog held his back leg off the ground and could not put weight on it. 
Mr Rs vet diagnosed a left cranial cruciate ligament rupture, which was repaired during 
surgery. Mr R made a claim to Casualty for the investigation and treatment costs. 
Casualty turned down Mr Rs claim. It said that the dog had a pre-existing condition, 
because he had signs and symptoms of lameness in 2020 and 2021, before Mr R had taken 
out the policy in early January 2022. It did not cover pre-existing conditions under its policy. 
Casualty said that if it had known about the dogs medical history of lameness it would have 
excluded claims for both the dogs stifles (knee joints) and related conditions from the 
policys start date.
Mr R did not agree and said that he had been unaware of the entries in his dogs medical 
history notes about isolated episodes of lameness. This is because he had mentioned 
isolated episodes to his vet during check-ups for other issues. He provided evidence from 
his usual vet and the specialist vet surgeon who both said the dogs cruciate rupture was not 
related to earlier episodes of lameness. 
Casualty referred to the detailed medical records including an entry which said that the usual 
vet suspected cruciate rupture based on the dogs clinical history. It still thought the dog had 
a pre-existing condition and so would not change its position. 
Mr R came to us. Our Investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He did not think 
Casualty had shown that the dogs condition was a pre-existing one. He recommended that 
Casualty should pay the claim, with interest and pay Mr R £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. Our Investigator also said that Casualty had not been entitled to apply a 
retrospective exclusion for the dogs stifles. 
Casualty did not agree and asked for an Ombudsman review as it is entitled to do. It referred 
again to entries in the dogs medical history that it said supported its decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint for the following reasons. 
Ive looked carefully at the policy to see if Casualty has acted fairly, reasonably and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions when declining Mr Rs claim. 
The policy excludes:
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
before Your policy Start Date 
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Casualty says that several entries in the dogs clinical history about the dogs lameness in 
2020 and 2021 are related to the cruciate ligament rupture. The lameness occurred before 
the policys start date in early 2022. Although there had not been a diagnosis in 2020 and 
2021 Casualty says the lameness were signs and symptoms of the later cruciate ligament 
rupture. As such, Casualty says it is a pre-existing condition. 
The entries to which Casualty has specifically referred say:
29 May 2020  the owner reported the dog was limping after walk. The vet advised 
rest and prescribed an anti-inflammatory medication. 
16 December 2020  owner reported occasional v short lived lameness on one of 
HLs [hind legs]  not lame today. 
29 June 2021 - limping on LH [left hind]  started this morning after run in park. 
4/10 lame LH, resist full ext [extension] of hip, nad [nothing abnormal discovered] 
joint swelling or crepitussuspect soft tissue injury
Mr R said that in December 2020 he had mentioned an isolated incident to his vet during his 
dogs annual check-up, which had happened several months previously when his dog 
jumped off a chair and stood still for about half an hour without moving. His dog had then 
started moving again without showing any ill-effects and seemed fine. As a responsible 
owner he mentioned this during the annual check-up and the vet examined his dogs legs, 
but they seemed fine which is why they thought it was a soft tissue/muscle pull that had 
cleared. 
In June 2021 his dog had had a brief incident of lameness, which he mentioned to the vet as 
this had happened on the same day as a follow up appointment for a skin condition. The vet 
again thought it was likely a soft tissue injury. 
I can see that there were no further investigations for the above episodes of lameness, and 
the May 2020 and December 2020 entries do not specify which leg/s were affected. As Mr R 
says the vets records show that the December 2020 entry was a routine health check and 
vaccination appointment. So I dont accept Casualtys suggestion that Mr R had taken his 
dog back to the vet after experiencing short lived lameness on one of his hind legs. 
The medical records also show that the June 2021 appointment was for the dogs skin 
condition, as Mr R says, and so again I dont agree with Casualty that Mr R took his dog to 
the vet for lameness. The vet suggested a soft tissue injury, which is supported by the fact 
there are no further notes about the injury during the two July 2021 follow up appointments 
about the skin condition. Casualty has also highlighted an entry on 3 September 2022, the day that Mr R had taken 
the dog to the vet because of his lameness following a walk. In that entry the dogs vet said 
that they were suspicious of cruciate from clinical history. But its not clear to me that 
Casualty properly reviewed the later evidence provided by the dogs usual vet and the 
specialist orthopaedic surgeon who treated the dog. 
The dogs usual vet said on 29 September 2022 that the dog required:
cruciate surgery for an acute rupture. This is separate from previous sporadic and 
short-lived bouts of lameness noted in his clinical notes over a year ago.
The specialist orthopaedic surgeon who operated on the dog included in his 11 October 
2022 report that:
The [left pelvic limb] lameness developed acutely post a period of uncontrolled 
activity three weeks prior to referralPrior to the recent lameness [the dog] enjoyed 
1-2 hours of activity daily without concern.
I understand that [the dog] exhibited a short lived period of pelvic limb lameness 
approximately 18 months ago. A soft tissue injury was considered to be the most 
likely aetiology and the lameness resolved post a short period of conservative 
management. The acute nature of the current lameness, and the relatively mild 
degenerative joint disease present leads me to conclude that it is unlikely that [the 
dogs] previous pelvic limb lameness is related to the current cranial cruciate 
ligament rupture. 
I find the above evidence to be persuasive. The vets both saw and treated Mr Rs dog before 
giving their professional opinions. Casualty says that the vet surgeon had not been present 
when the dog was examined in 2020 and 2021. Thats correct but importantly, the vet 
surgeon has clearly explained his reasons for concluding that it was unlikely the previous 
lameness as reported in the dogs medical records was related to the cruciate ligament; that 
is, because the cruciate injury was acute (something that had happened suddenly) and 
because there was relatively mild joint disease present. 
Casualty has said that the dogs earlier clinical history does not indicate that the lameness 
was related to the pelvis in any way - referring here to the surgeons comments about the 
dogs pelvic limb lameness. But the vet was not referring to the dogs pelvis. The pelvic 
limb is another name that vets give to the rear limb (or leg) of the dog. It is clear to me that 
the vet surgeon was discussing the dogs left rear limb lameness when he referred to the 
pelvic limb.
I dont think Casualty has shown that the dogs cruciate rupture was related to the signs of 
lameness that the dog experienced before the policy was taken out. As such, Casualty has 
not shown that it can fairly apply the pre-existing condition exclusion. I think the fair outcome 
is for Casualty to pay the claim, together with interest as set out below.
I also dont consider that Casualty was fairly entitled to place an exclusion for all claims with 
respect to both the dogs stifles and related conditions backdated to the policys start date. 
The relevant law is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). In line with CIDRA, I would usually consider it fair for an insurer to apply a 
retrospective exclusion if its policyholder didnt take reasonable care in answering its clear 
questions when they bought the policy and the insurer can show it would have added an 
exclusion had it been given the information. In this case I dont consider Casualty has shown that it asked Mr R a clear relevant question 
that would have enabled him to tell it about his dogs previous medical history. Instead, it 
says during the policy application it asked Mr R to read and tick a box to confirm that he read 
the assumptions and policy terms. 
I dont consider that an assumption is a clear question that would enable Mr R to tell 
Casualty about his dogs health. So I dont think Casualty has shown that Mr R failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. As a clear question was not asked it is not 
necessary for me to consider whether Casualty would have offered the policy on different 
terms. 
It follows that I dont consider Casualty was entitled to backdate the policy exclusion for 
claims with respect to both of the dogs stifles and related conditions to the policys start 
date. If applied and not removed Casualty must remove the exclusion, with effect from the 
policys start date. 
I think that Casualtys decision not to pay the claim has caused Mr R some distress and 
inconvenience. I think it should fairly pay him some compensation for that and I assess £100 
to be a reasonable amount. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date on which we send it Mr Rs acceptance of this final decision 
I require Casualty to:
Pay Mr Rs claim and continuation claim for the investigation and treatment of his 
dogs left cruciate rupture, subject to any applicable excess and policy limit; and 
Pay interest on the resulting claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date Mr R paid the vets fees until the date of settlement (subject to Mr R 
providing evidence to Casualty showing the date he paid the fees); and
Remove any retrospective policy exclusion that it applied with respect to claims for 
both the dogs stifles and resulting conditions from the policys start date; and 
Pay Mr R £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Casualty considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest payment, it should let Mr R know how much its taken off. If requested, it should 
also provide him with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so that he can reclaim it 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to take the steps set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman