DRN-3514827
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr S complain that Europ Assistance S.A (EA) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mrs D brought the complaint, Ive referred mainly to her throughout this decision.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Im not going to set 
them out in detail.
Briefly, Mrs D had booked a holiday and taken out travel insurance in January 2021. She 
required a letter from her local authority which gave permission for her to take a member of 
her family abroad. However, as Mrs Ds holiday destination was on the UK governments 
amber-list of countries, the local authority didnt consent to Mrs D taking her family member 
abroad. So she made a cancellation claim on her travel insurance policy for the costs of her 
cancelled flights.
EA turned down Mrs Ds claim. It said the circumstances of the claim simply werent covered 
by the policy terms.
Mrs D was unhappy with EAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Whilst she sympathised 
with Mrs Ds position, she didnt think the situation was covered by the cancellation section 
of the policy. And she also felt that the policy terms specifically excluded the circumstances 
of Mrs Ds claim.
Mrs D disagreed. In summary, she said shed paid for travel insurance to cover her for 
reasons beyond her control. She had had to decide between travelling without a member of 
her family or cancelling the holiday. And shed had no control over either the UK 
governments decision to class her destination country as an amber-list country or the local 
authoritys refusal to allow her family member to travel. She added that the policy terms 
didnt exclude her situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs D, I think it was fair for EA to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive taken into account, amongst other 
things, the terms of Mrs Ds policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether EA 
handled her claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs 
Ds contract with EA. As Mrs D wasnt able to travel as shed planned, I think it was 
reasonable for EA to assess her claim under Section A  Cancellation and Curtailment. This 
says that EA will pay a policyholders unused, irrecoverable cancellation costs if theyre 
unable to travel for one of the following, specific, listed reasons:
a. Death, Serious Injury or Serious Illness during the period of insurance of:
 You, or
 a person You are travelling with, or
 a Family Member, or
 a Close Business Associate who lives in Your Home Country, or
 a friend or Family Member who lives Abroad, with whom You were staying.
b. You, or the person You are travelling with:
 being required in Your Home Country for jury service or as a witness in a court of 
law, or
 being placed under compulsory quarantine, or
 being required to be present by the police, as a result of Your, or their home or 
usual place of business in Your Home Country suffering a burglary within seven days 
before the start of Your Trip
 suffering Accidental damage to Your, or their home that renders the home 
uninhabitable, within seven days before the start of Your Trip.
 being made Redundant, providing You qualify for Redundancy payment under 
current Redundancy legislation
 being posted overseas or receiving emergency requirements of duty in the Armed 
Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services.
Mrs Ds trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons Ive set out above. These were the listed 
insured events which EA had chosen to cover. No travel insurance policy covers every 
eventuality and EA was entitled to decide which cancellation risks it wanted to insure. I think 
its clearly set out these insured events in the contract. Id add too that in my experience, no 
travel insurance policy available on the market wouldve covered the situation Mrs D found 
herself in.
The cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of things which EA has chosen to 
specifically exclude from cover. Ive set out the exclusion I think is most relevant below:
What you are not covered for
Any claims arising directly, or indirectly from the cancellation or curtailment of travel 
arrangements, in any way caused by, or contributed to by any order or 
recommendation issued by a government, public or local authority. This includes, but 
is not limited to, orders or recommendations issued by any civil or federal aviation 
authority.
In this case, it seems to me that Mrs Ds claim was largely caused because of both government and local authority orders. I say that because the UK government had placed 
her holiday destination on the amber-list because of the risk of Covid-19. And the direct 
cause of the cancellation was because Mrs Ds local authority specifically denied permission 
for her family member to travel as a result of the amber listing. So not only is the reason for 
Mrs Ds holiday cancellation not covered by the policy terms, I think the exclusion Ive set out 
above would apply to the circumstances of her claim in any event.
I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs Ds position. I appreciate that she had little 
choice but to cancel her holiday and I understand that shes been left out of pocket for 
reasons beyond her control. But overall, I dont think EA acted unfairly when it concluded 
that Mrs Ds claim wasnt covered. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could direct EA to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman