DRN-2947748
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a cancellation claim Mr 
K made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had booked a sporting package holiday abroad. Hed booked flights independently, but 
had booked a hotel and transfers from a company Ill call P. He was due to travel on 16 
March 2020. A few days beforehand, hed been abroad in a European country.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, on 12 March 2020, the government of the country Mr K was 
due to fly to imposed travel restrictions. It banned entry for any traveller whod been in 
mainland Europe in the 14 days prior. The ban came into effect on 13 March 2020.
As Mr K had been in mainland Europe in the 14-day period preceding the restrictions, he 
cancelled his trip on 13 March 2020. He was able to obtain a refund of his flight costs from 
the airline. But P said that under its booking terms and conditions, Mr K wasnt entitled to 
any refund of his package holiday costs. So he made a claim to AXA for the costs 
associated with cancelling the package.
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to the country Mr K had been due to travel to.
AXA turned down Mr Ks claim. It explained that the cancellation section of the policy didnt 
cover changes to FCO advice. It also stated that Mr K hadnt taken out optional add-on 
Travel Disruption cover, which did cover changes to FCO advice. But it said that as a 
gesture of goodwill, it was considering claims outside of the policy terms and in line with the 
Travel Disruption cover. However, in Mr Ks case, the holiday had been booked as a 
package and so AXA considered that P was liable for the cancellation costs under the 
Package Holiday and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR). It also stated 
that the Travel Disruption extension specifically excluded package holiday costs.
Mr K was unhappy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She felt that as AXA had 
agreed to consider claims outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms, it had acted 
fairly and reasonably. But she noted that the Travel Disruption cover applied if the FCO had 
advised against all but essential travel to the policyholders destination. In this case, the FCO 
hadnt advised against travel to Mr Ks destination until three days after hed cancelled his 
trip. If hed waited until 15 March 2020 to cancel the holiday, she considered P wouldve 
been liable to refund his costs under the PTR. So she felt it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr 
Ks claim.
Mr K disagreed. He said hed understood he was covered if the FCO advised against travel. 
Hed felt such advice was imminent and took the responsible measure of cancelling the trip. 
He felt he was being penalised for doing so. And he felt that if he hadnt cancelled the trip, 
hed have been excluded from travelling, or he may have become stuck abroad. He said 
hed been concerned that hed incur far higher claim costs and considered hed been acting 
in AXAs best interests by cancelling and preventing higher costs from arising.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down his 
claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ks policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether AXA treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with AXA. Its clear that given the travel restrictions thatd been imposed, Mr K 
wasnt able to travel as planned and cancelled his trip. However, changes to FCO advice 
arent covered as a listed, insured event under the standard cancellation cover provided by 
the policy. And Mr K hadnt taken out or paid for the optional add-on Travel Disruption cover, 
which does provide the following cover:
We will pay you for your proportion only of any unused travel, accommodation and other 
pre-paid charges that you cannot claim back from any other source if you cannot travel 
and have to cancel your trip as a result of:
The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which you are travelling advising against all travel or all but 
essential travel to the country or specific area you are travelling to providing the advice came 
into force after you purchased this insurance or booked the trip (whichever is the later) and 
was within 28 days of your departure date. (Bold is my emphasis).
On a strict application of the policy terms then, Mr Ks claim wasnt covered by the terms of 
his contract with AXA. Nonetheless, whilst Mr K hadnt paid the premium for the Travel 
Disruption cover, AXA agreed to step away from a strict interpretation of the contract and 
assess the claim under this section as a gesture of goodwill. I think this was a fair and 
reasonable response from AXA, given the circumstances.
So Ive gone on to think about whether AXA ought to have paid Mr Ks claim under the 
Travel Disruption section. This section does cover claims where the FCO has advised 
against all but essential travel to a policyholders destination. But in this case, the FCO didnt 
advise against travel to Mr Ks destination until 15 March 2020. Mr K had already cancelled 
his trip two days before the FCO advice was issued. I can entirely understand why he did so, 
given the restrictions the destination government had imposed, which meant Mr K wouldnt 
be in a position to travel regardless of whether the FCO advised against it or not. Given 
there was no FCO advice in place at the point Mr K cancelled though, I dont think the claim 
falls within the scope of this cover.
The Travel Disruption section of the policy also sets out specific things AXA doesnt cover. 
This includes the following:
Any cost If your trip was booked as part of a package holiday except under:b) subsections 1 and 7 of What is covered for any cost relating to pre-paid charges which do 
not form part of your package holiday; or
c) subsections 1,2,4, and 5 of What is covered if you failed to reach your overseas 
destination to commence the package holiday due to an event covered under this section 
and because of this you were not entitled to claim compensation, assistance or 
reimbursement of any costs, charges and expenses incurred by you from the tour operator.
It seems to me that Mr Ks holiday was booked as a package holiday through P. Generally, a 
package holiday would be considered to be a holiday contract that includes two or more 
travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel provider is 
liable for the performance of these services. Mr Ks told us that he booked accommodation 
and transfers through P. So I think the trip could be fairly treated as a package holiday. This 
means I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that the Travel Disruption section specifically 
excluded Mr Ks cancellation costs.
And I also think the policy terms make it clear that AXA will only pay cancellation claims 
where a policyholder cant recover their costs from elsewhere. The Package Travel and 
Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) provide protection for consumers who 
buy package holidays. Effectively, they say that the travel provider is responsible for 
providing a full refund for holidays which cant be provided. I accept that Mr K cancelled his 
holiday before it was due to begin and that P wasnt therefore in a position to fulfil the terms 
of the booking contract. However, at the point Mr K was due to travel, on 16 March 2020, the 
FCO was advising against all but essential travel to Mr Ks planned destination. And I think 
this means that Mr Ks package holiday through P would likely have had to have been 
cancelled by the relevant travel providers and the booking contract couldnt have been 
fulfilled. 
If this had been the case, P wouldve been liable under the PTR to refund all of the money 
Mr K had paid for his trip. This means his losses wouldve been legally recoverable from P 
and there wouldve been no costs to claim on his travel insurance policy. As Mr K chose to 
cancel his trip on 13 March 2020, prior to the FCO advising against travel two days later, I 
think he prejudiced AXAs position. I think by choosing to cancel the holiday on 13 March 
2020, Mr K put AXA in a worse position than it would otherwise have been than if hed 
waited to cancel the trip and had been entitled to a refund under the PTR. 
Overall, as Ive explained, I can understand why Mr K chose to cancel the trip when he did. 
But given the reasons Ive set out above, even assessing the claim outside of the strict policy 
terms doesnt lead to the claim falling within the scope of Travel Disruption cover. So I dont 
find it would be fair or reasonable here for me to require AXA to further step away from the 
terms of the contract and pay Mr Ks claim. Instead, on the facts of this case, while I 
sympathise with Mr Ks position, Ive decided it was fair for AXA to turn down his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman