DRN-3331110
The complaint
Mr B says James Hay Partnership (JHP) has made excessive and unjustifiable increases to 
the charges it makes on his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr B opened his SIPP in 2002. He told us that it comprises two small freehold shops with a 
total value of around £160,000 and produces a gross annual income of £12,500. He says 
that he handles most of the property management matters including maintenance, 
insurance, lease negotiations and overall management. 
Mr B says that JHP receives the rents direct and pays this to him quarterly after appropriate 
adjustment for income tax. He says it also checks the insurance cover each year. He says 
these tasks are carried out at a basic clerical level with no degree of expertise required. He 
accepts JHP must ensure compliance with regulations but notes his portfolio hasnt changed 
from 1986. He says the total number of hours it must spend on his affairs is minimal.
Mr B says the level of charges JHP now makes are excessive given the work it has to do. He 
says there is no regard to the value of his assets nor the small income generated. He said:
Over the years until 2013 there was a steady increase in charges at an acceptable level and 
the total for that year was £598. In 2014 there was a new charge of £120 for Annual 
Pension Review resulting in a total of £723 for that year. However in 2015 a new Annual 
Property Charge of £480 was imposed for each property making a total of £1569, a rise of 
117% over the previous year. Since that date further rises have continued at unacceptable 
levelsw.e.f. 1 September 2020 which results in a total for the current year at £2804 
including VAT. This equates to a weekly charge of £54 on my pension income which I find 
impossible to relate to their actual duties. The new amount represents a staggering increase 
in fees of 469% since 2013
Mr B complained to JHP in July 2020. It responded the following month rejecting his 
complaint. In broad terms it said there were three main reasons for the most recent changes 
to its charging structure: simplification; to ensure customers using the same service or 
feature for any of its different products pay the same amount; and to make sure that charges 
reflected the cost and risk of the investment options provided. It said some investments (for 
example property) cost more for it to manage and are only used by some customers.
JHP said it wasnt unreasonable, nor should it be unexpected, for a service provider to 
review its terms, conditions and charges from time to time. It acknowledged it had a 
responsibility to communicate any material changes clearly to customers. It said it had done 
so for Mr B. It said he had the option to change provider and that it would waive certain fees 
if he chose to do so.
Mr B brought his complaint to this Service. The Investigator didnt uphold his case. She 
didnt think JHP had done anything wrong. Because both parties couldnt agree on her 
findings and conclusions his complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and issue a 
final decision. This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why Ive arrived at my conclusion.
Complaints about pension providers changing their fee structure or the services they 
provided, without giving the consumers a say in the matter are not uncommon. Theres no 
regulatory limit on the amount that a provider can take by way of charges. But when theres 
a unilateral variation to contracts this Service can consider the circumstances and approach 
taken by a firm.
Variation in terms are common for products with long terms or that are open ended (like 
pensions). But I need to consider whether the terms and conditions entered into with Mr B 
allowed for such change. The terms should be set out in a clear, fair and not-misleading 
way.
Ive seen a copy of the fee agreement, which Mr B signed on 28 May 2002. Its less 
comprehensive than what would be set out in such a document now. While it only lists an 
initial fee and an annual fee (listing what is covered), the agreement provides for additional 
fees being raised for non-standard matters. So, Im satisfied it provided JHP with the scope 
to levy other fees.
Mr B has told us about how charges increased in 2014 with the introduction of an annual 
pension review charge and then in 2015 when an annual property charge was added. But it 
appears the changes proposed by JHP in 2020 were the straw that broke the camels back 
so to speak, giving rise to his complaint.
JHP has provided copies of the letters it sent Mr B informing him about fee changes over the 
years in question. They were all addressed correctly. And I think its more likely than not he 
received them.
JHP told this Service:
[We] conducted a review of the work being undertaken by all the SIPP Administration 
Departments in connection with all our pension products during the course of 2015. This also 
incorporated a review of the literature and charging provisions for each type of SIPP being 
administered by James Hay. The review identified, amongst other matters, an inconsistency 
in approach to the level of charges being raised for activity taking place within some of [our] 
pension arrangements. This presented an opportunity to clarify the charging structure for 
some of our older SIPP arrangements so that we might harmonise them with more 
contemporary arrangements and better reflect the ongoing administration and services 
providedThe review of [our] charging structure also starkly highlighted the increasing levels of work 
that were often being undertaken by [us] in connection with property administration (such as; 
reviewing rent raised/received/changes and leases/sub leases/lease assignments, reviewing 
the insurance cover in lace for each property, answering queries regarding landlord and 
tenant responsibilities & liabilities, settling or refunding landlord expenses) and the fact that 
these services, performed on behalf of the SIPP Trust, were not being consistently 
recharged to the SIPP. It is also considered good estate management to review and update 
our insurance requirements concerning the properties held on a regular basis.
Its important that a consumer is told the reason for any changes proposed by a firm. 
Businesses can change the terms for various operational reasons. They may also need to 
change the terms to implement a change brought in by regulation. Having reviewed the 
information sent to Mr B, Im satisfied hes been informed about why changes were taking 
place. For example, in 2020 JHP explained the changes to Mr B in the following terms:
We regularly review our charges and consider the feedback we receive from our customers. 
Weve identified that the current charging structure of your SIPP is quite complex and can 
sometimes be difficult to understand. Were therefore simplifying it.
We also want to ensure that customers using the same service or feature for any of our 
different products pay the same amount for them. Were therefore bringing some of the 
terms and conditions of your SIPP into line with those of our other SIPP products.
In addition, we want to make sure that charges reflect the cost and risk of the investment 
options provided, as some investments (for example property) cost more for us to manage 
and are only used by some customers. We believe that these changes will make these costs 
fairer to all customers.
Wed expect JHP to have given its customers proper notice of the changes it was proposing. 
Having reviewed the letters it sent to Mr B, I can see it informed him of changes being made 
at least 30 days prior to implementation. I think this is a reasonable period for him to have 
made an informed decision about how he wanted to proceed.
In that regard, we would expect consumers faced with changes to their terms to have been 
given an option to leave the service of the business without charge. This is because 
alterations to charges and services tend to be material changes to the terms they signed up 
to, so they should be given the option to leave without paying the usual exit fees.
Ive reviewed JHPs communications with Mr B and can see that he was informed of his 
options, which variously included moving to an alternative JHP product or an alternative 
provider. And he was given a reasonable time to think about what he wanted to do. For 
example, in 2020 he had three months to decide if he wanted to transfer to a different 
provider, and if he did JHP would waive the proposed fee increases and the transfer out 
charge.
Overall, JHP has fulfilled its responsibilities and so it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I understand Mr Bs argument that he deals with most of the management issues related to 
the properties he holds in his SIPP. I know he also thinks JHPs role and overheads are 
minimal, with its tasks carried out at a basic clerical level with no degree of expertise 
required. And that the total number of hours it must spend on his affairs is minimal.
Id observe that in my experience the management and compliance overheads associated 
with a SIPP are significant, increasing over time not least to ensure proper protections for 
consumers. Responsibilities, including matters related to the particular assets held within 
them such as properties, require specialist expertise. I accept that a charging structure developed with all JHPs customers in mind is necessarily 
going to lead to some averaging of some costs in the overhead fees. It may or may not be 
the case that such a methodology is a disadvantage to Mr B given what he has told us about 
the size and simplicity of his arrangement. Similarly, the argument JHP makes about 
simplifying matters for its customers doesnt necessarily mean that will be the case for all. 
But its for JHP to arrive at a charging structure it thinks is appropriate.
Mr B says JHP were aware that the legal costs and setting up fees involved with using a new 
SIPP provider made any potential benefits from lower fees likely to be not financially viable 
given he was at that time already 83. I understand the point he makes and Im sure hes 
done the calculations in arriving at his decision. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman