DRN-4048102
Complaint
Mr B has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr B with a first loan for £1,500.00 in January 2019. This 
loan had an APR of 181.0% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £3,641.76, including interest, fees and charges of £2,141.76, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of just over £150. This loan was settled early, in November 2020, 
with some of the proceeds from loan 2.  
Everyday Loans then provided Mr B with a second loan for £3,100.00 in August 2020. 
£1,236.26 went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan had an APR of 
133.6% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£8,824.32, including interest, fees and charges of £5,724.36, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of just over £290.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and he thought Everyday Loans didnt do 
anything wrong when providing loan 1. But he also that Everyday Loans ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr B with loan 2. So he thought that Mr Bs complaint 
should be partially upheld. 
Mr B and Everyday Loans werent able to agree on which parts, if any, of the complaint 
should be upheld. And as the parties were unable to reach an agreement, the case was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
and obtained bank statements before these loans were provided. The results of which 
showed that at the time of loan 1, Mr B did have some existing debts and some evidence of 
payday lending. 
Nonetheless, it looks like Everyday Loans did obtain some expenditure information from        
Mr B. And this suggested that Mr B was capable of making the monthly payments he was 
being expected to commit to. Furthermore, while I appreciate that there were period where 
Mr B had been overdrawn, there wasnt anything obvious within them to suggest that the 
expenditure information obtained was incorrect. 
Bearing in mind all of his and the fact that the loan payments appeared affordable, Im 
satisfied that Everyday Loans didnt act unfairly towards Mr B when providing loan 1.
However, I do have concerns about Everyday Loans decision to provide Mr B with loan 2. I 
say this because it once again carried out a credit check. The results of which showed that 
Mr B was significantly more indebted than he was at the time he was provided with loan 1. It 
also looks like he may have been in some kind of debt arrangement at this stage too. Im 
also concerned at some of the information that was showing on the bank statements that 
Everyday Loans obtained from Mr B too. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr B has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Bs financial position wasnt as a 
result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Mr Bs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Bs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 2, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Mr B. As Everyday 
Loans provided Mr B with loan 2, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr B ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan 
he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr B lost out because of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr B by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mr B made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3,100.00 originally lent. If 
Mr B has already paid Everyday Loans more than £3,100.00 then it should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr B;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr B to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Everyday Loans recorded about loan 2 should be removed from Mr Bs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman