DRN-4459522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) settlement and poor service 
of their claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W shower door was shattered, and they contacted Aviva to make a claim. The 
claim was accepted, and photos of the damaged door was sent to Aviva. Aviva carried out 
an assessment of the damage and ultimately offered £596.82, by way of a cash settlement, 
subject to the policy excess of £150. 
Mr and Mrs W said that they were unable to locate someone to carry out the repairs. They 
wanted Aviva to send out an assessor to assess the damage and a contractor to repair the 
door. They felt that the cash settlement offered was too low. 
They also said that Aviva had handled their claim poorly, as they constantly had to chase to 
progress the claim. Further, they had been sent a letter that stated that their claim would be 
closed, due to lack of contact from them, when the claim had only been open a short period 
of time. And Aviva had only one unsuccessful contact with them.
Aviva said that it was unable to locate a tradesman and offered the cash settlement based 
on the policy terms, that is, what it wouldve cost them to carry out the repair. Aviva accepted 
that there were some poor service issues and offered and paid £50 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused. Aviva also said that if the cash settlement wasnt enough, it 
would review any further costs that Mr and Mrs W had incurred. 
As Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy, they raised a complaint. In its final response, Aviva 
maintained its position that it had fairly dealt with Mr and Mrs Ws claim, in line with the 
policy terms. And as Mr and Mrs W were given their referral rights, they referred a complaint 
to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said that the policy terms meant that Avivas obligation was to offer a cash settlement. There 
was no obligation to offer a repair. Further, that the cash settlement would be limited to the 
amount it wouldve cost Aviva. He also said that the compensation offered was broadly in 
line with our services guidelines. So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask 
Aviva to do.  
Aviva accepted the view, Mr and Mrs W did not. They asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman, without putting forward any further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, terms and conditions of the policy and the evidence 
both parties have provided. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether Aviva were fair 
to settle the claim on the basis of the policy terms and conditions.
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what both parties obligations were, as 
this was the agreement that both parties contracted.
Under the policy, following a claim, it was Mr and Mrs Ws obligation to prove the 
loss/damage. They did so with the provision of photos, which Aviva accepted as proof that 
the damage was caused to the shower door. 
Avivas obligations, after an acceptance of a claim, were as follows:
Settling claim (except liability)
We can choose to settle your claim by repairing, giving you an equivalent replacement (for 
mobile phones this includes providing a refurbished model) or making a payment. Where we 
provide you with a refurbished mobile phone our aim will be to let you keep your existing 
number but if, for reasons beyond our control, you can't then your replacement phone will be 
connected to a new number. If we are able to repair or replace your property but agree to 
settle using cash or a voucher, we will only pay for what it would have cost us to repair or 
replace it.  
From this, Aviva is obligated to offer a cash settlement. There is no obligation to also offer a 
repair. Aviva said that it attempted to locate a suitable tradesman but was unable to do so. 
And it offered the cash settlement on the basis of what it wouldve cost it, to carry out the 
repair. But it also recognised that in settling the claim, it was only able to offer one solution, 
namely a cash settlement. And because of this, it said if the cash settlement wasnt enough, 
then Mr and Mrs W ought to return, and it would review any further costs that they had 
incurred. 
Mr and Mrs W have yet to obtain quotes to repair the door, but at this stage, I dont think 
Aviva has been unreasonable in its cash settlement offer. Nor do I think it has been unfair to 
offer to further review the costs that Mr and Mrs W might incur when they repair the shower 
door. 
Ive next considered the compensation Aviva paid for the poor service. Im pleased that 
Aviva recognised that there were some poor service issues. I note that it offered and paid 
£50 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. Having reviewed our services 
guidelines on compensation awards, Im satisfied that Avivas offer of compensation, is in 
line with what we would expect. So, I wont be asking Aviva to increase this further. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about this complaint. But, in the overall 
circumstances, I havent seen enough evidence to show that Aviva acted unfairly. Im 
therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman