DRN-2100713
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent 
to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs H took out two loans with MoneyBoat in 2017.
Loan Date borrowed Date repaid Amount No. of 
instalments
125.10.17 25.10.17 £200 2
207.11.17 - £500 5
Mrs H repaid loan 1 in full, but she was unable to keep up with her repayments on loan 2, 
and a substantial balance remained outstanding on that loan when she brought her 
complaint to us.
Mrs H says she was experiencing financial difficulty at the time, and had other payday loans 
outstanding when she borrowed from MoneyBoat. And she believes that MoneyBoat should 
have realised this if it carried out adequate checks.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he didnt think that 
it would have been proportionate for MoneyBoat to ask Mrs H for the amount of information 
that would have been needed to show that the borrowing was unsustainable.
Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H 
and to MoneyBoat on 16 July 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure that Mrs H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
It was important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow 
this was the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mrs Hs complaint.
MoneyBoat performed some checks before it lent to Mrs H. It asked her for details of 
her regular monthly income and expenditure. And it carried out a credit search before 
each loan. At this early stage of Mrs Hs borrowing relationship with MoneyBoat, I was 
satisfied that the checks that MoneyBoat carried out were proportionate. But that 
didnt, in itself, mean that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I had to consider whether 
there was anything in the information MoneyBoat had which suggested that Mrs H 
might struggle to repay the loans sustainably.
Id looked at the results of the credit search MoneyBoat carried out before making the 
first loan. It showed that Mrs H already had a short-term loan open with another lender. 
In addition to that she had four unsecured loans outstanding, all of which had been 
opened a few months before she applied to borrow from MoneyBoat. The amounts of 
those loans and the regular payments shown on the credit search suggested to me 
that it was likely they were also short-term loans. And Mrs H had a significant balance 
on a mail order account, which was almost at its credit limit.
When she applied for loan 1, Mrs H told MoneyBoat that her monthly expenditure on 
credit was £0. I commented that it would have been immediately clear to MoneyBoat 
from the credit search that this wasnt the case. And I noted that when it assessed the 
application, MoneyBoat increased the monthly expenditure figure that Mrs H provided. It had explained that this was because the expenditure Mrs H declared in her 
application didnt match what the credit report showed, and/or to bring the figures in 
line with industry standards.
Based on the regular repayment figures for the on-going unsecured loans shown on 
Mrs Hs credit report, it looked to me as if MoneyBoat may not have increased her 
expenditure figures enough. By my calculation, the combined regular repayments on 
Mrs Hs existing credit would have left her with little or no disposable income with 
which to meet the repayments on the loans she took out with MoneyBoat.
But regardless of whether the loans were affordable to Mrs H on a strict pounds and 
pence basis, I thought that the overall picture that the credit report gave of Mrs Hs 
financial position was of someone who was having problems managing their money. 
And although Mrs H repaid loan 1 in full, the credit search that MoneyBoat carried out 
before agreeing loan 2 showed that her overall financial position was much the same. 
What was more, Mrs H applied for loan 2 less than a fortnight after finishing repaying 
loan 1. It was for more than twice as much as loan 1, and she was committing to make 
monthly repayments for five months.
Taking everything into account, I thought that the information that MoneyBoat had 
before it when considering Mrs Hs loan applications should have alerted it to the 
likelihood that shed struggle to repay the borrowing sustainably. And I didnt think it 
should have agreed to make either loan.
I thought MoneyBoat should put things right by doing as Ive set out below.
further submissions
Mrs H has told us she has nothing further to add. MoneyBoat hasnt commented on my 
provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
MoneyBoat shouldnt have made the loans to Mrs H. So MoneyBoat should:
a. refund all interest and charges Mrs H paid on loan 1;
b. pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunded interest and charges from 
the dates they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c. write off any unpaid interest and charges from loan 2;
d. treat all repayments Mrs H has made towards loan 2 as repayments towards 
the capital;
e. if there is a capital balance outstanding on loan 2, MoneyBoat can use the 
refund calculated in a. and b. above to reduce this balance, and any 
remaining refund should be paid to Mrs H;f. if, after applying the refund, there is still an outstanding capital balance, then 
MoneyBoat needs to treat Mrs H positively and sympathetically in this matter.
g. remove all negative information about loan 1 and - once it has been repaid - 
about loan 2 from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mrs H a certificate, showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Evergreen Finance London Limited 
(trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman