DRN-3117550
The complaint
Miss L has complained about the service she received from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) under her home emergency insurance policy when she reported a problem with 
her boiler.
References in this decision to RSA include its contractors.
What happened
On 4 November 2020 Miss L contacted RSA about a problem with her boiler which wasnt 
providing hot water. An RSA engineer attended the next day.
During the course of the engineers visit it appears that an argument took place between 
Miss Ls partner and the engineer. The engineer called the police as the situation became 
volatile, and he abandoned his visit. He also called Gas Safe, and there are conflicting 
accounts as to whether this was because hed identified a gas leak, or because hed had to 
leave the property without having had the opportunity to reconnect the boiler and check it 
was safe. Gas Safe disconnected the gas supply. RSA said it wouldnt attend again because 
of what had happened. 
Miss L had to make her own arrangements to have her gas reconnected which she did two 
days later. This cost her £70. She then arranged for a new boiler to be installed three weeks 
later at a cost of £1,080. She asked RSA to reimburse her for these sums.
RSA has said that if her boiler was repairable, it would consider reimbursing her for the cost 
of this repair by a third party if the nature of the repair was covered by her policy, and up to 
the claim limit of £1,000. But it said it didnt have sufficient information to consider Miss Ls 
request for reimbursement, so it asked her to provide the following information:
The age of her old boiler
A copy of its service history
Clarification as to whether the engineers who had reinstated her gas supply had 
been able to reinstate her heating and hot water
A report from the company that fitted her new boiler explaining the damage that had 
been present in her old boiler before it was replaced.
Miss L wasnt able to provide any of this information to RSA. She said that shed spoken to 
the company who fitted her new boiler and that it said it didnt have full details of the fault 
with the old boiler as it had been  two months since the new boiler was fitted, but Miss L said 
it confirmed that it was broken due to RSAs engineer having broken a part. She believes 
that RSA shouldve sent out another engineer to fix her boiler.
RSA did accept that when its engineer left on 5 November, Miss L hadnt been told that she 
could appoint her own engineer to fix her boiler and provide their invoice to RSA for 
consideration. RSA offered Miss L £50 for this shortfall in its service.
Miss L wasnt satisfied with RSAs response to her complaint and the offer of £50, so she 
brought her complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that the information RSA 
had asked for from Miss L to enable it to assess her claim was reasonable, and that Miss L 
hadnt provided sufficient evidence to support her claim for reimbursement. 
Miss L doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Miss Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen what both RSA and Miss L have said about what took place when RSAs engineer 
attended on 5 November and what then followed. In coming to my decision, I havent formed 
a view on what actually happened on that occasion, as Im not in a position to say whose 
version of events is correct, and I havent taken sides. 
But I have taken into account what appears to be common ground that the police were called 
by RSAs engineer because of an altercation between him and Miss Ls partner following 
which he left the property. And it does seem to me to be more likely than not that RSAs 
engineer had a valid reason to abandon his visit to Miss L as calling the police is not 
something that is done lightly. I also consider that the engineer acted responsibly in 
contacting Gas Safe to ensure that the boiler was safe as hed been unable to complete his 
inspection and to leave it in a safe condition before he left the property. Gas Safe, an 
independent third party, considered it was necessary to disconnect the supply for safety 
reasons. 
I dont consider that it was unreasonable in the circumstances for RSA to say that it wouldnt 
return to reinstate Miss Ls gas supply and complete the boiler repair. It has a responsibility 
to ensure that its staff can operate safely and without threatening behaviour. I therefor 
consider that it would be unreasonable to require RSA to reimburse Miss L for the £70 cost 
of reinstating her gas supply as this wouldnt have been necessary if RSAs engineer had 
been able to complete his inspection and leave the boiler safe on 5 November.
Turning to the new boiler that Miss L had to pay for, I think its reasonable for RSA to ask for 
further information from Miss L about what third parties found when they worked on Miss Ls 
old boiler so it could properly assess a claim for reimbursement. This would have indicated 
whether the problem was one covered by Miss Ls policy. I also think it was reasonable for it 
to ask for evidence of the age of the boiler and for its service history, because this 
information is relevant to exclusions from cover that the policy contains.
RSA has offered Miss L £50 for failing to advise her that she could use her own tradesmen 
and submit their reports for consideration. If Miss L had been given this advice, she might 
have asked her contractors when they were instructed rather than two months later to report 
on the fault with the old boiler and why it was necessary to fit a new one. Miss L has 
provided invoices from her contractors, neither of which make any reference to any fault with 
the old boiler. Miss L hasnt been able to provide any report that comments on the condition 
of the boiler. 
But Miss L has also not provided any of the other information requested by RSA that would 
enable it to assess her claim. I therefore dont consider that RSAs failure to inform Miss L that she could instruct her own trades and provide a report for consideration for 
reimbursement was the only reason why her claim was rejected.
In these circumstances I consider that the £50 offered to Miss L is reasonable and RSA 
should pay this sum to her if it hasnt already done so.
So whilst I have sympathy for the inconvenience that Miss L experienced, and the fact that 
she had to pay for a new boiler, she hasnt provided any evidence that the fault might have 
been one covered by her policy for which RSA might have reimbursed her or paid a 
contribution towards a new boiler if her old one was beyond economic repair. She also 
hasnt provided any evidence to support her assertion that RSA is responsible for the need 
for a new boiler. In these circumstances I dont consider that RSA has been unreasonable in 
rejecting her claim.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman