DRN-2039881
The complaint
Mr M has complained his car was missold and Santander Consumer (UK) plc wont do 
whats needed to help him.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M went to buy a new car: the first time he was doing this. Hed been 
looking at a specific model and colour. He was persuaded to buy the car in red to avoid the 
long wait for this model in another colour. He took out a conditional sale agreement. The 
price he paid also included additional cover hed bought to ensure he wouldnt have to pay 
for any scratches or damage to the car paintwork to be repaired.
Within a few months and following a few chips to his car, Mr M found out the insurance hed 
bought didnt provide cover for the colour of the car hed bought. As he was buying a new 
car for the first time, hed been keen to ensure that he got the relevant cover to protect the 
long-term value of the car. He therefore felt the car had been mis-sold and complained to 
Santander. The dealer refunded the cost of the insurance as it clearly didnt provide the 
cover Mr M had bought. Santander offered Mr M £50 for the inconvenience.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt the evidence showed the cover had been missold to Mr M. She also 
believed this had led to Mr M buying the car. She asked Santander to research whether 
alternative cover was feasible but warned them that if this didnt work out, then shed be 
allowing Mr M to reject the car.
Mr M was only willing to reject the car if all his costs  including his monthly credit 
repayments  were refunded. Hed been looking at having repairs done to his car  some of 
which turned out unsuccessful  but felt this meant long-term the bodywork condition would 
continue to be an issue for him thus devaluing the car. The redress on offer seemed to him 
to leave him out of pocket as he ended up with no car and its residual value; despite paying 
nearly the full terms worth of monthly amounts.
Agreement couldnt be reached between Santander and Mr M. His complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 28 September 2021. Like our investigator I believed 
the car had been mis-sold. I changed the redress on offer. Mr M would only pay 80% of the 
monthly credit payments and have the deposit returned if he gave up the car. Aware that this 
would potentially leave Mr M out of pocket, I also considered whether it would be fairer for 
him to keep the car and have additional compensation to counter the loss of value on his car 
because of the deterioration of the paintwork. 
Mr M believed both of the solutions left him out of pocket. He suggested that an acceptable 
alternative would be to waive the last six months worth of credit payments.
I received no response from Santander.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. I have 
amended the solution again but have confirmed my thinking already to Santander. Ill explain 
further.  
The key issue to decide first is whether there was a misrepresentation about the insurance 
cover provided with Mr Ms car. And then whether this led Mr M to make the decision to take 
the car on the terms offered.
The dealership (and Santander) have accepted the cover for the paintwork wasnt suitable 
for the car Mr M bought. £395 was refunded to him being the cost of the cover. He wasnt 
prepared to accept this as a fair resolution. Mr M believed hed only bought the car as hed 
had the guarantee of the cover to protect the condition of the bodywork.
I believe its important to note that this car was the first Mr M had bought brand new. He had 
a specific colour in mind that he wanted to get. He was told the lead times to get one in the 
blue would take months. So he was persuaded to get a red car. This red was a very specific 
colour and therefore its completely understandable Mr M wanted to protect it from damage. 
Some colours show up damage even at a cosmetic level more than others. Mr M took out 
the protection on offer thinking that it would provide what he wanted. 
Mr Ms testimony to us throughout has been consistent and credible. I can see hed want to 
protect the car and if hed known that he couldnt  as turned out to be the case here  then 
hed have made a different decision about the car. So for instance I believe hed have been 
more than likely to have decided to wait slightly longer to get the car in the colour hed 
always wanted anyway.
Im satisfied the protection was misrepresented and this led to Mr M buying the car he did. I 
now have to consider what is a fair solution.
Putting things right
The principle in these cases is to put the customer back in a position hed have been in 
without the misrepresentation taking place. Occasionally it can be arranged to sort out the 
misrepresentation and either for example, offer alternative insurance and protection and 
ensure effective repairs are carried out to the bodywork at no cost to the customer.
Our investigator spent a good deal of time exploring alternatives. Santander located an 
alternative product they felt may work. Mr M looked at getting bodywork repairs done. 
Despite 16 months having passed since our investigators original view, no alternative 
solution properly materialised that either Santander or Mr M has found appropriate.
Our investigator always felt that allowing Mr M to reject the car may be the only solution. In 
agreeing to this, hed also get the deposit he paid (£16,505.69  half of the overall cost) back 
along with 8% simple interest a year. But as Mr M had used the car throughout the period 
hes had it, she also believed it was right he continue to pay the monthly credit instalments.
Mr M wouldnt accept this solution. Hed hoped to end up with a car with a retained value at 
the end of his three year conditional sale agreement. By which time hed have paid £33,011.37 but be left with a car that was worth in excess of £25,000. I agree that hed be 
substantially out of pocket so originally proposed alternative solutions.
Current mileage on Mr Ms car is just under 19,500. This is lower than average for a car 
thats over two and a half years old but reflects changed driving habits through prolonged 
national periods of lockdown. 
Mr Ms car has damage to the bodywork which he cant get simply repaired without a full 
panel respray. Nor does any respray provide a guarantee that he wouldnt have to pay out 
again for similar bodywork in the case of further damage. This suggests to me that Mr Ms 
had impaired use of the car over the period hes had it. To reflect this I believed asking 
Santander to reimburse 20% of the monthly credit payments Mr M had made (along with 8% 
simple interest) would be fair. The deposit (and 8%) should also be reimbursed. 
In addition I proposed compensation of £650 should be paid for the difficulties Mr M has 
been through in getting this resolved.
My alternative solution at the time of the provisional decision was for Mr M to keep the car 
and be given £1,000 compensation. This would go some way to compensate him for body 
repairs that he may have to undertake or the loss of value when he trades in his car.
Mr M responded as I rather thought he may and felt this wasnt fair. As a further alternative 
he proposed Santander waive the last six months credit payments he was due to make.  
I noted that six months worth of payments amounts to nearly £2,750. Im also aware that 
Mr Ms conditional sale agreement was completed at 0% rate of interest. I felt this was more 
than I thought was fair based on what had happened and any likely future value of Mr Ms 
car. However I am sympathetic to this general approach. I have decided that waiving four 
months payments would be fair. I wrote to Santander more than a week ago to confirm I 
would be taking this approach.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Santander Consumer (UK) plc to 
waive the last four months of payments towards Mr Ms conditional sale agreement and 
mark the agreement as settled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman