DRN-1987486
The complaint
Miss B complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) delayed 
recalling a money transfer from her credit card account.
What happened
Miss B made an online money transfer from her Tesco credit card account to a bank account 
in her name with another bank. She realised that she had entered incorrect account details 
and telephoned Tesco the following day to let them know of the error and to ask for their 
assistance in recalling the payment. Miss B says that during this telephone call Tesco said if 
the payment hadnt gone to a genuine account number it would be returned and she should 
contact her bank to see if the payment had been received before they could start the recall 
process. 
When Miss B contacted the receiving bank, they told her they couldnt provide any 
information, so Miss B relayed that back to Tesco who then told her to wait a few days to see 
if the payment gets returned. A few days later Miss B contacted Tesco who said the funds 
hadnt been returned and it would be a week before they could start the recall process. Miss 
B says the delay in recalling the payment by Tesco was the reason why she didnt get her 
money back. 
Tesco say that while they admit they gave incorrect advice to Miss B they feel that the 
receiving bank could have done more to remedy the mistake given they had been informed 
of the mistake by Miss B and therefore not solely their error. As recognition of delaying the 
recall process they paid Miss B £50 in compensation.
Miss B wasnt happy with this and wants all of the money sent refunded and referred this 
matter to this service.
The investigator obtained all the relevant information available and upheld Miss Bs 
complaint as she felt Tesco hadnt acted quickly enough in beginning the recall of the 
payment and misinformed Miss B of the timescales of the process. The receiving bank told 
the investigator that if Tesco had contacted them on the day that Miss B advised Tesco of 
the error, they could have returned £150.  
In view of this the investigator felt that Tescos actions had prevented Miss B getting the 
majority of her money back . The investigator asked Tesco to pay Miss B £150 plus interest 
at 8% and a compensation payment for the inconvenience caused of £100. 
Tesco were unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for much the 
same reasons. I will explain how I have come to my decision.
When considering this complaint, I have considered whether Tesco could have done more 
when Miss B advised them of the error in the payment she made when making the money 
transfer to her other bank account. 
Miss B  says that she contacted Tesco the day after she had made the money transfer, 
 when she noticed she had incorrectly put the wrong account number details in the payment- 
by one digit. The reason behind the error doesnt detract from the fact that Miss B had made 
the error, and this isnt challenged by either party. That said Miss B did inform Tesco the 
following day, as soon as she had realised the error she had made, and I am satisfied she 
acted promptly in letting Tesco know this.
Tesco have also admitted that the information they provided Miss B,  during the process 
wasnt correct. Tescos customer service representative told Miss B that if the payment 
rejects the funds would be returned by the recipient bank and that she should contact them 
to check if it had been paid into a genuine bank account.  I can see that Miss B contacted 
her bank that day but was told they couldnt provide her with any details  Miss B then called 
Tesco back to advise them of this. At this stage Tesco told Miss B she should wait a few 
days to see if the payment was retuned and when it wasnt,  Miss B contacted them again at 
which point Tesco said they would need a week to commence the recall process. 
I can see that Tesco have admitted that they have made a mistake here and have paid £50 
to Miss B in compensation to reflect the misinformation about the recall process. In some  
circumstances Tescos course of actions may have resulted in a successful  recall of the 
payment and the compensation payment of £50 for giving Miss B incorrect information would 
seem reasonable. But in this situation by Tesco not dealing with the recall immediately it 
gave the opportunity for the recipient to spend the money. So, what is important here is the 
delay in  not acting quickly resulted in substantially reducing Miss Bs chances of getting the 
payment back. 
Its worth mentioning here, in January 2016, Faster Payments announced new procedures to 
help customers who make payments in error, these procedures layout what they expect 
banks to do in these circumstances and say When its told about a mistake, the sending 
payment services provider must contact the receiving payment services provider within two 
working days. If the mistakes clear, it should ask the receiving payment services provider to 
prevent the money being spent. This is not what happened here. Tesco told Miss B to 
contact the receiving bank herself  and then delayed the process in initiating the recall for 
several days. I dont think Tesco acted in line with the procedures expected of them here. 
While I understand that it was possible the recall of the payment  under these procedures 
 did not guarantee a successful outcome, Miss B hadnt been given the opportunity to see if 
it would have. By the time Tesco had tried to recall the payment it was rejected as the funds 
were no longer available.  Miss Bs receiving bank have also said that if Tesco had recalled 
the payment on the day the error was identified, they could have returned £150. I understand 
that Tesco feel that the receiving bank could have done more and if this is the case, they are 
free to take the matter up with them.
While I understand that Tesco will be disappointed with my decision, I agree with the 
investigator here and support the level of award suggested by her. 
Putting things rightI instruct Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank to pay Miss B £150 plus 
interest at 8% until settled and a further £50 for distress and upset caused in addition to the 
£50 already paid.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank to pay Miss B £150 plus 
interest at 8% until settled and a further £50 for distress and upset caused in addition to the 
£50 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman