DRN-4216872
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with Secure Trust Bank PLC, trading as V12 Vehicle Finance (V12). 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are known to both parties. So Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But in summary, Miss W acquired a used car under a hire 
purchase agreement with V12 in October 2022. The car was around eight years old and had 
covered around 116,000 miles. It cost around £9,700 and was to be paid back over five 
years with payments of around £200 per month and a £500 deposit. 
Miss W said that when she took the car home her partner noticed things he didnt like the 
look of. Miss W says she tried to return the car because she thought she had a 7-day cooling 
off period, but this was declined. Miss W contacted the supplying dealer because she says 
the car was leaking water and oil. Shes supplied an invoice from November 2022 from a 
garage that said it found suspected oil leaks. It also said there was oil in the cooling system. 
The invoice said the garage topped up the coolant but the fault required further investigation. 
Miss W says she wanted to reject the car. The supplying dealer sent Miss W details of the 
warranty she had. 
Miss W says she contacted V12 for help and the car was booked in for testing with the 
supplying dealer in December 2022. Miss W says before she booked the car in the engine 
management light came on. She says the supplying dealer had the car for a few days and 
completed diagnostics and a coolant flush. Miss W says the car had further problems when it 
was returned. She says there was a warning the coolant needed topping up, it was juddering 
and it wasnt starting. 
V12 arranged an independent inspection in February 2023. The mileage at this point was 
around 117,300. This report said there was oil contamination in the cooling system and the 
symptoms have returned. It also said there were exhaust fumes in the coolant. It said those 
symptoms were consistent with a breach of the cylinder head gasket and it said, given the 
circumstances, the responsibility would lie with the supplier. It said the initial repairs had 
failed. 
Miss W brought her complaint to our service to consider. The supplying dealer said Miss W 
returned the car to it. It said the car started first time after the battery was boosted, indicating 
the problem with the starting was down to the battery. But it said it would replace the battery 
as a gesture of goodwill. It said it pumped up the tyres because the pressure warning light 
was on. It also said there was no sign of oil in the coolant. It noted there was some by the 
tank ring but this couldnt have come from the engine. It said it completed another coolant 
flush. It said it suspected oil had been put in from the coolant cap hole and this wouldnt be 
possible if there was a head gasket failure. The supplying dealer said it completed a 
compression test for the head gasket and results were normal. It also completed checks on 
the pipes. In summary, the supplying dealer said it thought oil had been placed in the coolant 
tank by hand and that it wasnt responsible for negligence. 
Another independent report was completed in April 2023. This said there was a top up 
coolant warning message on the dashboard, but the levels were correct. It said this might 
indicate a sensor fault. It noted some other unrelated fault codes and said these would need 
to be cleared to see if they re-establish themselves. It carried out tests and said the car 
performed as expected so it was of satisfactory quality. 
V12 sent a final response to say it wasnt upholding the complaint. One of our investigators 
looked into things and decided to uphold it. He said he thought Miss W had provided 
evidence of the initial fault. And he thought that by replacing the coolant and possibly adding 
an additive before the second independent inspection, this mightve temporarily masked the 
issue. Ultimately our investigator thought the car did have a fault that made it of 
unsatisfactory quality. He thought the supplying dealer had the opportunity to repair it but the 
repair didnt bring the contract back to conformity. So he recommended V12 allow Miss W to 
reject the goods. He says Miss W should receive a full refund of payments from March 2023 
when she stopped using the car. He said she should receive 10% back of her payments 
from November to February to reflect the impaired use of the car. And he said she should be 
paid £150 in compensation. 
Miss W accepted the recommendations, but V12 didnt. The supplying dealer replied to say 
its own report and the second independent inspection didnt note the faults our investigator 
highlighted. It said it took it to another garage that also said it found no oil and water mixing 
in the header tank. It said it carried out a head gasket pressure test and results concluded no 
issues with the head gasket. It said the engine didnt overheat and the radiators were 
working correctly. In summary, the supplying dealer said there were more garages to show 
there isnt an issue. So V12, via the supplying dealer didnt accept the investigators 
recommendations. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Miss W and V12 that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Miss W acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss W entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. V12 is 
the trader for the purposes of the CRA and is therefore responsible for dealing with a 
complaint about their quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of supply.In Miss Ws case, the car supplied was used and had covered around 116,000 miles. 
Thered be different expectations than if it was a brand-new car. But its worth pointing out 
the car cost nearly £10,000.  
On the one hand, Miss W has supplied evidence that indicates there was an issue with the 
car shortly after acquiring it. V12 decided to obtain a report off the back of that, which 
highlights the fault. So I think this gives a strong indication there was a fault, and having 
spent £9,700 on the car, I dont think Miss W (or a reasonable person) would have expected 
a fault like this that could have significant repair costs to manifest straight away. Moreover, 
the supplying dealer had the chance to put things right before the first independent 
inspection.  
However, on the other hand, the supplying dealer has said it carried out its own inspection. It 
said the second independent inspection didnt find the fault Miss W complained about. And 
that it took the car to another garage which couldnt find the fault either. From the supplying 
dealers point of view it says more garages have not found the fault than have found it. And it 
suspects Miss W mightve been the cause of the oil in the coolant. 
Where the evidence is inconclusive of incomplete I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. 
The supplying dealer seems to be saying theres no fault with the car, and/or that the issue 
mightve been caused by negligence, or Miss W doing something intentionally to show oil 
mixing with the coolant. It also says other garages, and independent experts couldnt find the 
fault. Of course its possible that Miss W complained about an oil leak that didnt exist or was 
unrelated; did something to the car that made a third party garage diagnose a likely oil leak 
and oil in the coolant; and then did something to persuade the independent technician to say 
there was oil in the coolant expansion tank and exhaust fumes present in the coolant during 
the head gasket test (after it had already been returned to the supplying dealer for 
inspection). Unlike a court, Im unable to take sworn evidence from the parties. But based on 
what Ive seen, on balance, I dont consider those above events together just mentioned to 
be the most likely thing to have happened. Moreover, I think its important to note, unlike the 
allegations about the oil, no one has explained how Miss W would have been able to do 
something that would have showed exhaust fumes present in the coolant. 
I find there likely was a fault manifesting and the most persuasive evidence, from the time, 
indicates it was with the head gasket. And given the signs of it happened within a few days 
of Miss W taking possession of the car I think the fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
Its a potentially significant and costly issue that could lead to further problems. After 
acquiring the car for nearly £10,000 even given its age and mileage I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect to have this sort of inherent fault. So I think there was a 
breach of contract. 
V12 and the supplying dealer had the opportunity to put things right (before the first 
independent inspection). From what Ive been told, the supplying dealer carried out 
diagnostics and changed the coolant before it gave the car back to Miss W. The initial 
independent inspection found the fault. And Miss W wanted to reject the goods off the back 
of that. Given thered been the one allowed repair attempt as per the CRA, I think V12 
should have allowed her to do that  at that point in time. 
Ive also thought about the more recent evidence submitted by V12 and the supplying dealer 
 including a second independent report. I dont know why the supplying dealers inspection, 
the second independent report, and the more recent third-party garage didnt pick up the 
faults that the initial inspection found. Its possible that the fault has been repaired. Or its 
possible that theres been some sort of temporary fix when carrying out the flush of the coolant system. I dont have enough evidence to reach conclusions on this point. But based 
on the sequence of events, it seems unlikely that the underlying fault simply disappeared or 
was never there in the first place. Like Ive said above, theres no explanation about exhaust 
fumes being present in the coolant. Again, Im unable to take sworn evidence. But I think the 
key thing here is that after the initial independent inspection, on balance, I think Miss W had 
the grounds to reject the car, and I think V12 should have allowed her to do that then. 
Therefore, Im going to direct V12 to carry out what our investigator recommended. I think 
rejecting the car seems fair along with receiving a refund of the deposit. I dont think its fair 
for Miss W to have to keep it, even if its now been repaired because I think she validly 
asked to reject it. I agree that she should receive all payments back from March 2023 for the 
time she stopped using the car. I also think a 10% refund for impaired use from November to 
February and £150 for distress and inconvenience are broadly fair too. I cant hold V12 
responsible for the ongoing customer service of the supplying dealer. 
Finally, Im not sure if Miss W paid for or has received a refund for the initial inspection she 
had carried out by the garage. She received an invoice for £77.99 for this on 18 November 
2022. She should also receive this back if shes paid it and shes not already received a 
refund. I say this because I think this cost looks to be as a direct consequence of the breach 
of contract. 
Putting things right
To put things right Secure Trust Bank PLC, trading as V12 Vehicle Finance must:
1. end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Miss W;
3. refund Miss Ws deposit contribution of £500;
4. refund Miss W all rentals for the period from 1 March 2023 to the date of settlement 
as she reasonably stopped using the car at this point;
5. refund Miss W 10% of the other rentals as directed above to cover any impaired use 
of the car because of the inherent quality issues;
6. refund Miss W £77.99 for the diagnostics she had carried out on 18 November 2022, 
upon receipt of evidence this has been paid by her and not already refunded. 
7. pay 8% simple yearly interest* on all refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
8. pay a further £150 for any distress and inconvenience thats been caused due to the 
faulty car;
9. remove any adverse information from Miss Ws credit file in relation to the 
agreement.
*If V12 considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss W how much tax its taken off. It should also give Miss W a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Secure Trust Bank PLC, trading as 
V12 Vehicle Finance to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman