DRN-1973304
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home buildings insurance with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
What happened
Mrs Ms insurance policy with RSA started in 2006. It initially cost £514 for the year. The next 
year, 2007, Mrs Ms insurance cost £544. In 2010, the last year RSA was the underwriter of 
the policy, it cost £586.
In 2017, Mrs M found she could get home insurance for about £200 for the year. At this time, 
Mrs M complained that shed been overcharged by RSA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the underwriter of the policy, RSA was responsible for setting the price between 2006 
and 2010. 
Mrs M says her mortgage company wouldnt let her choose her own insurer. But I disagree. 
Ive seen a copy of her mortgage offer from 2006, and it clearly states that she is not obliged 
to take out insurance through her mortgage company. While it was a condition of the 
mortgage that she had adequate buildings insurance in place, and provided a quote for 
insuring through RSA, this was clearly optional  subject to an annual administration fee to 
check her own insurance was adequate if she arranged cover herself.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mrs M fairly 
throughout the period she held its insurance policy.
If I find that RSA hasnt treated Mrs M fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be 
fair. But, in this case, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal. 
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this.
But where an insurer knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt 
engaging with the renewals process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated 
these consumers fairly. Theres no evidence that Mrs M engaged with the cost of the policy 
during the time she held the policy with RSA. But I dont think RSA took advantage of this to 
increase the price.
RSA has given us information about how it decided how much to charge Mrs M for her 
policy. Im afraid I cant share this as its commercially sensitive, but I would like to assure 
Mrs M that Ive carefully considered what RSA has provided.
From what Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA was setting Mrs Ms premiums unfairly. RSA 
has shown there were changes in its rates, its view of the risk of insuring Mrs Ms house and 
its understanding of future likely claims. These are all fair reasons for RSA to increase the 
premium. 
There were increases in three of the four years Mrs M held the policy, but none of those 
appear to be excessive. Theres nothing to suggest RSA was charging Mrs M more for her 
insurance just because shed had her policy with RSA for a long time and wasnt engaging 
with its cost.
In 2017, Mrs M was able to obtain insurance for much less than RSA charged. So, I fully 
understand why she thinks this indicates she was overcharged. But insurers often include 
discounts in order to obtain new customers. That means that a new customer will often be 
paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. 
In addition to this, insurance policies are not all the same  they have different levels of 
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions that can affect the price charged. And 
each insurers costs may vary depending on many things. 
Finally, the amount Mrs M was able to get insurance for in 2017 is unlikely to be a fair 
indicator of what she might have paid for insurance between 2006 and 2010. So, just 
because the policy with RSA cost a lot more than Mrs Ms new policy, that doesnt mean the 
amount charged by RSA was unfair.
Overall, having considered all the evidence, including what Mrs M has said, I dont think RSA 
treated her unfairly when setting the price of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman