DRN-2374213
The complaint
Miss V says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by phone in 2011 when Miss V called to 
activate her credit card. The policy gave Miss V accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss V disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here) I have based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, so on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Capital One sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss V says she definitely wasnt asked if she wanted PPI, she would have said no. It must 
have been added without her knowledge.  Capital One disputes this. It cant provide a call 
recording but thats not unreasonable or surprising given the time since the sale. It has 
provided the sales process and script that its adviser would have followed. This shows it 
would have been made clear the PPI was optional, and Miss V would need to have given her 
consent for the PPI to be added. She had already received her credit card when she called 
so I think she would have known the cover wasnt mandatory. 
I dont doubt Miss V is giving her honest recollections of the call but I also have to consider 
how long ago it was and how that might effect what she remembers. And I havent found 
enough other evidence to fairly conclude that the adviser didnt follow Capital Ones standard 
sales process and script.
Overall, I think its most likely Capital One made it clear to Miss V the PPI was optional, and 
she agreed to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss V, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable
for her. It was up to Miss V to decide whether the policy was right for her, bearing in mind 
her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Capital One didnt give Miss V all the information about the PPI that she needed
before she made her decision. But Miss V chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. 
The policy was apparently affordable and a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered.
Miss V had some savings and was entitled to less than three months sick pay. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12 months. It would have 
allowed her to use her savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for her future needs. So based on her circumstances at the time of this
sale, I think it unlikely Miss V wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss V because:
- Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss V about that. Because Capital One didnt tell
Miss V, that was unfair.
- To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all
of the cost of the PPI to Miss V.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss V any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman