DRN-3500058
The complaint
Miss O complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services (HRGCS) didnt send her monthly statements which led to her incurring late 
payment fees and impacted her credit score.
What happened
In October 2012, Miss O successfully applied for a credit card with HRGCS. In       
December 2021, she complained to HRGCS and said she hadnt been receiving paper 
statements and this had resulted in her incurring late payment fees. 
HRGCS issued its response to Miss Os complaint and said it stopped issuing paper 
statements to Miss O, as she opted in for electronic statements in October 2019. It said as 
Miss O had missed the payments for September, October and November 2021, it charged 
late payment fees correctly. It said it hadnt prevented Miss O from making payments on time 
and so it didnt uphold her complaint.
Unhappy with this, Miss O referred her complaint to this service. She said HRGCS didnt 
send her any statements by post or email and this led to her missing payments and incurring 
late payment fees. She also said she asked HRGCS how much she owed to clear the 
account and how much fees were owing, but she says it didnt provide this information to 
her. She also said her credit score had decreased as a result of the late payments and 
arrears reported by HRGCS to the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think HRGCS had done anything wrong. 
He said it had sent statements to Miss O by email as she had asked it to. And he said 
because Miss O had missed payments in September and October 2021, HRGCS sent her 
arrears letters by post. He also said Miss O made the November 2021 payment later than it 
was due. So he said HRGCS acted fairly when it applied the fees and charges to Miss Os 
account.
Miss O disagreed and said she still hadnt received any statements from HRGCS. She said 
even when she received later statements from them, she was unable to access them. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Os concerns and said HRGCS had sent a copy of the 
statements Miss O had requested in January 2022. And he said Miss O had registered for 
access to HRGCSs online account and its mobile app. So he was satisfied it had provided 
Miss O with alternative options to access her account.
As Miss O remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
This decision will only focus on the events that occurred before HRGCS issued its final 
response in December 2021. If Miss O is unhappy with any issues that occurred following 
the final response being issued, shell need to complain to HRGCS before this service can 
consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Miss O has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether HRGCS told Miss O she had missed payments 
owed under her agreement. If it didnt, Ill need to think about whats a fair way to put things 
right.
HRGCS has provided its internal system notes to show that, on 24 October 2019, Miss O 
requested electronic statements were issued to her. As per Miss Os communication 
request, this means HRGCS were required to send Miss O electronic statements. The notes 
confirm that paper statements are suppressed and only electronic statements will be sent. 
Ive seen a copy of the statements and I can see the statement dated 21 September 2021 
confirms that Miss O will need to make a minimum payment of £5.51. The statement dated 
21 October 2021 confirms that Miss O has arrears of £5.51 outstanding from the previous 
month as no payments had been made. It also confirms what Miss Os minimum payment 
that month is. Within the statement, it contains a Notice of Default Sums explaining that  
Miss O has been charged a £12 late payment fee. 
The statement dated 21 November 2021 confirms that no payments have been made by 
Miss O and that needs to pay arrears of £27.33 immediately in addition to a minimum 
payment due by 19 November 2021. It also contains a further Notice of Default Sums 
explaining that Miss O has been charged a £12 late payment fee. The statement dated      
21 December 2021 confirms that Miss O made a payment on 29 November 2021, but she 
still has arrears outstanding.
I can see that the statements were sent to the same email address that Miss O has provided 
to this service. So Im satisfied HRGCS complied with Miss Os request and that it sent Miss 
O the statements for September, October, November and December 2021 electronically. I 
also think the statements are clear and explain the amounts Miss O will need to pay and 
when she will need to pay them by. And they explain that failing to make a minimum 
payment may make it difficult for Miss O to obtain credit in the future. Given Miss O didnt 
make the required payments outlined in the statements, I dont think HRGCS acted unfairly 
when it applied late payment fees or reported missed payments to Miss Os credit file.
I acknowledge that Miss O says she didnt receive the statements by email or by post and 
she didnt know how much she owed. However, Im satisfied that these were sent to Miss O 
by post initially and then by email from November 2021. Ive seen HRGCSs system notes 
which confirm that no emails have been returned from Miss Os email address. And Ive 
seen copies of Notices of Sums in Arrears that were sent to Miss O by post on                    
29 October 2021, 8 November 2021 and 21 November 2021 by HRGCS explaining that she 
had missed payments. The postal statements and Notices of Sums in Arrears have been 
sent to the same address that Miss O has provided to this service.
Miss O has said that she told HRGCS she couldnt view her statements, but it didnt change 
her contact preferences. However, I cant see that Miss O requested that HRGCS change 
her statements to be sent by post until February 2022. Miss O has confirmed this was 
changed in Spring 2022.  
In light of this, Im satisfied HRGCS sent Miss O her statements and told her the amounts 
she needed to pay and by what date. And so it follows that I dont require HRGCS to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman