DRN-4108824
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided him with a transfer value 
which it failed to honour.
What happened
Mr A had a with profits pension policy which he took out in 1975 with Colonial Life (CML). 
CML is now the responsibility of Aviva and it is Aviva that is required to deal with this 
complaint. I shall refer to Aviva throughout this decision.
Mr A joined an occupational pension scheme in 1981 and he then stopped contributing to 
the policy with Aviva at that date.
In December 2021 Mr As independent financial adviser (IFA) asked Aviva to provide him 
with details about Mr As pension. The IFA was providing Mr A with advice about his 
retirement options.
Aviva responded to the request for information. It said that the transfer value of the policy 
was just under £5,000. The IFA continued to advise Mr A and in January 2022 he asked 
Aviva to issue its Retirement Options Pack (ROP) to him. Aviva sent the ROP dated 31 
January 2022. It included a Pension Summary statement which said that the transfer value 
was just over £15,500. One of the options (option 6) listed was a tax free cash sum of 
around £6,500 plus a joint life annuity of just under £1,000 per annum.
The IFA contacted Aviva to ask it about the increased valuation. It said it would look into the 
discrepancy and issue a new ROP. The new ROP was issued on 2 February 2022. The 
covering letter again said that the transfer value was just over £15,500 but included a 
Pension Summary which said the transfer value was just under £5,000. Option 6 in this 
pack was a tax free cash sum of just over £2,000 and a joint life annuity of around £340 per 
annum.
The IFA contacted Aviva on 8 February 2022 and stated that his client wished to take the 
tax free cash and joint life annuity which had been included in the ROP dated 31 January. 
Aviva said it couldnt do that because thered been a mistake in the ROP it had issued on 
31 January. It said it had incorrectly keyed Mr As wifes date of birth. Mr A complained to 
Aviva.
Aviva looked into his complaint. It said it had made a mistake when it issued the ROP on 31 
January 2022. It said it had incorrectly keyed Mr As wifes date of birth when it was 
carrying out the calculation. It had corrected that when it issued the new ROP on 2 
February.
Aviva accepted that the covering letter had still used the incorrect transfer value. But it said 
that the correct information was included in the Your Pension Summary document 
included with the new ROP and there was also a note on that document which said that the 
ROP dated 31 January should be ignored because of the error with the date of birth. Aviva 
acknowledged it had caused distress and inconvenience. It sent Mr A a cheque for £200 by 
way of compensation for what had happened.
Mr A did not accept what Aviva said. He returned its cheque for £200. Mr A said that Aviva 
had told the IFA that the reason for the discrepancy was because Mr A was entitled to a 
Demutualisation Termination bonus. Mr A referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said that having looked at all the evidence 
she was satisfied on balance that Aviva had made a mistake on 31 January 2022. It had 
miskeyed Mr As wifes date of birth. She said that one of the factors affecting the value of 
the pension was annuity rates and these were sensitive to both Mr As age and that of his 
wife. She thought Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably when it had offered to pay Mr A 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator. He said that the incorrect date of birth would not 
have accounted for the significant discrepancy in the value hed been given. He also said 
the date of birth Aviva had used was still not correct.
Because Mr A disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised a number of issues which Ill comment on below.
The information in the Retirement Pack dated 31 January 2022
There is no dispute that the information in this ROP stated that the transfer value 
for Mr As pension was just over £15,500. This was much more than what the IFA 
was expecting. So he telephoned Aviva on 1 February 2022 and asked for 
clarification.
Ive listened carefully to that call. Id just comment that during this call Aviva did not 
say that the information in the ROP dated 31 January was either correct or 
incorrect. Aviva told the IFA that it would get the calculation re-worked and get 
things clarified. Aviva said it would get this information sent out to the adviser the 
next day.
Aviva then sent a letter dated 2 February 2022. The front page of that letter again 
stated that the transfer value was just over £15,500. But, attached to the letter was 
a document entitled Your Pension Summary. The transfer value on that 
document was for the lower amount of almost £5,000. There was also a comment 
at the end of the document under the heading Please Note. It said:
Please ignore the letter sent on 31 January 2022. There is a calculation 
error. We have put wrong partners date of birth.The IFA subsequently phoned Aviva on 8 February 2022 to inform it that Mr A 
wanted to draw his pension. Aviva then checked the transfer value again and 
confirmed that the transfer value was the lower amount. It said it had clarified this 
in its letter of 2 February and it would not be able to pay out the higher amount.
Having looked at the sequence of events here, Im satisfied, on balance, that Aviva 
made an error in its ROP dated 31 January. But I wasnt satisfied with the 
explanation it provided for that error. So, I asked it to provide further detail about 
this.
Aviva provided our service with a copy of the information that was used to populate 
the ROP dated 31 January 2022. I noted that some of the information used in the 
calculation did not relate to Mr As policy  it related to a policy number held by a 
different unrelated policy holder.
Aviva has now accepted that the information it provided about an error keying the 
spouses date of birth is incorrect. The correct reason was that it had erroneously 
input some details which related to a different policy number, when calculating 
Mr As transfer value. As the IFA had already noted, it was unlikely that an error 
keying the date of birth would have accounted for the difference in value.
The Demutualisation Termination Bonus
Mr A thought there might be another reason for the difference in the transfer 
values. He thought he may have been entitled to a Demutualisation Termination 
Bonus payable to certain policy holders in lieu of shares when CML demutualised. 
He says Aviva told his IFA on 8 February that this was probably the reason for the 
difference.
I havent seen anything to support what Mr A has said about Aviva telling his IFA 
he may have been entitled to a Demutualisation bonus. Ive listened to the calls on 
1 February and 8 February and there was nothing said by Aviva during either of 
these calls to support what Mr A claims was said.
I have looked at the letter Aviva sent Mr As IFA dated 23 December 2021 in 
response to his request for information. That letter included a table which set out 
details about Mr As policy including the transfer value and information about plan 
bonuses. Under Plan Bonuses three bonuses are referred to  Terminal Bonus, 
Demutualisation Bonus and Integrated Drawdown option. Against each of these 
bonus types the word No has been entered to indicate that Mr As plan did not 
attract any of these bonuses.
Attached to the letter was a glossary. It included the following:
Demutualisation Termination Bonus  applies to certain Winterthur (former 
Colonial Mutual) policies only. Before Winterthur acquired Colonial Mutual 
that company had demutualised in June 1997. Former Colonial Mutual 
policies were entitled to shares in the demutualised company. Some 
received shares, but for others, the value of the shares the policy holder was 
entitled to was added to their pension fund as an additional policy.Aviva says Mr As policy type does not qualify for any bonus. This is in line with 
what it said in its letter dated 23 December 2021.
Whilst I can understand why Mr A wanted to try to find rational explanations for the 
higher valuation hed been given, Ive provisionally decided theres no evidence to 
indicate that his policy did qualify for the bonus he has referred to. I also think that 
if Mr A was entitled, when CML demutualised, to have the value of the shares in 
the former CML added to his pension fund as an additional policy he would be 
able to provide documentation to support that view - such as correspondence from 
CML at the time. He hasnt provided any documentation to that effect.
Has Mr A suffered financial loss?
Having considered everything, whilst it is unacceptable that Aviva provided 
incorrect information and then didnt provide the correct reason for its error, Im not 
persuaded that Mr A has suffered any financial loss as a result of what happened. 
Ill explain why.
Where a business makes an error, its not our role to fine or punish it. Our role is to 
look at whether the businesss error caused the consumer, in this case Mr A, to 
suffer any loss.
As mentioned above, although Mr A was given incorrect information in the ROP 
dated 31 January 2022, and although that information was repeated (albeit only in 
part of the letter dated 8 February 2002), I havent seen any evidence to show that 
Mr A acted on the information to his detriment or that he experienced any financial 
loss as a result of reliance on that information.
I say that because the IFA was doubtful about the accuracy of the information in 
the ROP dated 31 January 2022. The transfer value was significantly more than 
the previous quotation hed received. That was why he telephoned Aviva as soon 
as he received the ROP. When he spoke to Aviva on 1 February it said it would 
have to get the information clarified and it issued its clarification letter the next day. 
As mentioned above, Aviva did not tell him during this call that he could rely on the 
information in the ROP dated 31 January.
I agree that the clarification letter, issued the next day, was ambiguous. But I think 
that if Mr A had looked in detail at the information in the Your Pension Summary 
attached to that letter, he wouldve been aware that the information in the ROP 
dated 31 January 2022 was incorrect. Ive noted that the transfer value and the 
information under Option 6 (which was the option Mr A wanted to select) were 
corrected on the Your Pension Summary document issued on 2 February 2022. 
There was also a note at the end of that document to say that the ROP dated 31 
January should be ignored. This was confirmed to the IFA again when he 
telephoned Aviva on 8 February 2022 to inform it that Mr A wanted to select option 
6. Aviva then sent a further letter dated 9 February confirming the position.
So, although there was an error on the ROP dated 31 January, Im satisfied that 
Mr A did not rely on that information or that he suffered any financial loss as a 
result. The IFA queried the information in the ROP immediately and the next day 
the Your Pension Summary document was issued which included the correct 
information. When the IFA telephoned on 8 February, his instructions were not accepted and he was referred again to the Your Pension Summary document 
issued on 2 February.
Distress and Inconvenience
I can understand why Mr A has complained about what happened.
It is fair and reasonable to expect a business, especially when it is providing 
valuations for someone who is considering their retirement options, to provide 
information that is accurate and complete. On this occasion the information in the 
ROP dated 31 January 2022 was not accurate and not enough care was taken by 
Aviva when it issued its clarification on 2 February to make sure that the 
information on the covering letter was accurate. It also didnt correctly identify what 
the cause of the error was. And I think that reasonably caused Mr A to
look for other explanations as to why he may have been entitled to a greater 
transfer value. Aviva has only recently confirmed that the error was caused 
because it erroneously input some information which related to a different policy 
holder, when calculating the transfer value for the ROP dated 31 January.
For the reasons set out above, Ive provisionally decided that the information in the 
ROP dated 31 January 2022 was incorrect. Although Ive decided, on balance, that 
Mr A didnt suffer any financial loss as a result, I am persuaded that Avivas error 
caused him to experience distress and inconvenience. Aviva has accepted that.
Mr A was led to believe  albeit for a relatively short period of time - that his 
transfer value was considerably more than it actually was. And he has spent time 
trying to find out the reasons why he should believe that the information he was 
given was erroneous. Hes been given an incorrect reason  on several occasions 
- for that error. Aviva has offered to pay him £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result. Having looked at everything, Ive 
provisionally decided that is not enough. I think Aviva should pay Mr A £400 (in 
total) for the distress and inconvenience he experienced here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Ive provisionally decided to uphold this complaint 
about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. I intend to require it to take the following 
actions:
  Pay Mr A £400 (in total) for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
here as a result of what happened.
Aviva responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add and it 
accepted my provisional decision.
Mr A also responded to my provisional decision. By way of summary he said:
Although he wasnt sure of the date or time of the call, his IFA was clear in 
his own mind that Aviva had told him Mr As pension could qualify for the 
termination bonus and that could be why there was a discrepancy in the 
value that had been quoted.Aviva had treated him very poorly by providing incorrect information about 
why the error had arisen. He also said hed asked Aviva for a copy of his 
original application but it still hadnt provided this to him.
He could not understand how Aviva could have made such an error as to 
input incorrect information from another policyholders plan.
His IFA had spent time putting his advice and recommendations together 
which then had to be changed due to Avivas mistakes. He said this had not 
been factored into consideration when the provisional decision stated that 
Mr A had not suffered any loss.
He asked for the compensation payment of £400 to be paid to him.
 
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr As IFA says he has a clear recollection of being told by Aviva that Mr A may 
qualify for the demutualisation termination bonus, I havent been provided with any evidence 
which supports this. Mr A accepts that without supporting evidence it is impossible to 
determine what the IFA may have been told. And, for the reasons stated in my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded, on balance, that he did qualify for a demutualisation termination 
bonus.
Ive also considered what Mr A has told us about the additional time he says his IFA spent 
putting together advice and recommendations which had to be changed due to Avivas 
mistakes. 
I said in my provisional decision I was satisfied that neither Mr A nor his IFA had relied on 
the incorrect information that had been provided. I noted that the IFA had queried the 
information as soon as he received it and Aviva had issued a letter the next day which did 
include the corrected information on the Your Pension Summary document. I also 
commented that Aviva did not tell the IFA, when he contacted it, that he could rely on the 
information in the ROP dated 31 January.
In these circumstances, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to say that Aviva should be liable 
for any advice or recommendations the IFA prepared which were based on the incorrect 
information - after hed immediately queried that information and been sent the corrected 
Your Pension Summary document the next day. 
I remain of the view that because of Avivas errors here and its failure to correctly identify 
and explain the reason for its errors, Mr A has experienced distress and inconvenience. I 
thought Aviva should pay him £400 (in total) by way of compensation. Aviva has accepted 
what I said in my provisional decision and Mr A has asked that the compensation should be 
paid to him. So I havent changed my view, as set out in the provisional decision, about the 
action that Aviva needs to take to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
I now require it to take the following action:  Pay Mr A £400 (in total) for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
here as a result of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman