DRN-3836998
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that QIC Europe Limited unfairly rejected their claim under a 
buildings insurance policy.
Both Mr and Mrs C are named policyholders on their QIC policy, so any claim or complaint is 
brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr C, Ill refer mainly to Mr C from here onward.
QIC used a third party company to handle Mr Cs claim and most of his correspondence has 
been with this company rather than directly with QIC. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to QIC includes its agents, including the claims handling company.
What happened
Mr C had home insurance with QIC, bought through an insurance intermediary. In May 2022, 
their water supplier contacted them to say it believed there was a mains water leak at their 
property. A local building contractor traced the source of the leak. He discovered a 
previously unknown stop tap under decking in the garden, around 100 yards from the house. 
He repaired the leak and Mr C made a claim on his insurance.
QIC didnt accept the claim. It told Mr C his builders report showed the leak was caused by 
damage to the stop tap occurring gradually over time, and this type of gradual damage was 
excluded by his policy. Mr C didnt agree so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the mains leak happened gradually over time, as set out in the builders report. This 
meant it isnt covered by the accidental damage part of Mr and Mrs Cs policy. She thought 
QICs decision to decline the claim was fair. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says the water leak at his property should be covered by the accidental damage to 
mains services part of his policy (Section 1.13). Accidental damage is defined as Sudden, 
unexpected and physical damage which happens at a specific time; and was not deliberate; 
and was caused by something external and identifiable. There are some general exclusions 
to this cover, including loss or damage due to wear and tear or gradual deterioration.
Mr Cs builders report is incredibly helpful. It sets out clearly and in detail the steps he took 
to trace and repair the leak. A key point is his expert opinion on the cause of the leak: the 
O ring on one side was found to be fractured and that side of the fitting misshaped and 
distorted, it was concluded that the weight of the brick built encloser surrounding the stop tap 
had pushed the pipe down over time and caused the failure.
I think this is clear. This wasnt a sudden, one-off event. It was a gradual process caused by 
the brick enclosure pushing down the pipe over time. As QIC says, thats excluded under 
Mr Cs policy terms.
Mr C doesnt agree. He says, in summary:
An accident must have caused the damage at a certain specific point during a three 
month period when meter readings show his water usage increased by 400%. 
This must have been caused by either falling masonry or some movement of the 
wooden decking. 
In any event, neither he nor QIC can be sure if the leak was caused by a single event 
or gradually. The benefit of the doubt should be given to the policyholder.
Im afraid I dont agree with Mr C. His builders conclusion is clear and unambiguous. The O 
ring failure was a gradual process, not a sudden event. 
Mr C is unhappy that QIC declined his claim without ever visiting his home. I understand why 
hed be upset by this. However, by the time QIC had instructed its own surveyor, the leak 
had been repaired. Its natural that Mr C would have wanted the issue repaired as soon as 
possible, however once the stop tap had been repaired there was no reason for QICs 
surveyor to investigate. And in this case Im satisfied that QIC could reasonably rely on Mr 
Cs builders assessment of the problem. So this doesnt affect my decision. Even if QICs 
surveyor had attended and inspected the repairs, it doesnt change the fact that the damage 
happened gradually, and QICs decision would have been the same.
Finally, as our investigator explained, the leak isnt covered by the trace and access part of 
their policy either because there was no damage to their home.
I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision and I sympathise with them. But 
Im satisfied the damage isnt covered by their policy and QICs decision to decline their 
claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman