DRN-2581752
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that a claim he made under his buildings insurance policy with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) was declined. He believes the damage to his roof 
happened, and was caused by, a storm. He would like RSA to reimburse him for the repair 
costs. 
What happened
Mr W has told us that in early 2020 his roof was damaged during a named storm. He has 
described the damage as tiles being chipped, cracked, pitted, and splinted, with slivers of 
tiles having washed down into the guttering. He has told us that around 35% of the 
northwest elevation of the roof was damaged, but there was no damage on the opposite 
elevation.
Mr W has told us he cleaned out the guttering, but didnt consider there was any real risk of 
water getting into his home, so didnt take any further action at the time. However, later in 
the summer he noticed the roof had deteriorated further and there were more tile pieces in 
the guttering and down pipe. He arranged for a roofing business to clear the gutters and 
organised quotes for repair.
In the autumn of 2020 Mr W made a claim to RSA for the damage to his roof and the cost of 
the repairs that needed to be completed. 
RSA arranged for a surveyor to assess the damage to Mr Ws roof. Having done so, it 
declined the claim. The surveyors conclusion was that the damage was not consistent with 
what would be expected to have been caused by a storm. Rather the splitting and 
deterioration was from a natural breakdown of the material of the tiles.  Mr W didnt agree 
with RSAs conclusion about the damage and complained. In the meantime, however, he 
had the repairs done to the roof. 
The complaint was considered by RSA, but it didnt change its decision to decline the claim. 
It explained that the policy only covered damage if it was caused by a single identifiable 
incident which directly caused the loss or damage. It also highlighted the policy didnt cover 
loss or damage caused by wear and tear. It was satisfied the damage had been noticed after 
a storm, but it didnt believe it was the dominant cause of the damage. In addition, it didnt 
believe the damage had been caused by a one-off event, but rather it was caused by wear 
and tear, which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr W wasnt happy with RSAs position and referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr W 
didnt accept this and highlighted that the tiles were relatively new, and the roof hadnt been 
damaged before the storm. When the investigator asked if Mr W had any expert opinion, he 
confirmed hed only the comments of a contractor who had said it could be weathering and 
also the storm. 
Mr W provided further comment after considering the investigators view. He said the aspect 
of the roof and his comments about it often not getting enough sunlight to dry, shouldnt 
affect the lifespan of tiles on a roof such that it would reduce it from 60 years to 20 years. He 
postulated how further damage could have been caused after initial chipping of corners or 
cracking caused by hail. He was also unhappy with how RSAs surveyor had assessed the 
roof and believed a second inspection should have been scheduled because he had 
disagreed with the surveyors findings. 
The investigator considered Mr Ws further comments, but he wasnt persuaded to alter his 
conclusions. He also acknowledged Mr Ws comment the methods the surveyor had used, 
but confirmed the use of a pole camera was due to health and safety concerns and it was 
acceptable for such photographs to be used for the purposes of assessing claims. 
Mr W remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for decision. He subsequently provided a timeline of events and 
further comment on the inspection RSA had completed and its consideration of the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accept there were storm conditions around the time Mr W has said he first 
noticed damage to his roof, so I wont comment on that issue further. The next question is 
whether the damage reported at that time, of which there is no photographic evidence, was 
caused by the storm or not.
Mr W described the damage as chipped, cracked, pitted, splinted tiles, with slivers of tiles 
having washed down into the gutters. Mr W appears to believe the damage was caused by 
hail being driven by high winds into the tiles. He also confirmed the damage which was 
photographed later in the year was similar to that which was present when the damage was 
first noticed. RSA doesnt think the damage was caused by the storm, but rather believes the 
tiles had deteriorated before the storm, and it merely highlighted that deterioration. 
We have already explained that we rely on expert evidence, and in this case, the only expert 
report we have says that the nature of the damage to the roof is not what would be expected 
from a storm. That which could possibly have been caused by a storm would be cracks 
through the thickness of the tile or chips at the lower edges, from the tile being lifted by 
winds and dropped. However, such damage could also have been caused by general 
deterioration and weathering. In addition, the photographs of the damaged tiles show that all 
of the tiles are in place  they have not slipped or been displaced, which would be common 
for storm damage where physical damage had been caused to a tile. 
Rather, the majority of the damage seems to be the exposed surfaces of the tiles having 
detached in some way. In some cases, almost all the exposed surface of the tile had 
detached. This is not the type of damage that a storm would cause. It is more in line with the 
type of damage caused by long-term weathering and the action of moisture and freezing. In 
addition, some of this damage appears fresh, with surfaces of a clean, bright colour, but on 
other tiles the damage looks older as it has weathered to a darker colour more inline with 
other undamaged tiles. In light of this, I find RSAs expert report persuasive. Indeed, I note 
that when our investigator spoke to Mr W, he confirmed his contractor had said the damage 
could have been caused by weathering.
I have noted Mr Ws comments about the age of his roof. I accept that it is unusual for a roof 
of the age of his to deteriorate significantly. However, each roof will age at its own rate and 
the position and exposure will affect its lifespan. It will also depend on the type of materials 
used and the quality of those materials will determine how they will be affected.I note Mr W isnt happy with the inspection RSA had done. I would agree that the inspection 
would not fulfil the requirements of a RICS building survey, but it didnt purport to. RSA 
needed an assessment completed of the damage that was being claimed for, not a full 
building survey of Mr Ws home. The assessment that was done, and the methods used, 
were in line with normal industry practice and provided the information on the damage that 
was needed for RSA to make a reasoned decision about the claim. 
I know this will disappoint Mr W, but I dont consider RSA acted inappropriately when it 
declined his claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
12 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman