DRN-4077191
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the amount West Bay Insurance Plc paid in settlement of a claim 
he made under his commercial motor insurance (van) policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr L is unhappy with the valuation placed on his 
van following a total loss claim under his policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls claim should be upheld. She said West Bay had reached 
its valuation using the same recognised motor industry trade guides our service typically 
relies on when assessing complaints about motor valuations. So, she thought it had reached 
a fair valuation. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Ls policy covers him for the market value of his van, at the time of loss  which is 
fairly standard within the motor insurance industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing the insured vehicle (including permanently fitted accessories) 
with one of the same or similar make, model, year, mileage, and condition which 
applied immediately before any loss or damage

The market value will be assessed by an automotive engineer in conjunction with the 
published trade guides at the time of loss
West Bay initially deemed the market value of Mr Ls van to be £9,985. But this was later 
increased to £10,931 following a review from one of its engineers. West Bay says the 
information it used to reach the final figure of £10,931 came from its engineer and from two 
of the recognised motor industry guides for obtaining motor valuations. 
Mr L complains that the valuation placed on his van by West Bay is too low. He says he 
is unable to replace his van with one of a similar make and model for that amount. 
Our investigator obtained her own valuations from the motor trade guides our service 
typically uses when assessing complaints about motor valuations. She used the correct 
mileage and date of loss when obtaining these valuations, which provided the following 
market value figures:
Glasss: £10,320
CAP (inc optional extras): £8,450
Cazoo (formerly Cazana): £14,416
AutoTrader: unable to provide a valuation
Our services normal approach, in these types of complaints, considers that a valuation 
within the range of valuations returned by the trade guides is typically fair. In this particular 
case, theres a fair amount of variance between the valuations returned by the motor trade 
guides, so in order for West Bays valuation to be fair, I would expect it to be around the 
average of the guides.
The average of the valuations above is £11,062 and West Bays valuation was £10,931. 
Based on this, I consider that West Bays valuation is fair and reasonable, as it is within the 
range of the valuations returned by the trade guides and is broadly in line (99%) with the 
average of those valuations.
 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ls view that the motor trade guides are out of date and are 
paid for by the motor industry. Because of this he says a truer and fairer reflection of market 
value is advertised sale prices on motor trade websites. But I dont agree with Mr L on this 
point.
I say this because the motor trade guides are independent from the insurance industry, and 
from one another. Our service finds these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures all of 
which are updated regularly. The guides also take into account regional variations. Were 
confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market value of a vehicle.
Ive carefully considered the adverts highlighted by Mr L. Unfortunately, some of the links he 
provided to West Bay no longer work. But the one that does, includes several similar vans 
advertised at higher prices than the valuation arrived at by West Bay. However, Im mindful 
that most of these vans have different registration years, significantly lower mileage or 
slightly different specifications than Mr Ls van, all of which are likely to have an impact on 
the advertised price and which wouldnt necessarily be line with his policy definition of 
market value.
I should also point out that our service typically finds the motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts because advertised prices are often the starting point of a 
negotiation and are what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price the 
vehicle actually sells for. So, based on the above, I dont find the adverts provided by Mr L to 
be more persuasive than the motor trade guides.Ive also considered the screenshot Mr L has provided from, what he says is, a trade login 
for AutoTrader. This shows a valuation for his van at £13,908. I appreciate this is higher than 
West Bays valuation but Im also conscious that its from April 2023, rather than from the 
date of loss, which could be impacting the figure returned. Its also not clear to me whether 
this tool is similar to the trade guides, or whether it provides an estimate based on advertised 
prices on AutoTrader  which Ive already explained I dont find as persuasive as the trade 
guides. And Ive not been able to obtain a valuation using the usual AutoTrader trade guide 
our service has access to. So, in these circumstances, this information hasnt persuaded me 
that West Bays valuation is unfair or unreasonable either. 
I can see that Mr Ls initial complaint to West Bay included concerns about the time it took to 
assess his claim. West Bay accepted its service had fallen short and paid Mr L £50 
compensation. Based on everything Ive seen, I think West Bays handling of this element of 
Mr Ls complaint was fair and reasonable, so I wont be directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman