DRN-3731856
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way he was treated by staff at a branch of Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) when he went in to withdraw money and is unhappy Nationwide has 
closed his account.
What happened
On 24 June 2022 Mr A visited a branch of Nationwide to withdraw cash from his account 
held with it. During the visit Mr As bank card was lost. Staff checked the counter and 
surrounding area and Mr A was asked to check his pockets but refused believing it was the 
staff member serving him who lost his card. Nationwide said its staff continued looking for 
the card after Mr A left but it wasnt found. Nationwide informed Mr A could still withdraw 
funds without the card at the branch and a new bank card was ordered and a complaint was 
raised on the same day. 
Mr A called Nationwide several times in the evening and in the days following as he believed 
it was Nationwides bank teller who lost his card. Nationwides call notes record that during 
the calls Mr A made racist comments and made threats to harm staff as well as telling staff 
that when he got home he was so angry that he smashed several items in his home.
On review of the complaint and phone calls Nationwide took the decision to close all of Mr 
As accounts immediately and sent Mr A a final response letter explaining this on 28 June 
2022. Nationwide gave Mr A 14 days notice that his accounts would be closed on 13 July 
2022.
Nationwide sent a further letter dated 4 July 2022 confirming that it was going to be closing 
Mr As accounts as it felt their banking relationship had broken down irretrievably and asked 
that Mr A withdraw all remaining balances by 13 July and that any remaining balances would 
be sent to him by cheque. Nationwide closed all Mr As accounts on 14 July.
On 21 July Mr A called Nationwide and informed it that he hadnt received a cheque for the 
remaining balances of his accounts. Nationwide arranged for Mr A to visit a branch so it 
could put a stop and replace on the cheque so Mr A could pay this into his new account 
elsewhere.
Mr A says that on his visit to the branch that Nationwide staff didnt speak to him properly or 
treat him with respect and asked unwarranted questions which made him angry. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Nationwide had closed Mr As accounts in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and didnt think Nationwide had treated Mr A unfairly. 
Mr A disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  that Nationwide staff treated him badly and unfairly 
closed his account. Our rules allow me to do that.
My role is to look at the problems Mr A has experienced and see if Nationwide has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr A back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
As has already been explained by our adjudicator as a general rule Nationwide isnt obliged 
to continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to  providing banking 
facilities and to who is a commercial decision and not something for me to get involved with.
That being said it wouldnt be fair for Nationwide to close Mr As account outside the terms 
and conditions of the account or without reasonable notice.
The terms and conditions of the account say that Nationwide is able to close an account 
immediately if:
you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff
Having reviewed Mr As account of events where he himself admits he was angry and 
Nationwides call logs and transcripts I am satisfied that Mr A did act in a threatening and 
abusive way including using racist language and making direct threats towards Nationwide 
staff and therefore it was entitled to close Mr As accounts in line with the terms and 
conditions. 
And based on the evidence Im not persuaded Nationwide treated Mr A unfairly. When his 
card was lost it ordered a new one the same day and ensured Mr A understood he could still 
withdraw funds from within the branch. And when it took the decision to close his accounts it 
gave Mr A 14 days notice so he could have time to make alternative banking arrangements 
as well as ensuring the balances on Mr As accounts were paid to him. 
So after considering everything I do not uphold Mr As complaint as Im not persuaded 
Nationwide treated Mr A badly or unfairly when it closed Mr As accounts in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman