DRN-3547909
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy with the decision by Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltd trading as CGICE to decline her pet insurance claim. 
CGICE are the underwriters of this policy. Any reference to their actions includes the actions 
of their agents. Miss E has been joined in this complaint by a representative. In my decision 
Ill only refer to Miss E, the policy holder.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss E and CGICE. I wont repeat in  
detail what is already known to both parties and not in dispute. In my decision Ill mainly 
focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Miss E took out a pet insurance policy for her dog on 2 September 2021. On 17 September 
2021 she took her dog to the vet. The dog required further treatment and she raised a claim 
on her insurance policy.
CGICE declined the claim as they said, the illness was noted within the first 14 days of the 
policy start date. Miss E made a complaint to CGICE which they didnt uphold. Remaining 
unhappy, she referred her complaint to our Service for an Independent review. Our 
investigator recommended that the complaint not be upheld. Miss E didnt accept the 
investigators recommendations so the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
It's also relevant and important to state here that the approach of our Service isnt the same 
as a Court of Law. I say this because a representative on behalf of Miss E has made 
numerous references to what conclusions a Court of Law might reach. Miss E has asked our 
Service to consider the complaint - not a Court of Law. But of course, she still retains that 
option.
Our Service does of course consider the law. But its one of a number of considerations 
including - but not limited to; good industry practice and overall whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint. In scenarios where theres disagreement over what has 
happened, the approach I have to take is to decide what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened  based on the available evidence. That is different to the test in a Court of 
Law.
The starting point with any insurance claim is the policy holder (Miss E) has to be able to 
prove her loss (claim). This means CGICE needs to be reasonably satisfied that the loss and 
circumstances of the claim happened as Miss E has described.
Has CGICE fairly considered this claim in line with the policy terms?
CGICE declined the claim relying on the following terms:
You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing 
or if it were to arise within the first 14 days from the policy start date or 5 days in the 
event of an accident, and 
What Is Not Insured?
Any claim made within, or relating to the applicable Waiting Period
The waiting period was 14 days from the start of the policy. Im satisfied the relevant policy 
literature made this clear. This isnt an unusual term and generally the standard across most 
insurance policies as it also allows the policy holder a 14 day window, or a cooling off 
period to change their mind about taking the policy out.  
In summary, CGICE are saying that the condition Miss E brought her dog to the vet for either 
predated the start of the policy, or first showed symptoms within the first 14 days of the start 
of the policy  which began on 2 September 2021. 
Miss E on the other hand has told us that her dog had been for a walk on 17 September 
2021 and she noticed one of its legs slightly bowed. She booked an appointment with the 
vet on the same day. Ive considered the medical notes from that visit:
Sometimes [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] limping on LH leg. 
Concerned re appearance of leg.
Examination: LH bowed/bandy appearance
The notes arent particularly detailed. Miss E has recently told us that due to the time thats 
passed, shes been unable to get additional correspondence from the vet and they simply 
cannot remember. This isnt supportive of Miss Es complaint as it means the notes havent 
been clarified or no further detail added. Therefore, Ive had to consider what is available as 
evidence. 
Ive highlighted the use of the word sometimes above. I find this important as a reasonable 
interpretation of its use is that some of the time, or occasionally - the dog has a limp on that 
leg. Additionally, the notes indicate that Miss E is concerned about how the leg appears. No 
accident or sudden injury has been detailed that could reasonably explain a sudden change 
in the appearance of the leg.
Miss E has described only noticing symptoms on that day (17 September) and, in response 
to our investigators view, said the dog had been subject to other check-ups by a vet prior to 
17 September - yet nothing was ever flagged. Again, no evidence has been provided to 
support this to either CGICE or our Service during the course of the claim or complaint. 
The dog was seen by a vet again on 22 September. In the notes from that appointment its 
stated:Very bowed hindlimb gait, some ataxia. Sudden onset lameness LH noted last   
week
This supports what Miss E has said about only noting the lameness the previous week 
(17 September), but it adds that one of the dogs legs is very bowed. I dont find CGICEs 
position unreasonable (given the condition that was later diagnosed), that this may have 
been evident before 17 September. Ive noted Miss E has argued that, on average, the 
condition diagnosed here is usually diagnosed at around 8 months. If taken to be accurate, 
this will mean that some dogs are diagnosed much earlier and some much later. Miss Es 
dog was around 5 months old. 
A specialist seen the dog on 4 October 2021. The condition diagnosed can typically affect 
this breed of dog. Importantly, in these notes the specialist refers to a 3 week history of 
lameness and abnormal hindlimb conformation. Three weeks prior would place the 
onset/symptoms within the 14 day waiting period at the start of the policy. Miss E has 
explained that the vet possibly rounded up, to a full week. 
Another note from 4 October states; noticed around [bold for emphasis by Ombudsman] 17 
September. Again, this suggests that the symptoms couldve been prior to 17 September. 
Ultimately, its not the role of our Service to determine when exactly symptoms first 
appeared. Our role here is to decide if the insurer has investigated the claim and reached 
their decision fairly and reasonably - based on all of the evidence. 
On balance, Im reasonably satisfied that CGICE has fairly and reasonably looked into and 
considered the claim before deciding to decline it  in line with the policy terms. The vets 
notes, including the use of sometimes and around point towards a scenario where 
symptoms possibly existed earlier than 17 September 2021 and Ive seen no strong 
supporting evidence from Miss E to allow me to conclude that CGICE have acted 
unreasonably here when considering the claim as theyve done. 
Other points made by Miss E
Miss E has referred to online reviews of the insurer highlighting issues with how they handle 
claims. Online reviews, if taken at face value, will reflect a particular customers experience 
of a particular business. For example, a few bad online reviews of a restaurant doesnt mean 
that every single customer who eats at that restaurant will experience bad service or poor 
food. Online reviews dont form part of my consideration here.
In this particular case Ive found that CGICE fairly and reasonably considered the claim 
before choosing to decline it  for the reasons Ive explained.
I acknowledge that my decision will disappoint Miss E, but it brings to an end what our 
Service in trying to informally resolve her dispute with CGICE - can do for her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman