DRN-3995141
The complaint
A company Ill call V complains that Santander UK PLC is withholding the balance of its 
account.
V is represented by its director, Mr S.
What happened
Santander blocked Vs account in 2019. Mr S raised a complaint with our service at the time, 
which our service didnt uphold. Our investigator at that time said Santander was acting in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations in blocking Vs account, and that it hadnt treated 
V unfairly. Because our service has already considered that complaint, this decision will only 
address matters that have arisen since 20 February 2020 (being the date our investigator 
issued his findings), or that werent dealt with by the previous investigator.
Mr S came to our service again in June 2022, saying he had been told he needed to submit 
proof of entitlement relating to the funds held in his account. Mr S said he wasnt told this 
previously and that he was unhappy that his account was being charged £7.50 per month, 
despite the fact that he didnt have access to it. Mr S wanted Santander to release the full 
balance of the account and pay him compensation.
Our investigator looked at Vs complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said Santander had 
reviewed the documents Mr S had submitted as proof of Vs entitlement to the funds, but that 
it had not accepted that those documents showed Vs entitlement to the funds. She said 
Santander had explained to Mr S that it needed credible independent confirmation that [his] 
business has repaid or completed the trading activity such that no customer has losses or 
unpaid returns. And she wasnt satisfied that Mr S had complied with Santanders request.
Our investigator noted that Santander had paid V £100 in compensation for not asking for 
proof of entitlement sooner, and felt that was fair compensation in the circumstances. She 
noted that Vs account would have remained frozen regardless of when Santander asked for 
proof of entitlement, given Mr S was unable to satisfy Santanders requirements.
However, our investigator did feel Santander should refund the monthly account fee to the 
account because V hadnt had access to the account since February 2019. So, she said 
Santander should refund the fees to Vs account (not to V or Mr S) and that it shouldnt 
charge further fees to the account while it remained blocked.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings. He said he couldnt see who had paid V what 
as he no longer had access to Vs statements online. And that he would have been able to 
check that and therefore submit the required proof, had he been told he needed to provide 
proof of entitlement sooner.
At first, Santander also didnt accept our investigators findings. It said it wasnt possible to 
stop the fees while the account remains open, and that it couldnt refund the historic fees 
because more will continue to be debited. But it later agreed to refund the fees to the 
account.
Because no agreement could be reached, the case came to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do.  
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Mr S and Santander have said, before reaching my decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but Im not persuaded Santander has treated V unfairly, or that 
its actions/omissions are the reasons V was unable to comply with its requests for proof of 
entitlement.
In a letter dated 17 May 2022, Santander told Mr S that it needed to see credible 
independent confirmation that his business has repaid or completed the trading activity such 
that no customer has losses or unpaid returns. And our investigator told Mr S to provide 
evidence of how the balance held in Vs account came to be, such as bills, invoices and 
contracts. And Im satisfied that those requests were sufficiently clear to enable Mr S to 
submit the evidence Santander requested.
It is not our services duty to assess whether or not what Mr S has submitted is sufficient. 
That is for Santander to determine, in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and in line 
with its own procedures. Our services role is to determine whether or not Santander has 
acted reasonably in assessing the evidence Mr S has supplied. Santander has explained to 
our service why it isnt satisfied with the evidence Mr S has provided, and Im satisfied with 
its explanation, taking into account all of the evidence it has shown our service relating to the 
full history of this case.
In light of Santanders explanation, Im not persuaded any delay in expressly asking for proof 
of entitlement caused any detriment to V. And Im satisfied it was perfectly possible for V to 
satisfy Santanders requirements at any time, by submitting proof of entitlement to the funds 
in the account. Santanders requirements are not unreasonable, and it is entitled to request 
the information it has in the circumstances of this complaint. And because Im not persuaded 
Santander made an error here, it follows that I wont ask it to increase the compensation it 
has already paid to V (£100).
I havent detailed Santanders full submission in this decision, because Santander isnt 
obliged to disclose the reasons for its actions to Mr S. And I see no reason why I would 
compel it to do so in this particular case. 
Account fees
Because Santander accepts our investigators findings on this point, its not necessary for 
me to make any findings, save to formalise the requirement for Santander to refund the 
charges. 
And for the avoidance of doubt, I accept its reasonable for Santander to refund the fees to the account, and not to V directly. Im satisfied Santander isnt obliged to release the account 
balance to V, for the reasons Ive already set out. And the fees were deducted from the 
account balance, so returning the fees to the account puts V back in the position it would 
have been in had Santander not taken those fees: i.e. its account balance is the same as it 
would have been, had Santander not charged the fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK PLC must refund the monthly charges of £7.50 that it 
has applied to Vs account since February 2019. The fees should be refunded to Vs 
account. Santander should not charge further such fees while the account is blocked, or, if 
that is not possible, should ensure any fees that are charged are refunded to the account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman