DRN-4271686
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) refuses to refund him money he says he 
lost as a result of a scam.
Mr M is represented by CEL Solicitors in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In January 2022, Mr M says a person purporting to be from BlockChain had telephoned him.  
He says this person informed him that an investment he (Mr M) had made in 2014 had 
accrued a profit of £79,000.  Thereafter, Mr M explains that he was persuaded to make 
several payments (see below) in order to be able to release his investment funds.  Due to 
not being able to withdraw these funds, Mr M says he later discovered he had been 
scammed.
Mr M informed HSBC about the above and requested a refund.  As HSBC declined to do 
this, Mr M raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it in part: asking HSBC to 
refund Mr M the £6,000 payment he made on 27 January 2022, and all those thereafter (see 
below).  Mr M accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC did not.  In short, HSBC said 
that it did not act in error, and even if it had, Mr M should share some responsibility for his 
losses.
As an agreement could not be reached, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
The payments in question according to Mr M are as follows:
Debits:
Date Merchant Payment Method Amount
26 Jan 2022 W (payment service 
provider)Card £250.75
26 Jan 2022 S (cryptocurrency 
exchange)Card £430
26 Jan 2022 W Card £3,009.00
27 Jan 2022 C (cryptocurrency 
exchange)Transfer £6,000.00
27 Jan 2022 W Card £4,012.00
28 Jan 2022 W Card £2,006.00
28 Jan 2022 W Card £2,006.00
31 Jan 2022 W Card £2,006.00
1 Feb 2022 C Transfer £8,000.00
3 Feb 2022 C Transfer £10,536,00
Credits:
Date Return Amount
26 Jan 2022 W £200.00
31 Jan 2022 W £2,006.00
1 Feb 2022 C £7,535.98
On 13 July 2023, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that HSBC should pay Mr M the money he lost 
starting from and including the £6,000 payment he made on 27 January 2022 (see above).  
However, I take the view that Mr M should share some responsibility for his losses for 
reasons I set out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Whilst there are other merchants involved in this matter, Mr M has brought his complaint 
against HSBC.  So, I will be considering HSBCs conduct.
It is not in dispute that Mr M authorised the payments concerned.  However, that is not the 
end of the story.  HSBC has a regulatory obligation to be on the lookout for, amongst other 
things, unusual and out of character transactions  to protect its customers from financial 
harm from fraud.
I am persuaded that Mr Ms payment transfer of £6,000 on 27 January 2022 was unusual 
and should have triggered HSBCs security systems; consequently, prompting it to intervene 
and speak to Mr M before releasing the payment.  I say this given Mr Ms account activity, 
the value of the payment and the fact it was going to a cryptocurrency exchange at a time 
when HSBC should have been aware of the risks of cryptocurrency scams.  I am not 
persuaded that any of the payments prior to the one I have identified should have triggered  
something which Mr M accepts. 
HSBC says Mr M would have seen four fraud pop-ups in relation to some of his payments.  
Mr M says he does not recall seeing these.  In my view, HSBC should have gone beyond a 
pop-up warning for the £6,000 payment.  That is, there should have been a human 
intervention.  I say this for the same reasons I set out above in relation to why I find the 
payment should have triggered.  I will come back to this point in more detail in due course.
HSBC also say that Mr M did not select the accurate purpose for his payments; again, 
something which Mr M says he does not recall.  Because of this, HSBC argues that one, Mr 
M would not have seen the relevant investment option; and two, Mr M would have misled 
HSBC had it intervened.  Regarding the former point, I repeat what I set out above relating to 
why I find there should have been a human intervention.  Regarding the latter, whilst I take 
HSBCs point, in my view, as a human intervention did not take place  I cannot speculate about whether Mr M would have attempted to mislead HSBC had it intervened.  And even if 
he had attempted to, based on the evidence before me  I take the view HSBC would have 
been able to identify this because any misleading explanation about his payment would not 
have stood up to careful scrutiny, particularly given some of the aggravating factors in this 
case.  For example, change of payment method, change in merchants and payments made 
to a cryptocurrency exchange.
For the above reasons, I am persuaded HSBC should have intervened in the £6,000 
payment.  Had it done so, I am satisfied that further payments could have been prevented.
Mr M says that he was involved in an investment in 2014.  He says he did not progress with 
this as he felt as if he did not have sufficient experience.
In my judgment, a reasonable person in Mr Ms position would have had concerns and been 
on alert about someone telephoning them  out of the blue  about an investment they had 
made several years ago.  I say this especially given the several payments Mr M was being 
asked to make to be able to withdraw his investment funds (over £9,000 by the time he 
made his payment on 27 January 2022).  That said, I can see that the scammer, by way of 
email, provided Mr M with a FCA reference number.  Checking this number against the FCA 
register shows an individual whom I will refer to as A: the same name the scammer used.  
Because of this, in my judgment, a reasonable person in Mr Ms position would have 
believed the person the scammer was purporting to be  thereby making them more 
credible.
However, I do note that the FCA register does not show A as being connected to BlockChain 
 the company in which A told Mr M they were working for.  In my view, a reasonable person 
in Mr Ms position would have taken steps to verify this discrepancy.  Again, I say this given 
the amount of money Mr M was being asked to pay to release his funds, and the fact he had 
been contacted out of the blue about an investment he made several years ago.  Had Mr M 
taken steps to verify the discrepancy concerned, it is likely, in my view, further payments 
could have been prevented.
Taking all the above points together, whilst I find that HSBC could have done more to protect 
Mr M from financial harm from fraud  I also find that Mr M should share some responsibility 
for his losses.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded to say he agreed with my provisional findings.  HSBC responded to say it 
also agreed, but on a gesture of goodwill basis.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the responses from the parties in this matter, I will not be departing from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I therefore 
direct HSBC UK Bank Plc:Pay Mr M the money he lost  less any applicable credits  starting from and 
including the £6,000 payment he made on 27 January 2022 (see above); including 
any transaction fees (if applicable)  but subject to a 50% deduction for contributory 
negligence: within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision; plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ms account 
until the date of settlement.
If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it 
should provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman