DRN-2447401
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his bank account. And took too long to 
release his funds to him. He says this caused him trouble and upset and he wants the bank 
to pay him compensation. 
What happened
On 28 February 2019, a faster payment of £7,500 was paid into Mr As Santander bank 
account from a business account he held with another bank, which I will refer to as bank B.
Santander took the view that it needed to look into the payment and how Mr A was operating 
his account. Whilst it completed a review Santander blocked Mr As access to his account. 
Mr A discovered that his account was blocked when he tried to make some online payments 
on 28 February 2019. Mr A contacted Santander to find out was happening and to see if 
there was a problem with his account. When he spoke to the bank Mr A explained that the 
£7,500 was a dividend payment for work, hed done the previous month. The bank told him 
that it needed information to show he was entitled to the money. So, Mr A went into a branch 
that same day and provided several documents including his bank statement with bank B, a 
work contract, invoices and his company registration. 
Santander reviewed the paperwork Mr A provided and contacted bank B about the payment 
made into Mr As account. 
On 4 March 2019, Mr A complained to Santander about the review, he said hed provided 
enough information to show the money belonged to him and needed access to his funds. He 
said he didnt think it was reasonable that Santander had decided to contact bank B. He 
explained that he had three payday loan payments that he needed to make from his 
account, and he had no other money to cover his everyday expenses. So, he said the block 
was causing him a great deal of distress and inconvenience. And he wanted Santander to 
pay him £10,000 compensation. 
In response, Santander apologised to Mr A and said it should have been clearer about how 
long things might take and paid Mr A £60 compensation. Santander also rang bank B to try 
and get the information it had requested. Unfortunately, bank B said Santander needed to 
email its request to comply with its processes and it couldnt be done over the phone. So, 
Santander sent bank B an email. On 7 March 2019, Santander sent bank B a chaser email 
but didnt receive a response. On 8 March 2019, Santander rung bank B twice to try and find 
out how long it would take to action its request for information. Due to Mr As circumstances, 
Santander asked bank B to expediate things, but bank B said this wasnt possible and said it 
replies to emails within 20 days. So, Santander could expect an answer by 24 March 2019.
Mr A contacted Santander again on 11, 19 and 22 March 2019, and said hed been told by 
bank B that Santander hadnt contacted them. Santander said it couldnt explain this. And 
sent bank B a further chaser for the information it had requested. On 27 March 2019, bank B 
provided Santander with the information it had requested. Santander accepted Mr A was 
entitled to the money which had been paid into his account and decided to remove the 
blocks that day. However, the blocks werent lifted correctly, so Mr A wasnt able to access 
his account until 2 April 2019. Santander apologised to Mr A and offered to pay him a further 
£60 compensation for any inconvenience this caused him. 
Mr A didnt accept Santanders offer. He said not being able to access his money for nearly a 
month had seriously affected his health and because he missed his loan repayments his 
credit record will be negatively impacted. He also explained that because he couldnt access 
his money, he had to take out a further £700 payday loan and Santanders enquiry led bank 
B to close his account. He said that he had to constantly chase Santander for updates, and it 
was only his actions which prompted Santander to chase bank B. So, he said £60 doesnt 
adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset hed been caused. He wants £10,000 
compensation.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service where an investigator considered it. The 
investigator said Santander had done enough to put things right. And hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had blocked Mr As account and asked him for information. Mr A didnt accept 
the investigators view. He wants the bank to pay him more compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its 
obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. 
If Santander didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
In order to meet these requirements Santander is entitled to ask a customer for more 
information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into an 
account. And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see 
if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd 
have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Mr As accounts and ask him for information about the money which 
had been paid into his account in February 2019. Santander has explained that this was its 
standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Having looked at the activity on Mr As account 
I can see that the £7,500 payment was out of character, so I can understand why Santander 
had concerns and wanted to find out more about the payment. So, whilst I accept this 
caused Mr A inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated him unfairly when it blocked his 
account. And asked him to provide information to show he was entitled to the money so that 
it could comply with its obligations. 
Mr A says Santander took too long to complete its review of his account and the information 
he provided. And should have done things more quickly. Because of the blocks Mr A says he 
missed three repayments on loans hed taken out. And had to take out a £700 payday loan 
to get by. I do accept that it took around 27 days for Santander to release Mr As money to 
him. But I dont consider that it would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in 
excess of any particular or specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled  as a matter 
of principle  to do what it did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, 
whilst I appreciate Mr A wasnt able to use the funds in his account to repay his loans and took out a further loan, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr A compensation for 
this.
I also note that Santander spoke to Mr A on more than one occasion about what was 
happening and explained to him that it was waiting for bank B to respond. I can see that the 
bank wrote to Mr A on at least three occasions. So, I think Santander kept Mr A informed 
about what it was doing.  I dont think its unreasonable that the bank needed time to 
examine what Mr A had provided and make enquiries with bank B. The bank needed to be 
satisfied Mr A was entitled to the money. 
Mr A says he spoke to bank B to check what was going on and that bank B told him that it 
hadnt heard anything from Santander. But from the evidence Ive seen, Santander chased 
bank B for a response on more than one occasion. And asked bank B to hurry things up so 
that it could complete its review. Its unfortunate that bank B said it would take at least 20 
days to respond to Santander  despite Santander asking for things to be done sooner. But I 
cant hold Santander responsible for the actions or processes of another bank. Overall, 
whilst I appreciate the process was frustrating for Mr A, I think Santander took appropriate 
measures to find a way forward for him to be able to access the money in his bank account 
and completed its review in a timely manner.
Ive also considered Mr As request for £10,000 compensation. Mr A says this is made up of 
£5,900 to cover the funds which were frozen, £700 to cover the loan he took out in mid- 
March 2019, and £3,400 in recognition of the trouble and upset hes been caused. 
Its clear that Mr A feels strongly about his complaint. Its only fair that Santander should 
compensate Mr A for any losses, distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of 
its errors. Santander has accepted it didnt give Mr A clear information about how long it 
would take to complete its review. And didnt remove the blocks correctly from Mr As 
account, which meant he had to wait longer to access his funds. So, I can understand why 
Mr A was upset. And, I agree that he is entitled to receive some compensation for the 
inconvenience he experienced arising from that delay and poor communication. 
When a business makes an error that affects a customer, it would be expected that the 
business puts their customer back in the position that they would be in had the error not 
occurred. Santander released Mr As frozen balance to him, so hes not lost out financially. 
Santander has also made Mr A an offer of compensation of a total of £120 for the trouble 
and upset hes been caused. I understand Mr A doesnt think this goes far enough given the 
amount of distress and inconvenience he says hes suffered. But its important to note that it 
isnt the role of this service to punish or fine businesses for their mistakes or standard of 
service. I know Mr A wont agree, but I think the offer made by Santander is fair and 
reasonable. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything more. 
Finally, I note Mr A says bank B closed his account because of Santanders actions. But Ive 
not seen any evidence to suggest this was the case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to ask Santander Bank plc to do anything more 
to resolve Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Sharon KerrisonOmbudsman