DRN-2693493
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P (the complainants) question and dispute Asset Charges (ACs) that have 
been applied to their Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) Investment Portfolio Service (IPS) 
portfolio. Their IPS portfolio began in 2012 and they say the ACs first appeared in their 2018 
portfolio statement, that the ACs were absent from previous years statements and that the 
ACs were never previously brought to their attention.
What happened
In the main, the complainants say  
they had been banking clients of Lloyds for around 50 years when, in 2012, they 
sought to use its wills drafting service but were invited to consider its investment 
service; an adviser reviewed their savings, investments and policies at the time and 
recommended the IPS portfolio; 
they followed the recommendation and relied on the advisers explanation that, aside 
from the initial set-up cost, the total annual running cost for the portfolio would be 1% 
plus VAT; later in 2012, and in the course of considering/using Lloyds Inheritance 
Tax Planning service they queried whether (or not) there were additional costs 
associated with the IPS portfolio; they received no response and retained their 
reliance of what they had been verbally told at the outset; 
they were given paperwork for the IPS portfolio at the outset but, in terms of costs, 
they relied on what they had been verbally told by the adviser; what they were told 
was consistent with the portfolio statements they received between 2012 and 2017, 
which all showed annual charges no more than 1% of the portfolios value plus VAT; 
the 2018 portfolio statement stood in contrast, as it showed the Annual Service 
Charge (ASC) of 1% plus VAT in addition to the ACs, creating a notable increase to 
the annual costs incurred in the portfolio;
this shocked them, they complained about the matter to Lloyds but their complaint 
was not upheld; Lloyds claimed that their cost had not changed, that the ACs had 
always been applied, that it had been referred to in the paperwork given to them at 
the outset and that the difference in 2018 was a change in regulation at the time 
which meant it had to make the ACs more transparent in the portfolio statement;
they are not convinced by Lloyds explanation and they consider that, at best, it 
means Lloyds concedes the ACs were not transparent until 2018; they also consider 
that their decision to undertake the IPS portfolio could have been different if the ACs 
were brought to their attention as costs to incur, above the ASC.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She referred to the IPS Services, Rates and Charges brochure (the brochure) 
provided to the complainants in 2012 which included information about the ASC but also 
information about fund charges and about the Total Expense Ratio (TER) applicable to the 
portfolio. She noted that the TER was described as an addition to the ASC and that it 
reflected all the costs associated directly with the individual investment funds within the 
portfolio. She also referred to a 2014 version of the brochure that was provided to the 
complainants in that year, which contained the same information. 
The investigator agreed with the differences, highlighted by the complainants, between the 
2012 to 2017 portfolio statements, on one hand, and the 2018 statement, on the other, but 
she noted that a change in European Union regulations in 2018 required firms to present 
information about investment charges differently. She considered that this explained the 
2018 statement. Overall, she concluded that information about the ACs, in the context of the 
TER explained in the brochure, was given to the complainants at the outset in 2012; that 
they signed confirmation, in March 2012, that they received and read the brochure; that this 
service would expect them to have read the brochure; and that the ACs had always applied 
to the portfolios but Lloyds had not been required, by regulation, to include them separately 
in the portfolio statements until 2018.
The complainants disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
They retained their initial position on the complaint and their view that if the ACs had applied 
from the outset they had been concealed from the outset and up to 2018  in this respect, 
they queried where in the brochure information about the ACs was provided. The matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint and I have reached this conclusion for reasons broadly similar 
to those given by the investigator.
I consider that the complainants query about information on the ACs in 2012 is a logical 
starting point.
Lloyds wrote to the complainants on 7 March 2012, referring to its meeting with them on 8 
February 2012 and enclosing their financial plan. They signed and dated (on 8 March 2012) 
the acknowledgement document to confirm they had received and read the financial plan 
and all documents provided to them in relation to it. Section 4 of the financial plan listed 
important documents that had been provided to them and the list includes the brochure.
The brochure has a section entitled Rates and Charges for the Investment Portfolio Service 
(IPS) and first within this section is information about the 1% plus VAT ASC, under the sub-
section headed Service Charge and Termination Fee; information in the next sub-section, 
headed Fund Charges, includes the following:
Total Expense Ratio (TER)
This is a ratio expressing all costs you will incur in holding your investment in terms of a 
percentage of the funds total assets. This includes the funds annual management charge 
(AMC) levied by the fund manager, in this case SWIP Fund Management Limited, and other 
running costs including audit, legal and custody fees.
The TER is in addition to the service charge  
These charges are taken from the capital or income within the fund and calculated on a daily 
basis. They are deducted from the fund itself periodically or on an ad hoc basis and will have 
already been taken into account in the pricing of the relevant holding.
[my emphasis]The above served as information to the complainants about the ACs at the outset.  On 8 
March 2012 they confirmed receiving, reading and understanding the brochure, amongst 
other documents, so it is reasonable to conclude that they would have read or ought 
reasonably to have read the contents quoted above. As the investigator said, it is usually this 
services reasonable expectation that clients would and should have read documents 
provided to them in relation to their investments.
The information quoted above also served as a reasonably clear explanation of how 
application of the ACs  or TER as it was termed prior to the 2018 statement  was 
inherent/imbedded within the values of the funds held in the portfolio. This confirmed their 
existence from the outset and gave an implicit reason why they would not be accounted for 
separately in the statements. Consequently, the statements the complainants received 
between 2012 and 2017 which showed, only, application of the 1% plus VAT ASC were 
essentially showing application of that ASC to a total portfolio value within which the TER (or 
ACs) associated with the portfolios funds had already been deducted. 
I can understand the complainants dissatisfaction with what they view as concealment of the 
ACs/TER because they were not mentioned in the statements between 2012 and 2017. 
However, this appears to have resulted from them disregarding or not recalling the 
information about the TER they had been given in 2012  as quoted above. Had they been 
mindful of that information  as they should have been  it is unlikely that they would now 
hold their view about concealment. In any case, no such concealment took place. The TER 
was not in the pre-2018 statements because it was not supposed to be, the complainants 
had been informed about its existence and application at the outset and they had also been 
informed that it would be applied from within the values of their portfolios investment funds.
The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) II came into force in 2018 and it 
imposed, upon firms, new rules for the disclosure of both pre-sale and post-sale investment 
costs and charges to investors. In essence, such costs and charges  post-sale in the 
complainants case  were/are required to be transparent to investors. The effect of this 
change was what the complainants experienced upon receipt of the 2018 portfolio 
statement. Where previously the ACs/TER that applied within the funds in the portfolio did 
not have to be unbundled in the statement, from 2018 onwards they had to be. I can 
appreciate why the complainants might view this as an implication that the costs were 
previously concealed but, as I addressed above, they were not.
For the sake of clarity, the complainants complaint is about disclosure, transparency and 
application of the ACs. It has been addressed as such. Overall, on balance and for the 
reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint. The complaint is not about the accuracy 
of the ACs/TER amounts deducted from the portfolio and I make no finding in that respect. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ps and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman