DRN-4403936
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his motor insurance policy after he had two classic cars stolen on 
route to a classic car show. Only one was insured by Markerstudy and it turned down the 
claim as it didnt believe the theft happened as described by Mr C and it cited fraud. As Mr C 
wasnt happy about this he complained to Markerstudy and then this Service about the 
decline of his claim and how he felt he was treated.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C but didnt uphold his complaint. He considered all 
the details and evidence surrounding the claim. But he didnt think Markerstudy had done 
anything wrong in turning down the claim given there were various discrepancies 
surrounding the case. 
As Mr C didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, but Ill explain why.
Mr C made a claim under his policy after two classic cars were stolen when he was travelling 
to a classic car show (one was towing the other). He was intending to meet fellow classic car 
enthusiasts on route and stopped for a refreshment break and a walk. But when he returned 
to his cars he realised that they had been stolen which he went on to report to the police and 
Markerstudy.
Markerstudy looked into the circumstances surrounding Mr Cs claim and appointed an 
investigator to consider the claim and interview Mr C. I know Mr C found this difficult, but 
insurers are entitled to question the circumstances surrounding claims to ensure they are 
genuine, and this isnt unusual across the industry. 
Ultimately, Markerstudy had a number of concerns surrounding the claim including - 
questioning inaccuracies in how Mr C went about reporting the matter to the police; 
questioning the details around the classic car show he was due to attend; conflicting 
accounts around potential witnesses; questions around the legitimacy of the vehicle that was 
stolen amongst other things. And it decided that it was turning the claim down citing the 
fraud term within the policy which says If a claim is made which you or anyone acting for 
you knows is false or exaggerated, or if you give us incorrect information or fraudulent 
documents, we will not pay any part of the claim, cover under this insurance will not be valid, 
and you will lose any premium you have paid. We may also contact the Police and/or 
relevant authority(s) in relation to possible criminal proceedings.
As both sides know the full details and circumstances surrounding this case I dont propose 
to go over all the finer detail here. But I dont think Markerstudy have acted unreasonably 
here as it has a number of questions around the validity of the claim, and I will highlight one 
key discrepancy in this case by way of example. 
Mr C told Markerstudy when he reported the theft he was towing one classic car on a trailer 
being towed by the other classic car and he clearly outlined this in his statement about the 
theft. But Markerstudy highlighted that the police report said he was towing both classic cars 
on a trailer with another more modern car. I understand Mr C offered an explanation as to 
why the police had put that on the crime report. But he maintained what he had reported to 
Markerstudy originally was correct (that he was towing one classic car on the back of the 
other). 
However, while this complaint has been with this Service for investigation Mr Cs first notice 
of loss call to his insurance broker has come to light. Ive listened to the call, and he clearly 
outlines he was towing both the classic cars on a trailer on the back of another more modern 
car that he owned which is clearly at odds with the account he provided to Markerstudy. In 
addition to the questions Markerstudy have around the claim this clearly highlights that Mr C 
hasnt been consistent in his account.
Given this, and the other questions Markerstudy highlighted about the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Cs claim including the clear contradictions in his account, I dont think it has 
done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman