DRN-2874336
The complaint
Mr S and Mr S complain that Allianz Business Services Limited failed to notify them of a 
potential change in premium in respect of their commercial policy when the tenant changed 
midway through the policy. 
What happened
About halfway through the term of his annual policy, which commenced in May 2020, Mr Ss 
tenant moved out. He advertised for a new tenant, and when a prospective tenant proposed 
to take on a new tenancy, Mr S contacted Allianz to check whether it would continue insuring 
the premises. This was because the new tenant, who would be selling motorcycle parts and 
accessories, would be storing engine oil at the property. Allianz checked with the insurer and 
replied to Mr S that this would be alright, but that if he did go ahead with the new tenancy he 
would need to contact them to carry out a mid-term adjustment to note the change of 
tenants details on the policy.
Mr S duly contacted Allianz again when he agreed a new tenancy. It processed the 
adjustment to the policy, but Mr S was shocked to find he had been charged a large increase 
in the premium - £695 over six months  effectively more than doubling the price of the 
policy. He complained that he hadnt been warned of a potential increase in premium and 
that if Allianz had done so, he wouldnt have proceeded with that tenant, as it wasnt cost 
effective for him to do so.
Allianz said that when it was contacted it was only asked about whether the insurer had any 
issues about the new tenant storing engine oil. It duly contacted the insurer and told Mr S it 
would be acceptable, but that it would have to contact him to change the policy to reflect the 
change of tenant. It accepted that Mr S wouldnt have known about the likely change of 
premium but pointed out that until the mid-term adjustment was done its agent wouldnt have 
known if and to what extent the premium would have been impacted.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Allianz had acted reasonably.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise that I am considering the actions of the broker rather than the insurer in 
this decision. I havent considered whether the decision by the insurer to increase the 
premium is reasonable.
When Mr S contacted Allianz it was to enquire about his prospective new tenant and to 
specifically ask about whether the storage of engine oil by the tenant would affect the policy. 
He was told it wouldnt, and on that basis he went ahead with the new tenancy. He was 
aware he would have to notify Allianz of the change and that the details of the tenants line of 
work would have to be added to the policy.
I can understand that Mr S wouldnt have anticipated an increase in premium, especially 
such a large increase. Theres no indication that Allianz made Mr S aware that there would 
be any increase in the premium. Although I appreciate this wasnt asked by Mr S, I have 
considered whether Allianzs position, as broker, was reasonable. The change in tenant is 
what appears to have led to the increase in premium, rather than the storage of engine oil. 
When Allianz talked to the insurer it said it wouldnt have asked any questions about that. 
The policy schedule of May 2020 listed the details of the commercial tenant as: 
Furniture Retailing 
Caravan Sales
Used Car Sales
Motor Repairers (Private Cars and CVs up to 7.5 Tonnes)
I understand that the new tenant sells motorcycle parts and accessories. It seems to me that 
the old business of motor repairers could quite easily have had engine oil in storage without 
being in breach of the terms of the policy. I dont think, until the notice of adjustment came 
through that the broker would have been expected to know that there would be any increase 
in premium. So I think it acted reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman