DRN-4340048
The complaint
Mr R is complaining TSB Bank plc wont refund a payment he made for goods he didnt 
receive.
What happened
Mr R saw some records advertised on Gumtree and decided he wanted to buy them as a 
Christmas present. On 8 December 2022 he made a payment to the seller with his TSB 
debit card, through PayPals friends and family option. The payment was for £550.
On 9 December 2022 Mr R became suspicious about whether the seller was genuine. He 
called TSB to ask for the transaction to be stopped. The first adviser he spoke to told him the 
pending transaction wouldnt go through if Mr R reported it as fraudulent, but that his card 
would be blocked. Mr R was transferred to another adviser who told him if he disputed the 
payment through TSBs app hed receive a refund.
The payment debited Mr Rs account with TSB on 13 December 2022.  But Mr R didnt 
receive the records and the seller stopped communicating with him. 
 
On 21 December 2022 Mr R called TSB again to report the transaction as fraudulent. He 
completed a dispute form which TSB received on 23 December 2022. TSB investigated, but 
they didnt agree to refund the money Mr R had lost. They sent Mr R their final response 
letter, which explained that due to the way the payment was made, it wasnt covered under 
the chargeback rules. They accepted that theyd given Mr R incorrect advice about the 
possibility of a refund during his call of 9 December 2022, and offered £50.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service, and it was looked into by an investigator. The 
investigator didnt think TSB should refund the amount Mr R had lost to the scam, and she 
thought the £50 TSB had offered was fair compensation for the incorrect information theyd 
given him.
Mr R didnt agree, so his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn about what happened to Mr R. It does appear hes been the victim of a 
scam, and I fully understand why hed feel he shouldnt lose out. But I dont think I can fairly 
say that TSB should refund the money he lost in the scam. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that Mr R authorised the debit card payment. And TSB have a duty to act on 
his instruction. But in some circumstances a bank should take a closer look at the 
circumstances of the payments  for example, if they ought to be alert to a fraud risk, such 
as because the transaction is unusual, or looks out of character or suspicious. And if so, the 
bank should intervene, usually by contacting the customer directly, before authorising the 
payment.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances here and I dont think there was anything
suspicious or unusual about the payment which should have alerted TSB to intervene. The
payment was made using Mr Rs debit card and was authorised by him. It wasnt for what 
wed generally consider to be a significant amount. Ive also reviewed Mr Rs statements and 
I dont consider the payment to have been out of character for how Mr R generally used his 
account. And as the payments were made online through PayPal and not through TSB, TSB 
didnt have contact with Mr R before he authorised the payment, in order to identify the 
potential for a scam. 
Overall, I dont think TSB were unreasonable to authorise the payment without
intervening on this occasion.
Mr R contacted TSB on the day after he authorised the payment. Hes explained that he 
thinks TSB should have stopped the payment when he called them then. But the payment 
had been made with Mr Rs debit card, and so couldnt be recalled or stopped in the same 
way that an online transfer sometimes can be. 
Its possible to dispute a debit card payment through a process called chargeback, which 
can sometimes be attempted if something has gone wrong with a debit card purchase, 
subject to the relevant card schemes rules. But I dont think that a chargeback would have 
been successful here, even if TSB has processed one either at the time Mr R spoke to them 
on the phone on 9 December 2022 or when he called them again to dispute the transaction 
later on in December. This is because the payment Mr R made to the seller was on the basis 
that he was paying friends and family, rather than paying a merchant for goods and services. 
And PayPals terms make it clear the payment therefore isnt covered by its buyer protection. 
So I cant see there were reasonable grounds, in line with the card scheme rules, for a claim 
to succeed in these circumstances
TSB have accepted that Mr R was given incorrect information during the conversations he 
had with them on 9 December 2022. But I dont think that made a difference to the overall 
outcome here, because at the time of the call the debit card payment to the seller had 
already been authorised and couldnt be stopped or recalled - despite what Mr R was told on 
the phone. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think TSB need to 
refund the money he lost in the scam. TSB did give Mr R incorrect information about the 
chances of him successfully being able to stop the payment or claim it back, and I think the 
£50 offer theyve already made is fair and reasonable to reflect the impact of this on Mr R. I 
understand TSB havent yet paid this to Mr R, so thats what they should do to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay Mr R £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman