DRN-3177206
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax misled him when discussing a 
payment arrangement. Mr A was unaware that a missed payment would be recorded on his 
credit file. Mr A would like his credit file rectified.
What happened
Mr A had a joint mortgage with his ex-wife. Due to the divorce they decided to sell the 
property. As Mr A had remarried and needed to move, he began to rent another property 
and so had difficulties paying the mortgage pending the sale. Mr A wanted an interest only 
period, but Halifax offered a facility where he could pay what he could afford for three 
months at the end of 2020 and beginning of 2021. Mr A paid £400pm rather than the 
contractual monthly payment of £809pm due for those three months. Mr As former wife then 
decided to live in the property and started paying the mortgage from February 2001. But 
then Mr A found out that because of the reduced payments hed been making that his credit 
file recorded a missed payment. Mr A says that hed been told that his credit score might 
be impacted but not that a missed payment would be recorded. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as the adviser who 
spoke to Mr A had told him his credit file would be impacted and had sent out a fact sheet 
explaining it. Mr A disagreed saying the information he got was inadequate to enable him to 
avoid the missed payment marker.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has 16 years of credit record in the UK and feels that he should have been warned that 
making the reduced payments to his mortgage would lead to a missed payment being 
recorded. I can see that an arrangement was reached between Halifax and Mr A on 6 
October 2020 with Mr A to pay what he could afford over the next three months. Halifax has 
provided notes of the conversation. The relevant part of the conversation is as follows
Agent said there are good and bad sides to this. Good side is that the bank gives them the 
time and opportunity to be paying less. The Negative side is that there would be arrears 
occurring on the account and credit file may be impacted.
Apart from the phone conversation, Halifax sent out a letter dated 7 October 2020 confirming 
the payment arrangement and with an information sheet Payment Arrangements Your 
Questions Answered . Ive read the document and I believe that its reasonable to conclude 
from it that if Mr As  payments fell below the contractual monthly payments, arrears would 
accrue, that information would be passed to credit reference agencies and would reflect on 
his payment record. From the combined effect of the letter and the phone call it should have 
been clear to Mr A that an unfortunate result of the payment arrangement would be that his 
credit file would be negatively impacted. I agree that it does not spell out how that would be 
eventually recorded as a missed payment. But if Mr A was concerned at the time specifically 
how it would impact, it was open to him to enter into a further discussion with Halifax about 
that and how he might manage it, but he does not do so. I dont believe thats the fault of 
Halifax. The lender had told Mr A there would be a negative impact and Mr A proceeded 
knowing and accepting that. 
Although Im sorry that a Mr A had to enter a payment arrangement and that a missed 
payment was recorded against him, Im satisfied that Mr A knew that his credit file would be 
negatively impacted  as it was  and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman