DRN-4348527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money they lost, after 
they fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
In or around April 2018, Mr B was looking to invest. He was introduced to a broker, who had 
been recommended to him by a colleague of his son. Mr and Mrs B have said that their son 
was good friends with the colleague and had known them for several years, the colleague 
had also invested with the broker.
A meeting was arranged with the broker at Mr and Mrs Bs home address. The investment 
opportunity - which was for the broker to invest in cryptocurrency, on Mr Bs behalf, was 
discussed. Mr B explained the broker showed him excellent figures for what could typically 
be received through the investment. Which Mr B thought were achievable, given hes said 
hed had success with investing in cryptocurrency previously.
Convinced by what hed seen and heard Mr B decided to go ahead and invest and signed an 
agreement/contract to deposit £140,000 to the broker. This was done on the 
understanding that the funds would need to remain invested for a minimum of twelve 
months, with Mr B agreeing to pay the broker 20% of the financial gain over that twelve-
month period.
Mr B went ahead and made the following payments, from his and Mrs Bs joint account;
13 April 2018 £50,000
27 April 2018 £50,000
2 May 2018 £40,000
Having made the payments Mr B has said he was in regular contact with the broker. But 
when he tried to withdraw money, after the twelve months had passed, he was unable to and 
then all communication stopped. Unknown to Mr B at the time the person who hed met and 
was dealing with was actually a fraudster and Mr B had sent money to an account the 
fraudster controlled.
Mr and Mrs B raised the matter with Barclays and it looked into their fraud claim. It issued its 
final response on 9 June 2022, upholding the complaint in part. In summary, it recognised it 
could have done more and didnt flag the payments at the time they were made and had it of 
done so, it said it may have been able to make Mr B aware of possible scam activity and for 
him to consider his actions further before making the payments.
But it added it felt Mr B also held some liability for entering into such an agreement without 
compelling due diligence, given the amount of money involved. Overall, Barclays agreed to 
refund Mr and Mrs B 50% of the money they lost, along with interest.
Unhappy with Barclays response, through their representatives, Mr and Mrs B then brought 
their complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into things and thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, she didnt think Mr B had acted unreasonably 
when making the payments. As a result she thought Barclays should refund Mr and Mrs B 
the remainder of the money theyd lost, along with interest.
Barclays didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary it said whilst it sympathised 
with Mr and Mrs B, it didnt consider it should have to refund the remaining loss. It 
maintained that it felt Mr B didnt conduct enough due diligence, other than trusting his son.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals  
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to  counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs B, when Mr B made the payments and the scam was reported, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Mr B authorised the payments himself. Because of this, Barclays had  
an obligation to follow his instructions. But, as explained above, there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
payments. I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays shouldve been on the  
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Barclays has already agreed it should have done more than it did. It recognised the 
payments Mr B instructed it to make were out of character and that it could have done more 
to make him aware of possible scam activity. For these reasons, Barclays agreed to refund 
50% of Mr and Mrs Bs total losses, but it doesnt think it should be liable for the whole 
amount and that Mr B should also carry some of the liability.
So, the only thing left for me to consider is whether Mr and Mrs B should bear some 
responsibility for their loss.
 Should Mr and Mrs B share some responsibility for their losses?
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs B ought to take some responsibility for the loss. But 
having done so, I think they have been the unwitting victims of a clever fraudster. I am not 
persuaded that, in the individual circumstances of this case, Mr and Mrs Bs actions or 
inactions have contributed to the loss that they went on to suffer to such an extent that they 
should be held partially liable for it. I think a reasonable person could similarly have been 
persuaded to invest in what, on the face of it, appeared to Mr B to be a legitimate investment 
opportunity.
Importantly here Mr B had received the recommendation from his sons colleague who was 
well-known to them and had been for several years. I think its understandable and 
reasonable why this would have contributed to Mr B believing the person that was being 
recommended to him was legitimate. Alongside this I also think the fraudster attending       
Mr Bs house, in person, to talk about the investment opportunity would have made things 
seem all the more plausible.
As well as this, Mr B has told us that hed had success with cryptocurrency investments in 
the past. With this in mind I dont think the returns that were discussed with Mr B, albeit high, 
would have appeared as concerningly unrealistic to him, to the point where they ought to 
have concerned him.
I do appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, there may have been more things Mr B 
could have done. For instance, the agreement/contract wasnt as convincing as it could 
have been. But this, in and of itself, isnt enough to fairly and reasonably believe that Mr B 
was negligent in proceeding.
Mr and Mrs B havent been scammed before, theyre not experts in all matters relating to 
frauds and  scams, nor about how they work or can play out. People dont want or expect to 
be scammed and I think overall and when considering things in the round, in the 
circumstances of this case, I dont consider Mr B had any reason to think who he was paying 
would not keep to their side of that bargain, especially in the absence of any warnings or 
intervention by Barclays.
Overall, Im not persuaded here that there was anything specific that would have appeared 
as a glaring red flag to Mr B that all might not have been as it seemed. And I cant ignore 
that Barclays did not educate Mr B about the relevant scam type, to raise his awareness 
about the types of checks he could do to protect himself from financial harm.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
now:
- Refund Mr and Mrs B the remainder of the money they lost (that being £70,000)
- Pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date the payments were made to the date 
of settlement*
*If Barclays Bank UK PLC deducts tax from this part of the award it should provide a tax 
deduction certificate to Mr and Mrs B so they can reclaim the amount from HMRC if eligible 
to do so.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman