DRN-4206927
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Pet Insurance
(Direct Line) has unfairly turned down their claim on their pet insurance policy.
What happened
While on holiday, Mr E and Mrs Es dog injured his left foreleg running on a beach. Mr E
says their dogs leg was left hanging and not weight-bearing following the injury. So
Mr E and Mrs E took their dog for urgent treatment to a local veterinary practice and were
then referred to an orthopaedic veterinary practice.
In the previous few months, Mr E and Mrs Es dog had been seen by their own veterinary
practice because of lameness to his right foreleg. I understand this right leg lameness was
discussed in Mr E and Mrs Es consultation with the orthopaedic vet.
The X-rays and CT scans taken by the orthopaedic vet showed Mr E and Mrs Es dog had
fractured the elbow of his left foreleg and had a fissure on the elbow of his right foreleg. The
fracture to his left elbow was surgically repaired by the orthopaedic vet. Mr E and Mrs E
made a claim on their pet insurance policy for this treatment, which Direct Line settled up to
Mr E and Mrs Es policy limit of £4,000 per condition.
Around six or seven weeks later, Mr E and Mrs Es dog had surgery at their own veterinary
practice to repair the fissure on the elbow of his right foreleg. Mr E and Mrs E made a claim
on their pet insurance policy for this treatment, which Direct Line turned down. It did this in
reliance on a term in Mr E and Mrs Es policy that limits cover for what is called a Bilateral
Condition.
Mr E and Mrs E didnt think this was fair but, when they complained to Direct Line, it didnt
uphold their complaint. Direct Line said that, although Mr E and Mrs Es dogs left foreleg 
fracture was triggered by the injury on the beach, the proximate cause was a condition 
known as incomplete ossification of the humeral condyle (IOHC). It says because this is a
bilateral condition, the claims for Mr E and Mrs Es dogs two elbow surgeries had been
correctly assessed and fell within the policy limit on cover of £4,000 per condition.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr E and Mrs E brought their complaint to us. Initially, the 
investigator who looked at Mr E and Mrs Es complaint didnt uphold it. He didnt think it was
unreasonable of Direct Line to rely on the opinion of the orthopaedic vet  which was that the
same condition affected both of Mr E and Mrs Es dogs forelegs  to turn down their claim.
But having considered the matter further, in a second view, our investigator upheld
Mr E and Mrs Es complaint. He said thered been no treatment for the underlying condition
when the per condition claim limit on Mr E and Mrs Es policy was reached (that is, following
the surgery for the fracture to the left foreleg), which he said was for a one-off incident. So
our investigator asked Direct Line to deal with Mr E and Mrs Es claim for their dogs right
foreleg treatment as a separate condition and consider it under the remaining terms and
conditions of Mr E and Mrs Es policy.
Direct Line disagreed with our investigators second view. Among other things, it said the
fact that Mr Es dog has now been diagnosed with IOHC strongly supports this as the
underlying and proximate cause of the fracture. So Mr E and Mrs Es complaint came to me 
to decide.
In my provisional decision of 24 May 2023, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr E and 
Mrs Es complaint. Mr E and Mrs E disagree with my provisional decision. They say, among 
other things, there is not one piece of evidence that can categorically prove that the front left 
leg had any previous history of IOHC or any other type of injury, only assumptions. Direct 
Line says it has nothing to add to my provisional decision.
So Mr E and Mrs Es complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr E and Mrs Es complaint. I know Mr E and 
Mrs E will continue to be disappointed with this outcome but I am of the view that its a fair 
and reasonable one. I gave my reasons in my provisional decision and heres what I said:
The first thing Ive looked at is Mr E and Mrs Es pet insurance policy. This says Mr Es dog
is insured for up to £4,000 or for 12 months from the date of first treatment (whichever limit is
reached first) for each condition he has. This is the benefit limit of Mr E and Mrs Es policy.
The policy also refers to what is called a Bilateral Condition. It says this is any condition
that affects body parts of which Mr E and Mrs Es dog has two  it gives as examples eyes,
ears, hips, cruciate ligaments, hips and patellae. And it says when applying a benefit limit or
exclusion to Mr E and Mrs Es policy, it treats a Bilateral Condition as one condition.
Direct Line has treated Mr E and Mrs Es claim for their dogs right foreleg surgery as part of
their claim for his left foreleg surgery. This is because it says both surgeries were the result
of a bilateral condition  that is, IOHC  and so Mr E and Mrs Es claim limit of £4,000 per
condition, which has already been reached, applies.
Mr E says he and his wife and their friends witnessed the accident on the beach and it had
nothing to do with a bilateral condition. He says the fracture to his dogs left foreleg was
entirely separate from the fissure that was found to his right foreleg.
My role isnt to decide whats caused the problems with Mr E and Mrs Es dogs forelegs. Its
to decide if Direct Line has acted fairly and reasonably in treating them as a bilateral
condition and in applying the benefit limit of £4,000 per condition. This may seem like a fine 
distinction but its an important one and I must make my decision by assessing all the facts
and evidence Ive been given.
Direct Lines position is broadly as follows:
While [Mr and Mrs Es dogs] LF fracture was triggered by running into a boulder the
underlying condition is IOHC. As this is a bilateral condition which predisposes the dog to
fissures and fractures we have correctly related the fracture on [Mr and Mrs Es dogs left
foreleg] to the fissure on his RF.
One of Direct Lines veterinary nurses reviewed Mr E and Mrs Es dogs medical history and,
among other things, said:The treatment carried out to the LF elbow with a transcondylar screw and plate is treatment
used for an IOHC fissure/fracture repair. This is not the type of fracture caused only by a
collision (my underlining).
A Direct Line veterinary nurse also notes the claim made on their behalf by Mr E and Mrs Es
own veterinary practice for the surgery to their dogs right foreleg was for Transcondylar
screw RF  that is, the same procedure as was carried out on Mr E and Mrs Es dogs left
foreleg. And, in response to Mr Es argument that, before the injury on the beach, their dog
had never been lame on his left foreleg, she says, with IOHC, medically we know that in
some cases no lameness is detected until the bone breaks completely.
As well as the evidence from its own veterinary nurses, Direct Line says the diagnosis of
IOHC made by the orthopaedic vets following Mr E and Mrs Es dogs left foreleg fracture
strongly supports this condition as the underlying and proximate cause of the fracture. Ive
also seen notes of a call between Direct Line and the orthopaedic veterinary practice and an
email from one of the orthopaedic vets. Both of these say the view of two of the vets who
were involved in Mr and Mrs Es dogs treatment is that, although two separate limbs were
affected, Mr E and Mrs Es dog had the same condition  that is, IOHC.
As Ive noted already, Mr E and Mrs E take an entirely different view of the situation. Mr E
says they witnessed their dog having a traumatic injury caused by running into a rock, which
somersaulted him into the air and left him screaming in agony with his left foreleg hanging
and clearly broken. Previously, as Ive also noted, Mr E says hed taken their dog to their
own vet because of an occasional limp to his right foreleg. He says the two conditions are
entirely unrelated. Mr E also says his own vets view is that its impossible to say if
Mr E and Mrs Es dog had IOHC in the left foreleg. And Mr E mentions that hes had some
issues with the orthopaedic veterinary practice over billing  so he queries whether this
means the practice wouldnt want to assist.
I understand Mr E and Mrs Es point of view about their dogs accident. They watched him
dog getting a terrible injury on a beach that clearly resulted in his left foreleg being broken.
So, in their eyes, there was no obvious connection between this and the occasional
lameness their dog had on a different leg in the months before their holiday.
But Mr E and Mrs E arent orthopaedic veterinary experts. And, so far, they have given us
very limited expert veterinary evidence to support their view that their dog had two separate
conditions. Mr E has referred us to some general literature about the differences between a
fissure and a fracture. And, as Ive mentioned, he says his own vet doesnt support the view
of the orthopaedic vets that his dog had IOHC. But I also understand Direct Line asked Mr E
and Mrs Es vet for his view on their dogs condition and didnt get one. If Mr E and Mrs E 
have other expert veterinary evidence to support their view, Id be grateful if they could send 
it in and Ill consider this point again. 
But, as things stand, and looking at the facts and evidence I currently have, I think Direct 
Line has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on the opinions of its veterinary nurses, as 
well as the expert opinions of two vets from the independent orthopaedic veterinary practice 
who operated on Mr E and Mrs Es dogs left foreleg, in reaching its decision on Mr E and 
Mrs Es claim for their dogs right elbow surgery. In the absence of expert evidence to the 
contrary, I think Direct Line has fairly and reasonably applied the policy limit on cover of 
£4,000 per condition for Mr E and Mrs Es dogs right elbow surgery on the basis that he had 
a bilateral condition.As Ive already mentioned, Mr E and Mrs E say theres no evidence that categorically proves 
their dogs front left leg had any previous history of IOHC. They also say their vet has told 
them:
A fissure (like the one their dog had on his right foreleg) is usually caused by 
repeated impact over and above a dogs normal activity  and they say their dog 
tended to land on his right foreleg when jumping out of the car, etc;
Transcondular screws are used for most types of leg injury that affect the bone 
structure; and
It would be impossible to diagnose IOHC in both legs when one had been so badly 
fractured.
Mr E and Mrs E say their evidence is completely truthful and all theyre looking for is justice. 
They ask why they should be required to be experts in veterinary procedures to prove their 
side of the argument when Direct Lines are all based on assumptions? Mr E and Mrs E 
say the bottom line is there was nothing wrong with their dogs left foreleg until he collided 
with the rock. And they suggest there was collaboration between the specialist orthopaedic 
vets and Direct Line in making the diagnosis of IOHC.
I understand the strength of Mr E and Mrs Es views and I dont doubt their honesty. Mr E 
and Mrs E are right, I dont have conclusive proof  one way or the other  as to what 
caused their dogs left foreleg to fracture. But I dont need it, because our role is to decide 
complaints based on the balance of probabilities. That means I must decide what I think is 
most likely to have caused Mr E and Mrs Es dogs left foreleg fracture based on all the facts 
and evidence I have.
Mr E and Mrs Es eye-witness testimony of what happened to their dog, which they say their 
friends also saw, is compelling. And Ive also considered carefully what Mr E and Mrs E say 
their vet has told them, as Ive outlined above and in my provisional decision.
But, against this (and as Ive previously noted) Mr E and Mrs Es vet didnt respond to Direct 
Line when asked for his views on their dogs diagnosis. If hed been willing to make his 
comments first-hand either to Direct Line (or to us), Id be able to attach more weight to them 
than I have. 
I also have the opinions of two specialist orthopaedic vets that its highly likely  in other 
words, more likely than not  Mr E and Mrs Es dog had IOHC in both forelegs.  Mr E 
describes this as an assumption. While I agree its not categoric proof, this evidence is 
much more than an assumption  its saying, in the view of these vets, theres a high 
likelihood Mr E and Mrs Es dog had IOHC in both forelegs. We are an evidence-based 
service and I think it would be unreasonable to ignore this strong evidence from experts  
especially in the absence of direct expert evidence to the contrary. 
Mr E and Mrs E say there was collaboration between the orthopaedic vets and Direct Line. 
This is a serious allegation which Mr E and Mrs E havent substantiated, so it doesnt affect 
my findings on this complaint.
All in all, despite the additional comments Mr E and Mrs E have given me on my provisional 
decision, my view on this complaint remains the same. I think Direct Line has acted fairly 
and reasonably, and in line with Mr E and Mrs Es policy terms and conditions, in turning 
down their claim for their dogs right foreleg surgery.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision (and which now form part of 
this final decision), I dont uphold Mr E and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman