DRN-3930934
Complaint
Mr J has complained about a loan Lendable Ltd (trading as Lendable) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to him in the first 
place.
Background
Lendable provided Mr J with a loan for £4,000.00 in July 2020. This loan had an APR of 
46.84% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£5,352.78, including interest, fees and charges of £1,352.78, was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments of around £300. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Js complaint and she thought Lendable shouldnt have 
provided Mr J with his loan. So she thought that Mr Js complaint should be upheld.
Lendable disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Js complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Lendable needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr J 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive kept this in mind when looking at what Lendable did before approving Mr Js loan 
application and providing him with the funds.
The information Lendable has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before 
this loan was provided. The results of which showed that a significant proportion of Mr Js 
would be going towards repayments to credit once the monthly repayments for this loan are 
taken into account. 
Lendable accepts this is the case. But it nonetheless says that our adjudicators assessment 
this failed to recognise that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. And 
therefore it was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr Js monthly repayments to credit would 
reduce rather than increase. 
Ive thought about what Lendable said. But Mr J wasnt going to be able to clear all of his 
outstanding balances with this loan. And while this in itself doesnt mean that it was 
unreasonable to proceed with a consolidation loan, its unclear to me how or what was going 
to be consolidated and more crucially how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous 
terms, was going to reduce Mr Js outgoings going forward. So I dont think that it was 
reasonable for Lendable to accept the recorded loan purpose at face value in these 
circumstances. 
Equally, while its possible Mr Js over indebtedness reflected his choices rather than 
financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, 
in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Lendable, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mr Js version of events. And Im persuaded by what Mr J has said 
about already being in a difficult financial position at the time.
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Js existing financial position meant that he was unlikely 
to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have 
shown Lendable that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr J. As Lendable provided Mr J 
with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards 
him. 
Mr J ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr J lost out because of what Lendable did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lendable needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, Lendable should put things right for Mr J by:
refunding all interest, fees (including loan fees) and charges Mr J paid on his loan; 
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr J to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file as a result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to take off tax from this interest. Lendable 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Lendable Ltd should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman