DRN-4276853
The complaint
Mrs K complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds refusal to cover claims made under her 
private medical insurance cover for treatment of migraines.
What happened
Mrs K holds private medical insurance cover with Bupa. She has a special exclusion on her 
policy for treatment of migraines that was applied when she took out the policy.
Mrs K later made a claim for a consultation as she was experiencing vision problems. She 
told Bupa her vision problems were followed by a migraine. Bupa authorised the 
consultation, but advised Mrs K that if her vision problems were found to be due to 
migraines, the claim would not be covered because of the exclusion. Unhappy with this, 
Mrs K brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for Bupa to link Mrs Ks vision problems to the excluded condition of migraines. 
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ks application was fully underwritten. That meant she gave Bupa information about her 
medical history when taking out the policy. Based on this, Bupa excluded any treatment that 
is for, results from or is related to migraines. 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Bupa to do this, as it is up to an insurer what risks it is 
willing to cover. Mrs K was made aware of the exclusion and went ahead with the policy. 
That means Bupa doesnt need to accept any claims for the treatment of migraines. 
Bupa says it authorised the consultation in error as it considers it is more likely than not that 
Mrs Ks symptoms were related to migraines. The NHS says that migraines can cause vision 
problems (and Mrs Ks vision problems were then followed by a migraine), so I think it was 
reasonable for Bupa to conclude that Mrs Ks symptoms were likely related to migraines. 
Nonetheless, Bupa has said that because it told Mrs K that it would authorise the 
consultation, then it would honour this. I think that was fair. 
If it is found that Mrs Ks symptoms dont result from or are not related to migraines, then she 
may be able to claim for treatment under the policy. Mrs K should speak to Bupa directly 
about making a claim if thats the case.
Mrs K has asked me to consider the fairness of a scenario which doesnt apply to her. She 
thinks it supports her view that it is unfair for an insurer to exclude conditions such as 
migraines. However, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on or make a finding on 
circumstances that dont apply here. My role is to consider whether a business has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the complaint brought to this Service. For the reasons Ive explained 
above, Im satisfied that Bupa has done so here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman