DRN-3631926
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice David Stock & Co Limited (DSC) gave to him to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr H employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The BSPS trustees provided scheme members with an important update in August 2017. 
They said that the members employer had made an expected payment into the BSPS of 
£550 million, as part of its agreement with The Pension Regulator and that was likely to 
result in an improvement to transfer values. The confirmation that the employer had made 
the payment referred to was announced on 11 September 2017.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. I 
haven't been provided with a copy of the pack sent to Mr H. But I'm aware those gave 
scheme members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
Members were given until 22 December 2017 to make their choice between the PPF and the 
BSPS2. 
On 16 January 2018 the BSPS administrators sent Mr H some information about his 
entitlement under the BSPS. That included that his DB fund had a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £279,585.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
Mr H contacted DSC on 23 January 2018 asking to meet with it. DSC emailed him some 
generic information concerning DB transfers. It also asked him to complete a single page 
questionnaire and to send it some documents about his DB scheme fund value. Mr H 
returned the questionnaire and the required information the next day. He confirmed his 
personal details, including that he was married, he and his wife were both working and they 
had two children under nine. He also provided the information about his DB fund including its 
CETV.
On 25 January 2018 DSC sent Mr H its Initial Report. This said Mr H was 37 years old and 
his early retirement age was 58. It said it had obtained a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS') which showed that the growth rate required to match the benefits from the DB 
scheme (the critical yield) was 4.35%. DSC said that was achievable for someone with a 
moderate attitude to risk.
The Initial Report added that Mr H had asked for advice after receiving his CETV and 
because he possibly felt it was more advantageous to have the funds under his personal 
control. It set out some of the benefits of a DB scheme and the risks involved with a transfer 
away from one. DSC said it would generally dissuade people from transferring from a DB 
scheme but the BSPS members principal reasons for ignoring that was because they 
preferred the flexibility a personal pension offered. And also because they found the death 
benefits from a personal pension more attractive. DSC also cautioned that death benefits 
from a DB scheme could prove to be well in excess of those available from a personal 
pension.
DSC said that if Mr H understood the advantages and disadvantages of a transfer to a 
personal pension it could help him to identify investment funds which suited him. It 
recommended Mr H invest in a named SIPP. That gave options of investing in passive 
funds, which are managed in house by the provider or using a discretionary fund manager 
(DFM)  who would actively manage the funds on Mr Hs behalf.
Mr H met with DSC on 30 January 2018. He completed a detailed fact-find. When asked for 
his preferred retirement age, the box was left blank. The questionnaire recorded that Mr H 
and his wife owned their home, which was valued at £425,000 subject to a mortgage of 
£112,000 due to be repaid when Mr H was 62 years old. He had no recorded assets or 
savings. He had no experience of investing in the investment markets, save for his 
employers defined contribution (DC) pension which had recently been set up. DSC 
recorded Mr Hs priorities as looking for flexibility of taking a pension earlier and the ability 
to pass the monies on to his children. 
DSC also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it calculated to be 
speculative. 
Mr H signed the forms to transfer his DB scheme funds to the named SIPP the same day. 
He also accepted DSCs terms of business agreeing to pay it £2,795 for its transfer advice 
and 0.1% of his funds value for its ongoing service.
DSC set up a meeting between Mr H, itself and a named DFM on 9 February 2018. The 
DFM recommended an investment portfolio for Mr H. In June 2018 the named SIPP provider 
confirmed the funds had been transferred into the SIPP.
In 2022 Mr H wrote to DSC. He said hed received a letter from the regulator, which had 
raised concerns that DSC might have provided unsuitable advice for him. 
DSC provided a lengthy response to Mr Hs concerns in May 2022. Amongst other things it 
said that Mr Hs strategy was to take early retirement before the DB scheme would permit. It said its advice was suitable as it was in line with Mr Hs attitude to risk, his goals and 
objectives. It said it had made Mr H aware of the risks involved. It added that it had given 
clear information and he had made a fully informed decision. It also believed it was clear that 
Mr H would have gone ahead with the transfer regardless of what it had advised him to do. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us. One of our Investigators spoke with him. He told the 
Investigator that, at the time of the advice, he didnt have particular plans to retire early and 
that DSC had initially told him that one of the benefits of transferring was that he could retire 
from age 55 onwards. He said he was considering taking early retirement, perhaps at age 
60, but had no concrete plans to do so. 
The Investigator didnt think that DSCs advice was suitable for Mr H. The Investigator 
recommended Mr Hs complaint be upheld. He said DSC should establish if Mr H had 
suffered a financial loss as a result of its unsuitable advice and if so pay him compensation, 
including £300 to address his distress and inconvenience. The Investigator said DSC should 
calculate any loss on a comparison with the BSPS2 benefits.
DSC didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. It focused its 
comments on the Investigators recommendation that any comparison for loss should be 
based upon the BSPS2. DSC said that at the time of its advice the BSPS2 had still not been 
established. So it argued that any loss calculation should be based on a comparison with the 
PPF. 
Another of our Investigators looked into the matter. She spoke with Mr H, who told her that 
his recollection was that hed most likely opted into the BSPS2 prior to approaching DSC for 
advice. Our Investigator responded to DSC saying that, in those circumstances, she felt that 
our initial Investigators assessment and recommendation for redress was reasonable.
As DSC didnt agree with our Investigators assessments of the complaint it was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DSCs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DSC should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in 
Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
DSCs advice process
After Mr Hs initial enquiry to DSC, it gathered some bare bones information about him and 
his family. It also asked him to pass on the details the BSPS administrators had provided 
about his CETV and entitlement under that scheme. From that information it produced a 
TVAS report and sent Mr H its Initial Report. That report included a recommendation that 
Mr H should transfer his DB funds to a SIPP. But, at that time, DSC hadn't met with Mr H to 
collect his full fact-find information nor done any assessment of his attitude to risk. Instead it 
seems that, based on its experience with other members of the BSPS, DSC has assumed 
Mr H would: want early retirement; prefer to access his funds flexibly; and find the death 
benefits from a personal pension favourable. And DSC made its recommendation on the 
basis of those assumptions, without actually speaking with Mr H to find out if those were 
accurate or establishing if those were in Mr Hs best interests. 
Having met and spoken with Mr H theres no evidence that DSC issued a further report to 
update its recommendation. I think that was a flaw in its process. When making a 
recommendation to transfer the regulator requires DSC to issue a suitability report that 
reflects the information the consumer has given to it. But in this instance I dont think DSC 
had enough information to do that when it issued its Initial Report. For example, that report 
says that Mr Hs early retirement age was 58. But at that time, as far as I can see, DSC 
hadn't asked him when he wanted to retire. So its not clear where that early retirement age 
came from. And, in its response to Mr Hs complaint, DSC referred to Mr H having a 
preferred retirement age of 62. But theres nothing on the file I've seen which says Mr H 
gave that early retirement age either. So it seems the only personal elements of DSCs 
recommendation report (its Initial Report) were the figures relating to Mr Hs entitlement from 
the DB scheme, everything else appears to be generic. 
I dont find DSCs approach reasonable. Transferring from a DB scheme is a major decision. 
Once transferred there's no going back. The benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost 
forever. So, regardless that DSC might have thought its assumptions about Mr H were 
accurate, I think it should have waited until it had confirmed Mr Hs wants and needs. And 
only then produced a report setting out its analysis and recommendations ensuring those 
were in Mr Hs best interests.. But in this instance it didn't do that. 
Financial viability 
When referring to financial viability, I mean how likely it was that Mr H would be better off in 
terms of retirement income by transferring. DCS carried out a TVAS (as the regulator required) showing how much Mr Hs pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme 
(the critical yield). DSCs TVAS provided the critical yield for the BSPS2 at age 65 as being 
4.35% if Mr H took a full pension. It said that if Mr H chose to take a tax free cash (TFC) 
lump sum and a reduced pension, then that critical yield could reduce to less than 4.0%. 
But its apparent that 4% critical yield is an estimate only and theres no figure given for how 
much the TFC would likely be. So, it seems that DSC has provided its advice, to some 
extent, based on an estimate rather than actual figures. 
Also, DSC made an assumption that Mr H would prefer to retire early. But it didnt provide 
any figures for what Mr Hs entitlement from the scheme could be if he chose to retire early 
or what the critical yields would be to match those benefits. Had it done so, I think its likely 
the critical yield figures would have increased. Thats because the funds would have been 
invested for a shorter time before Mr H accessed them. Those funds would also then need to 
support Mr H for a longer time in retirement. So, in order to allow Mr H to make an informed 
decision I think DSC should have established at what age(s) Mr H was considering retiring 
from and provided him with accurate figures about his entitlements from both the BSPS2 and 
the PPF at those ages together with the critical yields required to match them. But it didn't do 
that.
DSC said that the critical yield to match the BSPS2 at age 65, without taking TFC, was 
4.35%. It said that figure was on the reasonable side of acceptable. In other words it felt 
that investing in a SIPP was likely to match the BSPS2 benefits. I've considered that further 
below.
DSC gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 the 
Financial Ombudsman Service published similar rates on our website. Whilst businesses 
weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide 
a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
We dont have any critical yield figures if Mr H were to take early retirement at any age, but 
at age 65 it was 4.35% if he took a full pension from the BSPS2. The critical yield if he were 
to take benefits from the PPF at age 65 reduced to 3.6%.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year for 27 full years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. The discount rate was marginally higher than 
the critical yield if Mr H took benefits from the BSPS2 at age 65. So there was a potential for 
him to be slightly better off if he retired at age 65 by transferring. But there would be little 
point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve a level of benefits outside the scheme that was broadly comparable to what he 
would receive from remaining in it. Thats because, in order for the potential to improve 
slightly on the DB scheme benefits, he would need to put those funds at risk. But here, given 
the discount rate was broadly equivalent to the critical yield to match the benefits from the 
BSPS2, then the scope for gains was small. And, if his fund had an extended period of poor 
performance or suffered losses then he would likely find himself worse off in retirement. Further, by transferring from the DB scheme Mr H would have to pay the fees and charges 
that are required in order to invest in a SIPP. And those would reduce any gains the funds 
made. Those are not charges he would have had to pay if his funds had remained in the DB 
environment. 
It follows that, while a transfer to a SIPP might have matched the benefits from the DB 
scheme, it was unlikely to greatly enhance his income in retirement. For this reason alone a 
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of course financial viability 
isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered 
this below. 
Flexibility and income needs
Its notable that, before Mr H had sat down with DSC to set out his objectives, DSC had 
assumed he would want to retire early and have flexible access to his retirement income. 
Given its experience of advising Mr Hs colleagues, this might have been a reasonable 
assumption. But that doesn't mean that transferring his DB funds was in Mr Hs best 
interests.
At the time, Mr H was over 20 years away from 58, the age DSC assumed was his 
preference in its Initial Report. And over 24 years away from 62  the early retirement age it 
used in its response to Mr Hs complaint. And Mr H has told us that he would like to retire 
early but still doesn't have any concrete plans to do so. But DSC has clearly identified early 
retirement as a key reason for recommending that Mr H transfer. 
However, it doesn't appear that DSC pointed out that Mr H could take early retirement while 
remaining in the DB scheme. Both the BSPS2 and the PPF allow for early retirement. 
Although, in both schemes the benefits have actuarial reductions to reflect the fact that the 
pension will  most likely  have to sustain him over a longer period. But theres no evidence 
DSC explained this to Mr H. In fact in its complaint response DSC said that Mr Hs 
retirement strategy was to retire before the BSPS scheme would permit. But the BSPS 
scheme would permit early retirement from age 55, the same age that was available from a 
SIPP. So I dont think DSCs advice was clear on this point. 
DSC also said that by transferring Mr H gained the opportunity to access his funds flexibly in 
retirement. But I cant see evidence that Mr H had a need to access his DB funds flexibly 
throughout his retirement. 
When he completed the fact-find Mr H said he thought hed need an income of £30,000 a 
year in retirement. Thats more than he would have been entitled to under the DB scheme. 
But, given he had over 20 years until he was likely to seriously consider retiring, and over 27 
years to the schemes normal retirement age, it was probably the case that he didn't know 
what his income needs would be in retirement. 
In addition Mr Hs DB funds were unlikely to be his only retirement provision. He had recently 
joined his employers DC pension scheme. The figures on file aren't precise but it seems that 
he and his employer together were contributing 12% of his salary towards that pension. At 
that time that would have been around £6,400 a year. He could have anticipated continuing 
to contribute to that pension (or a similar one if he were to change jobs in the future) for the 
remainder of his working life. 
So I think its reasonable to assume that, by the time Mr H reached early retirement age, his 
DC pension should have built a sizeable pot. Indeed without allowing for Mr H increasing his 
contributions, his salary growing, or any return on the investment, by age 60 he could have a pot in the DC pension of around £143,000. And that sum would increase to around £176,000 
by the time he reached 65. So Mr H could have accessed those funds in a flexible manner if 
he felt the need to do so. That would have allowed him to leave his safeguarded DB funds 
untouched. So he didnt need to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to take early 
retirement or to have some flexible access to funds in retirement.
It follows that Im satisfied Mr H could have met his flexible income needs in retirement while 
remaining in the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer out of the 
DB scheme environment just to have flexibility that he didnt need.
That said, its true to say that Mr H couldnt have had the same flexible access to his income 
from a DB scheme. While he could have chosen to take his benefits early, if hed wanted to 
take TFC then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income 
from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him to draw down funds as he 
saw fit. But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect to him as I've 
said above, if Mr H wanted flexible access to funds then he could have accessed his DC 
money in that manner. So he had no need to give up the guaranteed benefits from the DB 
scheme in order to have flexible access to funds or to take TFC.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension is generally an attractive feature to consumers. Thats because 
whatever was left within it at the date of the pension holders death would be passed on to 
their beneficiaries. And, for Mr H, if that happened before his retirement or soon after, then 
that would likely be a significant sum. In contrast the BSPS2 or PPF would pay Mr Hs wife 
half of his yearly pension after he died. And that pension would die with her. So Mrs H 
couldnt leave it as a legacy for their children if she died. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers and Mr H might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement not to provide a legacy to loved 
ones on death. And I dont think DSC explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Ive noted that, to its credit, DSC did explain that the widows benefits on offer from the DB 
scheme environment could be worth well in excess of a lump sum from a SIPP. But I think 
it could have done more to highlight that these were guaranteed and escalated. They were 
not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death from a 
SIPP was. And there may not have been a large sum left in the SIPP if Mr H lived a long life, 
the investments performed poorly or if he took large sums from the fund early in in his 
retirement. In any event, DSC should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a SIPP over his security in retirement.
Further, I'm aware that Mr H had death in service cover from his employer. So that would 
have paid a considerable lump sum in the event he died while still working for his employer. 
But, if he wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on his employment, 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think DSC 
should have instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that life insurance can be 
expensive. So, the starting point ought to have been for DSC to ask Mr H how much he 
would ideally like to leave to his family, and this could have been explored on a whole of life 
or term assurance basis. But there's little evidence it did so. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I understand that, like many of his colleagues Mr H, was most likely concerned about the 
prospect of his pension moving into the PPF. There was some widespread trepidation about 
what moving pensions to the PPF meant for scheme members. Its also well known that this 
was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr H. The closure of the BSPS had arisen largely 
because the employer could no longer support it. So many of Mr Hs colleagues were 
concerned that the BSPS2, once established, could suffer the same fate. But this only 
serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the requirement for suitable advice.
I understand there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived 
notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme. Its likely 
that Mr Hs concerns of that nature were a motivating factor in seeking advice and 
considering transferring his pension. So he might well have been leaning towards 
transferring his pension when he sought advice. But DSC was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of all the available 
options. 
A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement 
income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. But the 10% reduction didnt 
apply across the board, and for those taking early retirement at a young age, in some ways 
the PPF could actually be beneficial for scheme members as the benefits for those retiring 
were more generous than from the BSPS (or the BSPS2). And, while I understand that the 
prospect of pension benefits moving to the PPF was for some people rather daunting, its 
probably the case that it wasn't as significant as many BSPS scheme members believed it to 
be. And in order to recommend that Mr H should transfer out of his DB scheme, even if that 
scheme were to move to the PPF, DSC needed to be able to clearly demonstrate that doing 
so was in his best interests. But Im not persuaded that was the case for Mr H. 
I also think Mr Hs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr H was not 
an experienced investor, and I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed he eventually engaged and paid for 
the services of a DFM to do that for him. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr H  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
It seems to me that any requirement Mr H had for control related more to moving his 
pension away from an employer that he didnt trust or whose solvency was in question, 
rather than a desire to take a hands-on approach to investment management. 
So, I think DSC should have explained to Mr H that his employer and the trustees of the 
BSPS2 were not one and the same. And in any event, Mr H was not intending to leave his 
employment and his DC pension remained connected to his employer. So, transferring out of 
the DB scheme didnt separate his pension destiny from his employer. And I dont think that 
these concerns should have led to DSC recommending Mr H transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
Use of DFM 
DSC recommended that Mr H use a named DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr H should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if DSC 
had given suitable advice. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But DSC 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice DSC gave to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was putting his income 
security in retirement at risk and was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And, in my 
view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
DSC shouldnt have advised Mr H to transfer out of the scheme for flexibility or early 
retirement options he could have had while remaining in the scheme or because of his 
concerns over the PPF. These things weren't worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
his DB scheme.
So, I think DCS should have advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme. DSC advised Mr H 
after the time to choose exercise had concluded. Mr Hs recollection is that he opted into 
the BSPS2 at that time. On the balance of probabilities I think thats most likely what 
happened. The benefits from the BSPS2 were generally more generous than those from the 
PPF and Mr H would have had to make a decision on that before he ever approached DSC. 
So I think its likely hed already chosen to opt into the BSPS2 at the point he sought advice. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against DSCs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against DSCs advice. I say this because Mr H was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision. So, if DSC had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that 
advice.
In light of the above, I think DSC should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. As I'm satisfied that 
Mr H had already opted into the BSPS2, DSC will need to use those benefits as a 
comparator when calculating redress. 
Also, as I think that learning that he might have unnecessarily put his pension funds at risk 
was a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr H, I think DSC should also pay him £300 
to address that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely remained in the DB scheme and joined the BSPS2 if DSC had given suitable 
advice. 
DSC must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. DSC should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. If DSC 
does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision department of 
the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS calculator output 
should be sent to Mr H and the Financial Ombudsman Service upon completion of the 
calculation together with supporting evidence of what DSC based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, DSC should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts DSCs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, DSC may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
I also think DSC should pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
unsuitable advice.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require David Stock & Co 
Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
David Stock & Co Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on David Stock & Co 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman