DRN-3075749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about the breakdown cover they have which is underwritten by 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV).
Any reference I make to LV also includes its agents.
What happened
On 31 March 2021, Mrs N was out in her car when the warning lights came on, so she called 
LV breakdown to support her. Mrs N says the technician arrived after around 80 minutes and 
topped up the water level. And she says the technician told her the car was safe to drive. 
While Mrs N was driving the 20 miles home, the warning lights came on again. However, she 
continued with her journey given that the technician had already told her the car was safe to 
drive  and because she thought she couldnt make a repeat call out for the same issue. 
Mrs N says she took the car to the garage later that day. They advised her that shed need 
to spend £590 plus VAT to remove and replace the cylinder so it could diagnose what the 
fault was. She says she was told by the garage that the repairs could cost up to £3,000.
Mrs N says she decided to sell her car because it was only worth £4,720, and because the 
repairs could have been up to £3,000, so she didnt think it would be economical for her to 
continue with the repairs. She says the car had been off the road for a month and she 
needed a replacement car anyway.
Because of the fault with the car, the best price Mrs N could get for it was £2,250. But she 
holds LV responsible for being out of pocket for the difference between what she got, and 
the market value had there been no issues with the car  she says this is around £2,470.
Mrs N says that she has since been advised by a relative that she shouldnt have continued 
with her journey because the car was losing coolant and overheating. She says that the cars 
engine had cooled down by the time LV arrived to help her, and so this is why there was no 
warning light showing when they arrived. She says her car was running well when she set 
out on her journey, and by the end of the day it had damage which she says has left her 
£2,470 out of pocket. 
In order to resolve things, Mr and Mrs N would like compensating for their financial loss. 
LV responded to Mr and Mrs Ns complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that after the 
technician had topped the car up with water, there were no warning lights and no apparent 
leaks. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs N too, but they didnt think that LV had 
done anything wrong. It found that there wasnt anything in the policy documents that 
prevented Mrs N from making another call out to LV after the warning light came on again. 
They thought that the engineer had done enough to check the car to ensure it was okay to 
drive. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree  and I have summarised the main points they raised below:
The technician only ran the car for around five minutes and so couldnt have brought 
the engine up to temperature. 
If LV had diagnosed the problem correctly in the first place, they wouldnt have 
needed to make another call out. Its not reasonable to expect someone to make 
more than one call out in the same journey.
LV have said that it wont review the case without supporting evidence to confirm the 
damage  but Mr and Mrs N have already explained why they cant provide this. 
They say that the fact the vehicle was working when Mrs N set out on the journey, 
and then by the end of the day it was deemed not worth repairing should be 
sufficient.
The technician should have realised there was a more serious problem.
Because Mr and Mrs N didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to them, as I know how strongly they feel 
about their case. But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider 
what both parties have said. And I have to look to see if LV has acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint, Id have to think it more likely than not, that LVs 
technician caused additional damage to Mr and Mrs Ns car by advising Mrs N to continue to 
drive it. And for me to be able to do this, Id need to understand what the fault with the car 
was. 
Mrs N has already told this service that in order to diagnose the fault, shed have needed to 
have paid £590 plus VAT to replace the cylinder  and she didnt do this because the repairs 
could have been very expensive on top of this. I can understand why Mr and Mrs N made 
the choice they did to not spend the additional money to get the fault diagnosed. But without 
a diagnosis, the cause of the fault remains unknown. And so, it wouldnt be fair me to say 
that the advice from LV was wrong or caused additional damage to the car because I dont 
know if this is the case or not. 
I know Mr and Mrs N think that the fact the car was fine at the start of the journey and then 
later deemed not economical to repair should be evidence enough that the advice LV gave 
was wrong. But I dont think I can agree with this comment. Clearly there was an issue with 
the car before LV arrived, otherwise Mrs N wouldnt have contacted it for assistance. And 
because no work had been carried out at the garage to diagnose the fault, I cant fairly say 
that the damage is likely to have got worse after the technician had looked at it. Based on 
what Mr and Mrs N have said, the garage they used said the repairs could cost £3,000  but 
they couldnt determine this without replacing the cylinder  so its possible that the repairs 
also could have cost less.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs N say that they werent aware they could call LV again for the same 
fault in the same journey  it isnt clear where they got this information from. But Ive 
checked the policy documents and there isnt anything of this nature in them. Mr and Mrs N 
say that they shouldnt have needed to call LV out again anyway, because the car should have been checked over more thoroughly in the first place. But I think it would have been 
reasonable for them to make a second call if the issue with the car persisted. 
Ive looked at the technicians comments from when they were asked about the call out to Mr 
and Mrs Ns car, they said that the water was low, and so they topped it up. They also didnt 
find any leaks, and there were no warning lights present when the car started again. So, I 
think they did enough to check the car at the time. 
I appreciate Mrs N states that the technician didnt wait for the car to get up to temperature, 
because they only ran it for five minutes. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this 
was an inappropriate amount of time. Its probably also worth noting here that the checks 
that can be carried out at the roadside are limited  the technicians dont have the facility to 
carry out an in-depth diagnosis of a fault  they can only look to see if there are immediate or 
noticeable problems with the car. The technician found it likely that the problem was down to 
low water levels, and given that there werent any noticeable leaks, I dont find that the 
advice they provided was unreasonable. And like Ive said, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that the advice they gave caused additional damage to the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman