DRN-2223623
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave her a loan and 
dealt with her.
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs S says she should not have been offered the loan. But the way Bank of Scotland 
assesses who to offer a loan to, is a matter for it to determine based on its lending 
criteria and is an example of it exercising its commercial discretion in which we will 
not get involved.
It is not now possible to say exactly what happened in Mrs S interactions with Bank 
of Scotlands staff including in the branch. But I think her account of finding the 
experience in the branch challenging is plausible, not least given her personal 
situation and individual issues. 
That was unfortunate. But, as Bank of Scotland says it was not aware of them or her 
discomfort. And Mrs S couldve stopped the meeting in the branch at any time and 
asked for any help if she needed it.  
The simple fact remains that Mrs S, despite any reservations she had, took out the 
loan willingly and used the money borrowed on the same day it was paid to her to 
pay off some credit card balances and the remaining balance was later used for other 
purposes. So, on balance I do not think I can reasonably conclude the loan was mis-
sold or that it would now be fair to require Bank of Scotland to cancel it.
Even so, I think Bank of Scotland could reasonably have given Mrs S more and 
clearer information on the loans cooling off period and been more helpful when she 
went into the branch to enquire about how to go about exercising her right to cancel 
it. It couldve also been more accommodating when asked to give her the terms and 
conditions in large print. 
Mrs S has also complained that Bank of Scotland has reduced the credit limits on 
some of her accounts and cards. The bank says this was a condition of the loan and 
was explained to Mrs S at the outset and agreed. Whatever happened, the setting of 
credit limits is an example of the bank exercising its commercial discretion in which I 
cannot interfere. And I cannot require it to now change them back to previous levels 
or increase them as she would like. 
If Mrs S remains unhappy about her credit limits, is now in financial difficulty or 
requires a further interest holiday, she will have to contact the bank to discuss her 
needs and provide the information it requires to assess her situation. And if she 
remains unhappy, she can raise a further complaint with Bank of Scotland about the 
way it is currently treating her.
Mrs S would also like an independent inquiry into how Bank of Scotland lends money 
to vulnerable people. But we can only consider what happened in Mrs S case not its 
policy to a group of customers generally. We are also not a regulator and cannot fine 
or punish a bank or require it to change its processes and procedures.
For these reasons I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
I think the way Bank of Scotland dealt with Mrs S likely caused her some unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. And I agree with the investigator that this warrants a payment of 
some compensation. 
Taking everything into account, including the amounts we award, I agree with the 
investigator that £150 compensation is fair for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
To put things right it should now pay Mrs S £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman