DRN-1942633
The complaint
Mr B says Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited wrongly decided hed lost all the rights 
he had under his commercial motor insurance policy as hed made a fraudulent claim on it.   
What happened
On 4 October 2018 Mr B told Markerstudy hed driven into the rear of a truck at a 
roundabout. He said he thought it had moved off because he was blinded by the sun. 
Markerstudy had the damage to his taxi assessed by a garage. Markerstudys engineer 
removed from the garages estimate a sum it had set out for scratches along the left-hand 
side of the car. The engineer couldnt see how it they were related to the collision. 
Markerstudy contacted Mr B to tell him about the issue, and he said the side damage was 
part of the same accident. He said the truck he drove into had overtaken along the left-hand 
side of his car - causing the scratches to it - before pulling in ahead of him. As Mr B hadnt 
said this before, Markerstudy put the repairs on hold, so it could consider the claim further.
 
After the independent firm of engineers Markerstudy instructed (firm A) had inspected the 
car on 19 October 2018, it said the side damage wasnt consistent with being caused by a 
truck. Firm A also said the damage to the side was older than that to the front, and that the 
scratches ran from the front of Mr Bs car to the rear. Markerstudy asked Mr B for an 
explanation. He said he didnt know there was any side damage until the garage pointed it 
out. He said Markerstudy should delete it from the claim and pay for the other damage. 
Markerstudy told Mr B it thought hed given it false information with the intention of having 
repairs for two claims dealt with as one, which was an offence under the Fraud Act 2006. It 
said his actions also breached a general policy condition. The condition said that any 
fraudulent statement made to obtain a benefit under the policy (such as having two separate 
sets of repairs done under one claim) would mean all rights under the policy were lost.  
As Mr B disagreed with Markerstudys decision, he complained to this service. One of our 
investigators reviewed what had happened. She thought Markerstudy had acted reasonably 
in carrying out a further investigation when Mr B changed the details hed originally set out. 
She thought it had acted in line with firm As expert opinion and with the terms of Mr Bs 
policy. As Mr B remained unhappy, his complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The recordings of the calls made by Mr B to report the claim show that he didnt mention that 
the truck had overtaken along the passenger side of his car before pulling in front of him. I 
can see why Markerstudy found that strange, if in doing so, the truck had caused scratches 
all along its side. I think most consumers would have reported any contact with another 
vehicle that happened just before a rear collision with that vehicle.
When the advisor who took the details of the claim asked about the damage to the car, Mr B 
talked about the state of the bonnet, the bumper and the lights. The advisor then asked 
about pre-existing damage. Mr B said there wasnt any, but later in the call (almost in 
passing) he said there were scratches along the full left-hand side of the car. The advisor 
didnt query that (and Mr B didnt elaborate) but it seems Mr B knew about that damage from 
the outset. 
When Markerstudy contacted Mr B to let him know that it had removed the cost of repairing 
the side damage from the garages estimate, he could simply have accepted it. The side 
damage could have been left unrepaired. Alternatively, Mr B could have paid for it to be 
repaired himself. Instead, the call recordings show that he said the side damage was part of 
the accident hed reported, but that he hadnt noticed the truck touching the side of this car at 
the time. I can see why Markerstudy found that hard to accept.
Mr B thinks Markerstudy caused undue delay by having his car inspected by firm A. I think it 
was fair for it to do that. Mr B had added to the details hed first provided, in a way that would 
have increased the cost of the claim. I also think it was fair for Markerstudy to rely on firm As 
independent findings. Mr B said the truck overtook his car to the left, moving forward. But 
Firm A said the scratches went from the front of Mr Bs car to the rear - so they could only 
have been caused by something moving along the side of Mr Bs car in the other direction.  
In my opinion, Markerstudy carried out a full investigation, within a reasonable time, before 
making a decision. I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that Mr B had falsely 
exaggerated his claim in order to get a benefit under the policy, and that in doing so hed lost 
his rights under it. As I think Markerstudy acted reasonably, in line with the law and with the 
terms of Mr Bs policy, I cant uphold his complaint.   
      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
27 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman