DRN-2115117
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have unfairly reduced the terminal 
bonus of his mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
Mr O took out a 25 year mortgage endowment policy with Aviva in May 1995. The policy 
matured in May 2020 and paid a total sum of £38,000. However, Mr O complained about this 
as he says he was promised an amount of around £40,600 just two months before when 
Aviva wrote to him on 21 March 2020 setting out his estimated maturity value. Mr O alleges 
that Aviva have stolen the money from him.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Aviva had made it clear that 
the amount quoted in March 2020 was just an estimate and was subject to change, and that 
they reserved this right, which had also been explained in previous correspondence sent 
over the years. Mr O disagreed, as he does not think it is fair that Aviva can arbitrarily reduce 
the terminal bonus in the space of a couple of months. 
As Mr O disagreed, the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
Mr O says he has not been told how Aviva have calculated the terminal bonus applied upon 
his policys maturity, and that he considers them to have stolen around £2,000 from the 
value of his policy.
In terms of the total estimated maturity value, I think its important to point out that this isnt 
money that has been taken away from Mr Os plan. This is because it was a prospective 
value which Aviva wouldve anticipated they could achieve with the terminal bonus. It was 
only an estimate and was never money that was in his plan all along that has been clawed 
back at the last moment; it is just that the anticipated value wasnt achieved. So I dont 
consider it to be the case that £2,000 has gone missing and that Aviva now need to explain 
where it has gone.
A share of Mr Os plans final value would have been accounted for by the terminal bonus. 
But whereas annual bonuses are guaranteed, the terminal bonus was not. And I can see 
that Aviva made it clear in their letter of 21 March 2020 that the value quoted was only an 
estimate: 
We cant yet give you the final value of your policy, but we can give you an estimate, 
which can go down as well as up.
We dont know the final maturity value of your policy until the day your policy 
matures. Well calculate the value of your policy on that day. Until then, we can only 
provide you with an estimate. 
So, although Aviva quoted £40,675.47 in March 2020  they are not obligated to pay this. 
Aviva said that the bonus rate was subsequently revised between March 2020 and May 
2020 where it was reduced in response to market conditions. I appreciate they may not have 
gone into a great amount of detail about all the various factors that might have affected the 
bonus rate. But this can depend on a number of things, such as the cost of the insurance 
business, as well the need to smooth bonuses from year to year (where some of the profits 
are held back during good years to boost the profits during the bad years to avoid any 
drastic fluctuations).
The reality is that bonuses are typically arrived at using a variety of factors and formulae that 
are calculated by an actuary. And the actuaries will decide how much of the funds profits are 
paid as a bonus and how much will be kept in reserve to help with smoothing as explained 
above. But I wouldnt have expected Aviva to have disclosed complex or detailed 
breakdowns of their actuarial calculations to Mr O, as this is commercially sensitive 
information. 
Aviva explained to Mr O that the final value of his plan could rise as well as fall. And the fact 
that the final bonus rate was lower when it was calculated at the point of maturity does not 
mean that Aviva have treated Mr O unfairly or have stolen his money  it is simply a result of 
the market/fund conditions prevailing at that moment in time. So, in the circumstances, I will 
not be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman