DRN-3609455
The complaint
Mrs Y, who is represented by a third party, says Studio Retail (Studio Retail), trading as 
Ace, irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that interest and late payment charges she 
paid on the account from October 2016 be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about an Ace shopping account Studio Retail provided to Mrs Y. The 
account was opened in October 2016 when Mrs Y was given an initial credit limit of £100. 
This limit was increased 12 times until it eventually reached £1,950 in February 2020. 
Mrs Y also complained to us about two other Studio Retail accounts. Our adjudicator has 
found that these complaints were brought to us too late under our rules, so I wont be 
looking at those accounts in this decision.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ys complaint and thought that Studio Retail ought to 
have realised Mrs Y simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by 
the time it offered Mrs Y the increased credit limit on her account from £665 to £790 in July 
2018.
Studio Retail said it said it carried out appropriate checks given the relatively low level of 
initial credit given. It also said the credit limit increases were granted based on affordability 
scoring and checking with credit reference agencies. 
As Studio Retail disagrees with our adjudicator, the complaint has now been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs Y could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought Studio Retail shouldnt have provided 
Mrs Y with any further credit from July 2018 onwards, when her credit limit was increased on 
the eighth occasion, from £665 to £790. Our adjudicator did this having received copies of 
Mrs Ys bank statements as well as reviewing her credit report. 
Nonetheless in preparing this decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails 
lending history with Mrs Y, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Studio Retail should have realised that it 
shouldnt have increased Mrs Ys credit limits.
When Mrs Y opened her account in October 2016, Studio Retail has told us there were 
no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, 
and taking into account the low opening credit limit of £100 she was given, I dont think 
there is enough evidence or information to suggest that it would have been 
unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the account. However, Ive seen that 
Studio Retail didnt ask about Mrs Ys income, and this may have helped it begin to build 
a picture of Mrs Ys financial circumstances. 
Going forwards, taking into account that Studio Retail was giving Mrs Y regular credit limit 
increases I think it ought to have taken steps to verify her income and committed 
expenditure. I agree with our adjudicator that by August 2017, having already given Mrs Y 
four credit limit increases that year, Studio Retail ought to have been doing more to carry 
out proportionate checks on her financial situation. I further agree that a point was reached 
in July 2018, when giving Mrs Y her sixth limit increase that year, that Studio Retail ought 
to have seen that she was likely getting into difficulty with managing her money to the 
extent that her total level of borrowing was unsustainable. 
I say this having noted that Mrs Y had been making minimum payments to her account for 
at least nine consecutive months by this point. By then - when Mrs Ys credit was increased 
from £665 to £790  I dont think she would have been able to continue making sustainable 
payments. Our adjudicator noticed that Mrs Ys committed expenditure appeared to be at 
around £2,780, taking into account her mortgage, other unsecured borrowings (including 
loans and credit cards) plus her regular housing and living costs. But her household income 
only came to around £2,300, taking into account her salary, child benefit and contribution from her partner. This wouldnt have left her with any disposable income to manage the 
account  in other words she would be in a negative disposable income situation. 
Ive seen that Mrs Y made larger payments to her existing credit card account during this 
month, rather than the minimum payments. But Ive also kept in mind that her credit report 
shows she had just arranged a loan for £4,200 in June 2018, with monthly repayments of 
£286. Its very possible that the increased credit card payments were made as a result of 
this loan. But in any event, I can see that going forward Mrs Y likely would have been left 
with no or very little disposable income if she continued to service her ongoing level of 
unsecured borrowing. And I can see that her financial position continued to worsen in the 
months that followed. 
It follows that I think better proportionate checks, such as asking Mrs Y about her income 
and committed expenditure and taking steps to verify it, will have likely shown Studio Retail 
that by July 2018 Mrs Y was already struggling to manage the credit and still keep up with 
her day-to-day living expenses alongside her other debt commitments. In short, 
Studio Retail ought to have done more than simply relying on the way she was managing 
her account.
To summarise, I consider that Studio Retail actions in further increasing Mrs Ys credit 
limits on this account unfairly prolonged her indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she 
couldnt afford over an extended period of time, with the result that her indebtedness 
continued to increase. So Studio Retail should put things right.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Mrs Ys account to ensure that from July 2018 onwards interest is only 
charged on balances up to £665, including any buy now pay later interest (being the 
credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also 
be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Mrs Y to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Mrs Y has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from July 2018 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs Y, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Ys credit file from July 2018 
onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Mrs Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Ys complaint. Studio Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman