DRN-1327520
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has closed his current account and will apply a default 
against his credit file.
What happened
Mr A had a current account with Lloyds, and he contacted it in mid-2018 to say that he was 
struggling to afford the charges being applied. He was having financial difficulties and was 
unable to work because of his health. Mr A was overdrawn and was being charged a daily 
fee. 
Lloyds completed a financial assessment with Mr A and discussed closing his account as he 
was unable to maintain it. But Mr A didnt think this would help his financial situation. 
Lloyds arranged for £100 of fees to be refunded back to Mr As account balance and referred 
his account to its customer priority team so that could look to best support his situation. 
During this time, the fees were stopped. Lloyds asked Mr A for some additional information 
to help with this, but it didnt get a response from him. 
Lloyds then reviewed Mr As account and refunded a further £125.85 of fees. It also agreed 
to continue the stop of the fees for a further three months to give Mr A time to agree a 
repayment plan. 
Lloyds then received the requested information from Mr A and reviewed his account again. 
The fees were placed on a further hold but restarted again when Mr A didnt respond to its 
letters.
Mr A complained as he felt the advice about closing the account had caused him stress and 
didnt help. He felt hed told Lloyds about his situation, but it started charging him the fees 
again. He wanted these refunded. 
Lloyds acknowledged that the customer service Mr A had received had been poor and paid 
him £100 in compensation for this. However, it considered the actions it had taken to help 
him were correct. But it said that as he was not able to manage and maintain his account, it 
shouldve looked to close it sooner. 
Lloyds removed the arranged overdraft from the account and began action to close it. It 
placed a permanent freeze on fees being applied so Mr A could agree a repayment plan for 
the overdrawn balance. It also refunded a further £109.34 of fees. Lloyds told Mr A that 
when his account closed, a default would be registered which would remain on his credit file 
for six years. It said it would arrange for this to be backdated to November 2018, when it 
considered it should have acted to close his account. Lloyds suggested that Mr A should 
look to open an alternative bank account. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Lloyds could decide to withdraw an overdraft and demand its repayment at any 
time. It had given Mr A notice of this and had acted as the investigator wouldve expected. 
He said Mr A could now look to open another account either with Lloyds or elsewhere.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry to hear of Mr As situation and his health problems. I can understand that this 
has been a difficult time for him, and that he didnt want his account to be closed.
But having listened to the call recordings of his conversations with Lloyds representatives, 
and the assistance it has looked to provide him with, I dont think it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
I can see that it passed his account to its customer priority team where it looked to assess 
his financial and health situation to consider what help it could provide. During this time, the 
overdraft fees were suppressed, and it took steps to maintain contact with Mr A. Also, some 
of the overdraft fees Mr A had incurred were refunded to his account balance.
However, after considering Mr As situation based on the information he gave, and the 
medical report he supplied, Lloyds considered that Mr A was unable to maintain his account. 
This was because his income and outgoings meant he was unable to get to a situation that 
he wouldnt be overdrawn and so fees would carry on being applied. The action it took to 
close his account meant that his overdrawn balance would be passed to its recoveries 
department and he would no longer be charged fees for it. This meant that Mr As account 
would default, but it would also mean that he could agree a mutually acceptable repayment 
plan for his overdraft debt. 
Although I do appreciate that Mr A was hopeful that his situation would change, and that he 
would soon be in a position to start making payments towards the overdraft, I think that 
Lloyds actions were to help Mr A with his finances. 
And I think Lloyds gave Mr A appropriate notice that his account would be closed. I 
appreciate that Mr A has said he didnt receive the particular letter about this. However, 
Lloyds had discussed the situation with Mr A on several occasions, including that his 
account could be closed to prevent further overdraft fees applying and that he could apply 
for a basic bank account. And after it sent Mr A the letter explaining the closure of his 
account, Lloyds tried to call Mr A but was unable to speak with him. 
Taking everything into account, I think Lloyds took reasonable steps to let Mr A know that his 
account would be closed and what he needed to do in order to arrange for an alternative 
bank account to receive his incoming payments into. It also allowed him time to do this while 
making sure that Mr A was able to access these payments. I know that there were times 
through the closure process that Mr A couldnt withdraw his money through a cash machine; 
however, Lloyds temporarily lifted this to allow Mr A to withdraw what was available for him 
and gave him the alternative of visiting a branch to do this.
Lloyds has accepted that it shouldve taken action with Mr As account earlier than it did. And 
to put this right, it has paid Mr A £100 in compensation and has backdated the default of his 
account to November 2018.
 Overall, while I do understand Mr As strength of feeling about the actions Lloyds has taken 
and how this has upset him, I dont think that it has been unfair or unreasonable.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman