DRN-3252148
The complaint
Mr I and Mr I2 complain about the way that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has settled a curtailment claim they made on a travel insurance 
policy.
As Mr I brought the complaint on behalf of both parties, Ive referred only to him throughout 
this decision.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr I booked a multi-centre flights through an online travel agent. He was 
due to fly to a country Ill call P on 15 March 2020, before flying onto a country Ill call D. He 
planned to fly back to the UK on 29 March 2020. Mr I took out a single trip travel insurance 
policy on 23 February 2020 to cover the holiday.
Mr I travelled to P as planned. However, on 11 March 2020, World Health Organisation 
declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the FCO) advised UK nationals against all but 
essential travel abroad. Mr Is airline cancelled his flight from P to D on 22 March 2020. And 
on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK.
On this basis, Mr I booked and paid for a new return flight through another airline. He cut 
short his trip and flew back to the UK on 24 March 2020. He originally made a curtailment 
claim for £993.60, which represented his original cancelled flight and £2683.09, which 
represented the cost of the new flight. However, he later let Mapfre know that the online 
travel agent had offered him a credit of £993.60 for the cost of the original flight. So 
therefore, he asked for this particular cost to be withdrawn from the overall claim.
Mapfre accepted Mr Is claim for his new flight cost and partly settled it under the curtailment 
section of the policy. It deducted both the policy excess of £99 per person and the credit 
amount of £993.60 Mr I told it hed received from the travel agent. So it paid Mr I £1491.49 in 
settlement of the claim.
Mr I was unhappy with the settlement hed been paid. He didnt think it was fair for Mapfre to 
deduct the £993.60 hed indicated hed been offered as a credit amount from the cost of the 
new flights. He considered hed been left out of pocket by £993.60 and he felt Mapfre should 
include it in its overall settlement. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Is complaint should be upheld. She stated that Mr I would 
always have needed to pay for a return to the UK irrespective of whether hed needed to 
claim. Mr I had told Mapfre hed been offered a refund amount for the full cost of the 
cancelled original return flight in the form of a credit. So the investigator concluded that if 
Mapfre had also included this credit amount of £993.60 in its settlement, Mr I wouldve 
effectively been in a better position as a result of the claim. She felt that Mapfres settlement 
ensured Mr I hadnt had to pay anything more to return to the UK that hed originally booked 
and paid for. 
Mr I disagreed and Ive summarised his responses. He said he was in dispute with the 
original airline and the online travel agent and that he hadnt yet received an online credit or 
monetary refund of £993.60. He said hed paid £993.60 for a completed flight from the UK to 
P and then back again, but through no fault of his own, he couldnt complete the trip hed 
paid for. He suggested that the cost of the return portion of the flight was £496.80, but 
Mapfre had deducted £993.60 instead. He felt he was eligible for a refund of this amount 
under consumer legislation. And he felt a potential refund from the travel agent/and or 
original airline was the least it could offer him as compensation for awful service.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr I, I think Mapfre has settled his claim fairly 
and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Is policy and the circumstances of his 
claim, to decide whether Mapfre treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Is policy, as these form the basis of his contract with 
Mapfre. Theres no dispute that Mr I cut short his trip and returned to the UK, following the 
FCDO advising UK nationals abroad to do so. So I think it was appropriate for Mapfre to 
assess Mr Is claim in line with the Cancelling and cutting short your holiday section of the 
policy. This says Mapfre will pay for the following:
travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay under a 
contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid excursions, tours or 
activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or cutting short your trip; and
 reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting short your trip. 
(Emphasis added).
I think the contract terms make it sufficiently clear that Mapfre will cover a policyholders 
irrecoverable curtailment costs and extra travelling costs if theyre necessarily incurred in the 
curtailment of a policyholders trip.
On his claim form, Mr I set out that he was claiming for £2683.09 and £993.60  the costs of 
his new flight and his original pre-booked return flight. This was a total of £3676.69. 
However, once Mr I told Mapfre that his travel agent had offered him an air credit for the 
amount of £993.60, I think it was fair for Mapfre to conclude that this cost had been 
recovered and Mr I had received a full, effective refund of the cost of his original return flight 
costs. That meant Mr I was now claiming for additional travel costs of £2683.09.
Under the policy terms, Mapfre was entitled to deduct a curtailment excess of £99 per 
person  a total of £198. This left a balance of £2485.09. Mr I considers hes reasonably 
entitled to this amount in settlement of his claim, as he considers hes at a financial loss. Ive 
thought about this carefully. Were it not for the events surrounding Covid-19 and the 
resulting impact on international travel, Mr I wouldve flown to D as planned and then back 
on to the UK. Based on the costings he set out on his claim form, Im satisfied it was fair for 
Mapfre to conclude that that Mr Is original return flight wouldve cost him £993.60. But Mr I 
informed Mapfre that hed been offered a credit for this particular amount, which meant hed no longer suffered a financial loss for it.
In my view then, this meant that the extra travel costs the policy covered were any 
additional costs Mr I had to pay to curtail his trip on top of the £993.60 hed already paid for 
his original flight and which he said hed been able to get back. Based on the information Mr 
I gave Mapfre, I think it was reasonable for Mapfre to consider that Mr I would always have 
incurred a cost of £993.60 to return to the UK, regardless of Covid-19. As Mr I indicated hed 
been offered a credit for the cancelled original flight though, if Mapfre were to reimburse him 
the full repatriation flight cost less the excess, Mr I would essentially be getting a return flight 
for free. Thats because hed still have a credit amount of £993.60 to use, on top of the full 
cash settlement.
Travel insurance is a contract of indemnity. Its aim is to place policyholders in the same 
position they were in immediately prior to their insured financial loss. It isnt intended to put 
policyholders in a better position than theyd have been had the insured loss not occurred. 
If Mapfre were to pay Mr I the full amount of his claim less the excess, as Ive set out, I think 
hed be financially better off by £993.60 and would therefore effectively have been able to fly 
back from P at a zero cost. As such, I think Mr Is insured extra costs are the costs of the 
repatriation flight, less the policy excess, less what hed always have paid to return home. By 
deducting the amount Mr I suggested hed always originally paid to return to the UK from the 
claim amount, I think Mapfre has fairly indemnified him for his losses. This means that I find 
Mapfre has settled the extra costs Mr I incurred reasonably and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. Ive calculated this as follows:
£2683.09 - £198 excess = £2485.09
£2485.09 - £993.60 = £1491.49.
Im satisfied the settlement amount matches what Mapfre has already paid Mr I. Im satisfied 
that Mapfre has settled the claim fairly and Im not directing it to pay anything more based on 
the evidence which has so far been provided to it.
Mr I has now indicated that the cost of the return portion of his original flight was £496.80. So 
it seems that he now considers that Mapfre has deducted a higher portion for his return flight 
that it shouldve done. As Ive set out above, Mapfres calculations took into account the 
information Mr I had originally given it about the air credit. If in fact the credit was for a lower 
value, or Mr Is original return flight cost less than the value Mapfres attributed to it, then its 
open to Mr I to provide evidence of this to Mapfre for it to further consider.
And I note Mr I has also stated that hes now having difficulty in obtaining the air credit or a 
refund from the travel agent or original airline. Again, I think Mapfre was entitled to rely on 
the information Mr I gave it when it assessed his claim  he referred to the reimbursement 
so far of the airline credit of £993.60. But if Mr I is able to obtain evidence to show that, in 
fact, he hasnt been able to recover the costs of his original, cancelled flight, then he may 
send it to Mapfre for consideration. If Mr I is unhappy with the outcome of any new 
assessment of his claim following the submission of further evidence, he may be able to 
bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mr I2 to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman