DRN-3971445
The complaint
Mr T complains about the benefit hes been paid by The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited for an incapacity claim he made on an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I havent set it out in detail 
here. Instead, Ive set out what I think are the key events.
Mr T holds a personal income protection insurance policy, which provides cover for his own 
occupation.
In December 2020, Mr T was diagnosed with an illness, which resulted in chronic symptoms. 
He became unfit for work from February 2021 onwards, so he made a claim on the policy. 
On the claim form, he stated that he was a self-employed craftsman, supplemented with 
contract work. He provided Royal London with evidence of his self-employed earnings.
Royal London accepted Mr Ts claim and calculated benefit, in line with Mr Ts earnings in 
the year prior to his incapacity. 
Mr T was unhappy with the benefit calculation, as he felt it was too low. He noted that the 
policy included a term which allowed Royal London to assess income over a longer period, 
where a policyholders income had fluctuated. So he considered that Royal London should 
calculate benefit on his average earnings over a three-year period, which was more 
representative of his actual income. 
Royal London said that benefit had been calculated in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. But it said that it would consider further information from Mr T, such as evidence 
of earnings outside of those set out on Mr Ts P45; his tax returns; business plans or 
projections; bank statements/invoices for Mr Ts craft business and evidence of any 
payments from the governments Covid-19 support schemes. It also recognised thered been 
mistakes in the way it had handled the claim and paid Mr T total compensation of £450.
Mr T remained unhappy with Royal Londons position and he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator felt that Royal London had calculated the policy benefit fairly and 
in line with the contract terms and conditions. He didnt think Royal London needed to 
calculate an average of Mr Ts pre-incapacity earnings over a longer period. Thats because 
he didnt think it would reflect Mr Ts usual income. While Mr T earned a significantly higher 
earned income as an employee and contractor, in early 2020, hed started working as a 
craftsman, supplementing his income with contracting work. 
Mr T disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He said that prior to 
2019, hed worked in a series of short-medium term roles. So the fluctuation in his 
employment status is typical of his career throughout the life of the policy. Hed taken out the 
policy which covered fluctuating income, so that his earnings could be averaged over high 
and low years. Mr T said that at the time he became too unwell to work, his career as a 
craftsman was largely still aspirational  in reality, his role was still as a freelance contractor. 
He said his craft business hadnt been fully set-up.
While Mr T had taken some time out of work during 2019, he said his average earned 
income over three years remained above the amount required to maximise the value of the 
policy. He still felt the policy clause allowing Royal London to average his earnings should be 
applied to the claim. Mr Ts 2020-21 earnings had been very low due to the impact of Covid-
19 on his contracting work and hed been ill for some months. Therefore, his total income 
had been for only 7 months work, rather than 12. This meant that taking into account Mr Ts 
2020-21 earnings didnt lead to a fair assessment of his usual earned income.  He felt Royal 
London had relied on policy terms which werent set out clearly in the contract.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr T, I think Royal London has calculated 
benefit fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr T that whilst Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ts policy and the available evidence, 
to decide whether I think Royal London treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ts 
contract with Royal London. Page 12 of the policy sets out how disability benefit is calculated 
(and this information is broadly reflected in Mr Ts specific policy schedule.) The policy says:
The annual amount of disability benefit will be restricted to 50% of your pre-disability annual 
salary or earned income.
Royal London has defined what it means by earned income. As Mr T was self-employed, Ive 
set out below the relevant definition:
For a self-employed person, salary or earned income means:
-Your share of pre-tax profit (after deduction of trading expenses and adjustment for 
capital allowances) from your trade, profession or vocation for the purpose of Income 
Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005, Part 2 trading income in the 12 months 
prior to you becoming disabled; and or
-Your salary or earned income earned by HM Revenue and Customers or by the tax 
authorities in the relevant country for earnings outside the United Kingdom. (My 
emphasis added).
In my view, Royal London has made it clear in the policy terms and conditions that it will 
calculate benefit based on a policyholders earned income in the 12 months prior to their disability. As Mr T stopped working in February 2021, I think Royal London was contractually 
entitled to calculate benefit based on Mr Ts earnings in the 12 months before that date.
Mr T provided Royal London with evidence of his earned income for the 12-month period 
prior to his incapacity. This shows that during that period, Mr T earned £11,530.97 in a 
contracting role.
The policy does include provision for Royal London to average earnings. It says:
If you make a claim, we may average earnings over a different period, if in our reasonable 
opinion, your salary or earned income fluctuates significantly and using a different period 
would give a better indication of your usual earned income.
This term doesnt require Royal London to take an average of a policyholders earnings over 
a period of time. The decision to assess claims in this way is at Royal Londons discretion. 
So Royal London isnt bound to apply this term to its consideration of Mr Ts claim. 
Its clear Mr T feels strongly that it would be fairer for Royal London to calculate benefit using 
an average of his earnings over a period of years. He also considers that his main role has 
generally been as a freelancer and that he was in the process of setting-up the craft 
business.
I can see from the evidence Mr T provided, that at times, he earned substantially more 
annually as an employee than his earnings in the 12 months prior to his illness. I agree that 
averaging his earnings over a period of years would lead to a calculation of higher benefit. 
So Ive carefully considered whether I think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct 
Royal London to use an average of Mr Ts earnings. On balance, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for make such a direction and Ill explore this further.  
Mr T completed a claim form. On the form, Mr T stated that his precise occupation was as a 
craftsman, also supplemented by project work. He also stated on the form that he worked 
part time as a contractor. He said that all work was either at home, or he travelled to a 
workshop. Mr T said that he was recently self-employed setting up his craft business, which 
was supplemented by part-time project work. The form also asked whether there had been a 
significant change in the last three years. Mr T answered: Yes. In 2020, I started up a new 
businessThis was still at an early stage and therefore not yet earning full potential.  As 
such then, even if Mr T was continuing to take on project work while the crafts business was 
at an early stage, it seems he considered this to be his main role. In my view, this isnt 
commensurate with an employed full-time role, even if facets of the part-time job were the 
same.
It's also clear from the claim form that Mr T told Royal London hed been out of work 
between May 2019 and February 2020. I understand he was undertaking renovation work 
during that time. However, it doesnt appear that Mr T was earning income during that period 
either. I dont think this can reasonably be treated as a fluctuation in Mr Ts income. 
I think it was reasonable for Royal London to rely on the evidence Mr T gave it at the time of 
the claim. Based on that information, I think it was fair for it to conclude that Mr T had 
broadly significantly changed his own occupation  given the switch from an employed role 
which ended in May 2019, to a self-employed business, which was supplemented by part-
time project work. And in the 12 months before the claim, Mr Ts self-employed earnings 
were significantly lower than his employed earnings during 2017, 2018 and 2019. So taking 
these factors into account, I dont think taking an average of Mr Ts earnings over a longer 
period would provide a better indication of Mr Ts usual income for the occupation he was 
carrying out in the 12 months before his illness.Overall, I sympathise with Mr Ts position, as I dont doubt that the first the pandemic and 
then his illness, had a real effect on his ability to work as hed planned to. I was also sorry to 
hear about the impact his illness has had on him. But I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
Royal London should calculate benefit using an average of his earnings. I find that Royal 
London has calculated benefit fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy terms.
Royal London maintains that if Mr T feels its missing any of his earnings for the period 
February 2020 until January 2021, it would be happy to take this information into account. 
Its also offered to write to HMRC to ask for this information should he wish it to do so. In my 
view, this is a fair response and it remains open to Mr T to provide further information about 
his earnings to Royal London should he wish to.
It's clear Royal London accepts that it didnt provide Mr T with the best service it could have 
done, in terms of service delays. So its paid Mr T total compensation of £450 to recognise 
these errors. In my view, this was a fair and appropriate response from Royal London. This 
means that Im not directing Royal London to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman