DRN-3663024
The complaint
Mr H has a number of complaints about the service provided to him by Halifax Share 
Dealing Limited (HSDL), as follows: 
In May 2021, HSDL debited fees directly from Mr Hs stocks and shares ISA after he 
had told HSDL in January 2021 to take the fees from his current account. And in May 
2022, HSDL also debited the fees for Mr Hs share dealing account directly from the 
account, despite Mr H having already requested otherwise and provided bank details 
for this purpose. Mr H was unhappy this reduced the value of his ISA. 
In September 2021, Mr H complained he was still waiting to hear from HSDL after he 
had requested a value for the cash holding in his ISA in July 2021 and instructed 
HSDL to transfer the cash holding only to a cash ISA Mr H held with another financial 
services provider. 
On 1 July 2021, after complaining to HSDL about a number of issues, Mr H raised a 
data subject access request (DSAR). He is unhappy about the way HSDL handled 
this request and the time taken. Mr H also requested statements which he didnt 
receive.
When Mr H received the DSAR it was marked DSAR on the envelope and left 
outside his house for several days by the courier who delivered it, causing a potential 
risk to Mr Hs personal data. HSDL offered Mr H £100 to compensate him for the fact 
the DSAR wasnt sent via Royal Mail as it shouldve been. 
To put things right, Mr H wants HSDL to pay him more compensation than it has 
offered. 
What happened
In final response letters sent to Mr H on 3 June 2021 and 14 July 2021, HSDL said (in brief 
summary):
it had no record of the letter from Mr H sent in January 2021.
Its policy was always to attempt to take ISA administration fees from Mr Hs 
nominated bank account in the first instance. Where that wasnt possible, HSDL 
would take the fee from the ISA, before exploring other options.
HSDL was unable to take the fee from Mr Hs bank account as it didnt have an 
active direct debit instruction and the debit card it held on record for him had expired 
in January 2021. So it took the April 2020  March 2021 administration fee of £12.50 
from his ISA on 11 May 2021.
HSDL said this could be avoided in future if Mr H provided an up to date debit card 
and it explained the various ways he could do this.
HSDL enclosed Mr Hs most recent statement, for the period ending 5 April 2021 and 
told him that the next quarterly statement wasnt yet available.
As it hadnt identified any breach of its customer agreement, HSDL said it was unable to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint about these issues.
Mr H didnt think HSDL had adequately addressed his complaints so he brought his 
complaints to us. 
Our investigator spent some time liaising with HSDL in an effort to clarify Mr Hs various 
complaints. She wanted to be sure she had addressed all the most pressing complaints and 
be satisfied that HSDL had done everything we would expect it to where it had made errors 
or not dealt with things as well as it shouldve done. 
Our investigator wrote to Mr H in July 2022 setting out her view on these particular 
complaints. She explained why she didnt think HSDL had acted incorrectly when it took fees 
the way it did. She said all the information Mr H had needed to know about the transfer 
request was set out in HSDLs website. She didnt think HSDL had unduly delayed 
responding to Mr Hs DSAR request. And she felt HSDLs offer of £100 compensation was 
fair and reasonable for having mistakenly used a courier rather than post when sending 
information in response to Mr Hs DSAR response. 
As Mr H didnt agree with our investigator and these complaint issues remain unresolved, his 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Fees & statements
I cant hold HSDL responsible for not replying to Mr Hs letter of 8 January 2021 when 
I havent seen any evidence to show HSDL received it. HSDL wrote to Mr H on 13 April 2021 
to explain how it would be collecting fees.
Having considered the available evidence, I dont think HSDL acted unreasonably when it 
collected fees direct from Mr Hs ISA and share dealing accounts in 2021 and 2022. 
I say this because HSDL provided evidence to show Mr Hs debit card had expired in 
January 2021 and the card details werent updated until July 2021. So, taking the fees from 
the account was the only payment option available at the time (and its terms and conditions 
allowed HSDL to do this). 
By 2022, HSDL had updated its terms to make this the primary way of collecting account 
fees, having informed customers about this in November 2021.
Reminders followed in December 2021 and February 2022, when HSDL confirmed to its 
customers that from April 2022, Well take payment for the new £36 fee from cash within 
your account in April each year with the first payment collected in April 2022. If your account 
doesnt have enough cash to cover the fee, well take the remaining amount by Direct Debit 
or from your Debit Card.
So, I agree with our investigator that HSDL acted reasonably when it didnt collect the fees 
from Mr Hs bank account since, although he might have preferred that, it wasnt any longer the way it operated. Changes to the way HSDL would in future take fees had been widely 
communicated so Mr H was aware of this.
I think it was fair for HSDL to point out that although Mr H didnt receive statements hed 
asked for post-dated 5 April 2021, his account is online registered which means quarterly 
statements were available to him to view online. So I cant fairly say that Mr H was 
disadvantaged in any respect when HSDL didnt send him paper statements as Mr H could 
have seen and printed off his own copies. And Ive noted that HSDL did send Mr H the 
requested hard copy of his statement free of charge with a final response letter on 9th June 
2021 which it wasnt required to do. So I dont uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint or require 
HSDL to take any further action. 
Cash transfer
HSDL couldve responded to Mr Hs 22 July 2021 letter about transferring the cash holding 
only from his stocks and shares ISA to a cash ISA with another financial provider. But I think 
it's also fair to say that Mr Hs expectation that HSDL should provide its written response by 
return wasnt reasonable or likely to be realistically achievable. So whilst I can see his 
communications with HSDL have been a source of ongoing frustration, I think this is partly 
due to Mr H having an unrealistic expectation of the service level he is entitled to expect. 
Also, information on how to request an ISA transfer was readily available to Mr H on HSDLs 
website. So I dont find that Mr H was put at any disadvantage when HSDL didnt reply 
promptly to his letter. And Im mindful that Mr H was writing to HSDL about a number of 
issues and sending a lot of correspondence  sometimes before HSDL had a chance to 
check things out and reply. So I think it was probably difficult for HSDL to keep up with all the 
correspondence Mr H was sending. 
Ultimately, in order for a business to transfer an ISA to another financial provider, the 
receiving provider needs to send a transfer request. HSDL confirmed it didnt receive any 
transfer request here. So it was unable to process this transfer in any event. 
For all these reasons, this isnt a part of the complaint Im upholding.
DSAR
When Mr H submitted a DSAR on 1 July 2021, HSDL responded on 5 July 2021, asking for 
further information. When Mr H replied on 14 July 2021, HSDL had 90 days to process the 
request, which allowed until 11 October 2021. HSDL said the number of products held by 
Mr H meant this wasnt a straightforward request. So I dont feel I can fairly say there were 
unnecessary delays. And the DSAR was issued within the required timescale on 
11 October 2021.
HSDL acknowledged it shouldve sent the DSAR via Royal Mail rather than courier. I dont 
think I need to say more about this as HSDL has said this was an error on its part. 
When assessing fair and reasonable redress, I must consider what impact HSDLs error had 
on Mr H. I can completely understand his concern at discovering that the paperwork, labelled 
as a DSAR for anyone to see and containing private, personal information, was left 
insecurely outside his premises. I dont think HSDL can be entirely blamed for the couriers 
actions  its my understanding that HSDL thought a signature would be needed so I dont 
think it couldve known it was putting Mr Hs data at risk. Fortunately, I've seen nothing that 
suggests Mr Hs data was seen by anyone else, so this limited the impact of this error. I think 
HSDLs offer of £100 to compensate for the upset caused to Mr H as a result of what 
happened is broadly in line with what I would recommend in this situation. I completely accept that Mr H may still see things differently to the way I do. But I hope that 
setting things out as I've done will help explain how I've reached my conclusions and why 
I think this redress is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr H £100, as it has offered 
to do, to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman