DRN-2798556
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to process a payment 
from his account in line with his instructions.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr S attempted to make a payment through Nationwides online banking service to 
Company A in relation to an investment.
This payment failed. Nationwide said this was due to incorrect address details being 
given by Mr S for Company A. It said it had sent messages through its online banking 
service to confirm this at the time. 
Mr S called Nationwide two days later as the payment hadnt been made. In this call 
Nationwide told Mr S to attend a branch to make the payment. He did this and the 
payment was made later that day. 
Mr S has told us that Company A received the funds the day after he attended the 
branch. And because the payment was late, he was charged a fee and missed out on 
the opportunity to invest as he had wished to. Mr S said Company A would 
reconsider the charge and opportunity to invest on receipt of a letter from Nationwide 
explaining it had been at fault for the late payment.
Nationwide said there had been no error in regards to the initial transfer as Mr S had 
provided incorrect details. But it said it had made a mistake by directing Mr S to 
attend a branch as this was unnecessary. It also said it hadnt provided the service it 
should have in regards to communication. It offered £210 for these mistakes.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Nationwide 
was correct to not process the initial payment in light of the incorrect details and this 
wasnt an error on its part. She agreed the trip to the branch was an unnecessary 
inconvenience, but said it hadnt impacted events beyond this inconvenience as Mr 
Ss payment was still processed the same day. 
The investigator also said Nationwide shouldve replied faster than it did in relation to 
his request about a letter admitting fault, but didnt agree it was responsible so said it 
was fair it didnt provide one. So she said its offer was fair in the circumstances.
Mr S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. And these are for reasons in line with 
those given by our investigator previously. 
Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly by not processing the payment in light of the lack 
of a full beneficiary address. Im also satisfied it provided sufficient information to 
alert him of this.
Nationwide has agreed it made a mistake by directing Mr S to the branch so Ive 
thought about the impact of this mistake.
Mr S had to make an unnecessary trip which I can see would be frustrating. However 
beyond this, given the payment was still made the same day I cant see this caused 
any wider impact. I say this as it seems to me he wouldve been in the same position 
had he made the payment online the same day.
And in light of the initial mistake by Mr S in not providing the full beneficiary address 
 Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold Nationwide responsible for any 
subsequent decisions made by Company A.
Nationwide also agreed it made mistakes in regards to communication. I agree again 
that this wouldve been frustrating for him. But I cant see that it wouldve impacted 
his situation as ultimately the information he wanted  Nationwide admitting fault  
would never arrive as it simply didnt agree.
In all of the circumstances Im satisfied its offer of £210 is fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience it caused him. So Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman