DRN-3963266
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the poor service she received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited when her boiler stopped working and she sought assistance under her Homecare 
policy. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mrs Ss boiler stopped working and she contacted British Gas. In June 2022 
Mrs S complained about the number of engineer visits that took place without fixing her 
boiler - and the number of calls she had to make. She said she was without heating and hot 
water for a number of weeks. 
In October 2022 British Gas upheld Mrs Ss complaint. It agreed it had provided a poor 
service and should have resolved issues sooner. Mrs Ss boiler was repaired on 24 June 
2022. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused, British Gas paid Mrs S £250 compensation. 
Mrs S didnt think this was enough and so she asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator agreed that British Gas had failed Mrs S in the service it provided. But he 
thought the compensation it had paid was enough to put things right. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She provided an engineer report for repairs carried out in September 
2022. She says this shows British Gas hadnt properly repaired the boiler previously. Mrs S 
says the compensation paid doesnt reflect the disruption and distress caused during her 
dealings with British Gas 
So she wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and what a business did to put 
things right. 
Having to deal with any claim will inevitably cause some disruption to daily life. And I dont 
think it unreasonable to expect a wait time for assessment, for parts to be ordered and repair 
arrangements to be made. When an appliance fails, It isnt always possible to make a 
correct diagnosis at the outset.
However, its clear from the timeline provided that British Gas service was poor and the 
disruption to Mrs S and her family was over and above what would be considered 
reasonable. 
Ive considered the engineer report Mrs S provided but it doesnt show me that British Gas 
failed to carry out proper repairs. British Gas accepts that the number of visits that took place 
to Mrs Ss home between May and June 2022 should have been less. 
British Gas sent Mrs S letters asking her to pay invoices which she didnt need to pay. It 
confirmed it updated its records to ensure it charged Miss S one excess fee. 
The awards which we give are modest - and examples can be found on our website. Taking 
everything into account, I think the compensation British Gas paid of £250 is within the range 
of reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused. I realise Mrs S will be very 
disappointed, but this means Im not asking British Gas to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman