DRN-3091122
The complaint
Miss R says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to her irresponsible.
 
What happened
Miss R took out a 12-month instalment loan for £2,500 on 24 March 2021 from Likely Loans. 
The monthly repayment was £266.06 and the total repayable was £3192.36. I understand 
there is an outstanding balance.
Miss R says she couldnt afford the debt. She says the lender used the wrong value for her 
income in its assessment, she has had to borrow from family to make her repayments and it 
has affected her mental health. She says Likely Loans has not responded to her multiple 
times and has not addressed her circumstances accordingly.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said the 
lenders checks were proportionate and it made a fair lending decision based on what it saw. 
She said the lender would consider clearing some or all of Miss Rs outstanding balance but 
needed more complete evidence of her circumstances - which was fair.
Miss R disagreed, and was very unhappy with this assessment, so the complaint was 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Likely Loans lent to Miss R required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Likely Loans had to think about
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse
consequences for Miss R. In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the
repayments on Miss R.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Miss R. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Miss Rs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
- did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Miss R before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of her gross annual income which it says she stated was £21,499. It 
verified this using a third-party income verification tool to understand her minimum net 
income (£1521.61). It used national statistics to understand her likely living costs (£797.90) 
and added a £50 buffer to cover unplanned costs. 
It carried out a credit check and from this it knew her total indebtedness was £1,724; she 
had existing monthly credit commitments of £183; and all active accounts were up-to-date. It 
asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks 
combined Likely Loans concluded Miss R would have monthly disposable income of around 
£270, after adding the repayment for this loan, and so would be able to sustainably repay it. I 
note it did not take into account any reduction in her existing credit commitments from any 
debt consolidation.
I think these checks were proportionate given the nature of Miss Rs loan application. And I
think Likely Loans made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill
explain why.
The loan was over 12 months and at the start of a borrowing relationship. The results of the
credit check showed Miss R had a low level of debt (£1724) and was managing her credit 
well. There was no adverse data. And the affordability assessment left Miss R with sufficient 
disposable income. I note Miss R says the lender used the wrong income figure but Likely 
Loans explained it was based on the data she entered online: it has provided the application 
report that shows the data she input and the IP address it came from. It says as her stated 
income was successfully verified by the third-party check there was no need to ask for 
supporting documentation such as a payslip. 
As I have found the lenders checks to be reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances 
of this application, I dont think it should have done anything further to check the income 
data. Overall, I cant see there was anything in the information gathered that ought to have led the 
lender to realise there was a risk the loan might be unaffordable for Miss R and therefore 
make a different decision. I note at times Miss R was able to overpay. It follows I dont think 
Likely Loans was wrong to give the loan to Miss R.
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss R is unhappy that the lender will not agree to write-off all or part her remaining balance 
without further medical evidence. She has provided some documentation  a doctors 
certificate showing she was unable to work due to depression between 28 August 2021 and 
6 September 2021. She says she has explained her personal circumstances to the lender, 
as she has to this service, and that should be sufficient. She says the lender has showed no 
compassion.
I am satisfied Likely Loans understands its obligations under the relevant regulations by 
considering waiving Miss Rs outstanding balance and I note it agreed to a breathing space 
request whilst this investigation was ongoing. However, I think that it is fair for the lender to 
request more complete evidence before reaching a decision on how to treat the current 
balance. I think it tried to be helpful and sympathetic in its text exchanges with Miss R during 
June and July 2021. It told Miss R about the Debt and Mental Health Form and explained 
that the completion of this by a qualified professional should be free of charge - and that it 
may help with debts other than this loan. I think the tone of the messages that I have seen 
from Likely Loans was sympathetic and appropriate. 
I do understand that this is a very sensitive and difficult issue for Miss R to deal with  she 
could give permission for a third party to act on her behalf in her dealings with Likely Loans 
and ask for more time to provide the evidence required. I would expect the lender to accept 
this request for more time under the provisions of CONC 7.10.2G in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook.
Overall, I dont find that Likely Loans has acted unfairly or unreasonably. If Miss R continues 
to be unwilling to provide the medical evidence it requires, I would remind it of its obligation 
to treat her positively and sympathetically as the parties try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman