DRN-4119776
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(C&G) has rejected her claim for veterinary treatment for her dog after he ate a face mask.
What happened
Miss Ws young dog, who Ill refer to as F, ate a face mask whilst he was on a walk with 
Miss W. Miss W says this occurred in the late afternoon of 2 February 2022. Miss W thought 
that the mask would pass through F naturally. However before it did, F became unwell and 
at 07.30 on 4 February Miss W took F to the vet. He underwent surgery the same day and 
the face mask, a baby dummy and some plastic were removed from his stomach. Sadly Fs 
condition deteriorated due to blood coagulation problems and he crashed during a blood 
transfusion. As the prognosis for his recovery became poor the decision was made that he 
be euthanised.
 
Miss W submitted a claim to C&G for the cost of his surgery to remove the face mask and 
his subsequent treatment. C&G rejected this claim on the ground that Miss W had waited a 
considerable amount of time between F eating the face mask and seeking veterinary 
treatment, which in its view confirmed that she did not take the reasonable steps which could 
have prevented F from becoming so unwell. Had he received immediate medical attention, 
he may not have been so unwell.
As Miss W was dissatisfied with C&Gs rejection of her claim, she brought her complaint to 
this service. Miss W says that apart from the emotional upset of losing her pet, she faced 
financial difficulties in having to pay vets fees of over £4,000 at a time when she faced a 
number of other difficulties. She wants C&G to settle her claim and to compensate her for 
the additional stress and financial strain that she has faced due to C&G rejecting her claim.
Our investigators initial view was that Miss Ws complaint should not be upheld as C&G 
hadnt acted unreasonably in rejecting her claim on the ground that shed delayed in seeking 
treatment for F.
In response to that view, Miss W provided further information from Fs vet which stated as 
follows:
Immediately postopera tively [F] recovered well from anaesthesia, however 
approximately an hour later, he collapsed and required emergency treatment.  [F] 
became unable to clot properly and his coagula tion parameters became high. Later 
testing revealed [F] was posi tive for Lungworm; this is one cause that may have 
resulted in this cascade of coagula tion issues post-op, although other causes were not 
ruled out at this time. Unfortunately, [F] deteriorated and required euthanasia.
In my opinion the owner sought immediate and appropriate veterinary care and 
followed the treatment op tions advised. Given there was mul tiple items located in his 
stomach and he had an undetected Lungworm infec tion that poten tially led to his 
inability to coagulate post-surgery, I believe that even if we had known about the face 
mask the day he had eaten it, his outcome would have likely been the same.
In response, C&G referred to Fs veterinary record and noted that Fs preventative treatment 
for lungworm had been discontinued. It had been informed that treatment for the prevention 
of lungworm should be taken monthly whilst a dog was a puppy, but Fs medication hadnt 
been taken in August 2021 when F was six months old, or thereafter. It referred to the 
following policy terms:
Section 1  Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
 Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventive and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury, including but not limited to 
the following:
- Control and elimination of fleas, ticks, skin mites, worms and lung worm
- Any claim costs for not having any of the Treatments listed above carried out if 
suggested by Your Vet.
 Any Illnesses that Your pet should be vaccinated against or where Your pet has not 
been dewormed or treated for fleas
Section 10  General Conditions
As with all insurance policies, there are exclusions and conditions that apply to Your 
coverage. We have listed below the conditions that apply to all sections of Your Policy 
coverage.
The following conditions apply to the whole of this Policy
 As a minimum, Your dog should be vaccinated against distemper, hepatitis, 
leptospirosis, kennel cough, lung worm, heart worm and parvovirus.
C&G therefore maintains that if the vets view was that F suffering from lungworm was a 
potential cause of his rapid deterioration, then the claim should still have been declined due 
to the contravention of the above-mentioned Terms.
Our investigator issued a revised view upholding Miss Ws complaint. She didnt consider 
that C&G had acted reasonably in declining Miss Ws claim for the removal of the foreign 
bodies from Fs stomach. She was also of the view that a claim for lungworm treatment 
didnt fall within Miss Ws claim to C&G so was irrelevant to the investigation of this 
complaint.
As C&G didnt agree with our investigators view, its asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman. It was referred to me for a final decision from this service.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that I didnt consider it unreasonable for C&G to decline 
to cover those veterinary costs that were directly attributable to the complications that 
followed Fs surgery on the basis that these costs might not have been incurred had the 
policy conditions relating to treatment against lungworm been adhered to.
I said I was proposing to require C&G to pay to Miss W that part of her claim that related to 
the removal of the foreign objects from Fs stomach and post operative treatment but 
excluding the cost of treating the lungworm related complications that arose thereafter. I said 
that this amount should be determined by Fs vet. 
In response to my provisional decision, Miss W confirmed that her vet had provided an 
invoice for £2,875.71 which covered only the costs associated with Fs gastrotomy treatment 
and excluded the costs associated with lungworm. Miss W says that after deduction of the 
£90 policy excess, her claim was for £2,755.71.
In its response, C&G confirmed that it agreed with my recommendations and reviewed the 
costs relating to Miss Ws claim. It made a number of deductions:Total amount claimed: £4,184.71
Less: Lungworm treatment £1,367.26 £2,817.45
Less: Surgical waste disposal £     12.90
Consumables 
(surgical pack/catheter) £   152.13
Anaesthetic over £250 £   311.50
Blood sampling fee over £12 £     25.53
Lab interpretation over £25 £     49.53
£   551.59 £2,265.86
Less: Excess £     90.00  £2175.86
C&G therefore considers that it should pay Ms W £2,175.86. In making the above 
deductions which total £551.59, it relies upon the following terms in Miss Ws policy: 
Section 1 - Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
 Any miscellaneous costs that do not directly relate to the Treatment of an Illness or 
Accidental Injury, including but not limited to single use items, non-medical items, 
cleaning supplies and other such costs that a Vet may charge but are not directly related 
to the actual Treatment of Your Pet;
Section 11 - General Conditions
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable; and Essential for Your pets health 
and well-being. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary 
Treatment, medication and dispensing fees. Blood sampling charges will be capped at 
the UK market average.
C&G says that the consumable items do not relate directly to Fs treatment, and that the fees 
which are deemed reasonable, and above which it doesnt agree to pay, are based on its 
research.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having taken into consideration the further submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, Im maintaining the view that I expressed in my provisional decision 
but am clarifying what I require C&G to pay.
Im satisfied that the revised invoice for £2,845.71 from Miss Ws vet is a proper basis from 
which to determine this. From this C&G may deduct the £90 policy excess. This gives a 
figure of £2,755.71.
Ive considered the policy terms upon which C&G relies to make further deductions. Im not 
persuaded that its reasonable for it to make such deductions as it hasnt provided any basis 
for doing so other than to say that these costs are either not directly related to Fs treatment, 
or that reasonable cost limits apply which are based on its research.
  
In my view, its reasonable to regard surgical packs and catheters as directly related to the 
actual treatment of a pet, and I consider C&G should cover these costs.The only deduction that I consider might not to be directly related to Fs treatment is the 
£12.90 for the disposal or surgical waste. Im therefore allowing this deduction.
What vet fees are reasonable is subjective and must apply to the circumstances and 
location in which those fees are incurred. It would not be obvious to anyone, when taking out 
a policy, what amounts C&G considers to be reasonable. Knowing this might influence their 
decision whether or not to proceed to do so. And when choosing where to have their pet 
treated, an insured should not be expected to shop around to find a vet whose costs align 
with what C&G considers to be reasonable. I consider that it is for C&G to provide a case as 
to why the fees charged by a vet are unreasonable. Im therefore not allowing these 
deductions.
My final decision is that C&G should pay Miss W £2,742.81, being the vets revised bill of 
£2,845.71 less the £90 excess and the £12.90 cost of surgical waste disposal.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im partly upholding Miss Ws complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Miss W the 
following:
1. The sum of £2,742.81.
2. Interest on the said sum at the simple rate of 8% from the date she submitted her 
claim to the date that payment is made to her.
If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give Miss W a tax 
deduction certificate if she  asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman