DRN-2554873
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mr P says AXA mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In November 2004 Mr P filled in an application form for use by a staff member at the store 
and he applied for a credit card or store card issued by his employer signing in the box on 
the application form to take out the card with PPI.
The policy offered protection for the card monthly repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. Looking at the likely policy terms, it paid 10% of the balance 
outstanding on the card for up to 12 months. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ps complaint upheld it. Mainly, she didnt think Mr P 
wouldve taken out the insurance if AXA had made him aware that the policy wouldnt have 
been of any real value to him if hed lost his job. Thats because its likely his employer 
wouldve deducted the outstanding balance Mr P owed on his card from his final pay. So he 
wouldnt have been able to make use of the policys unemployment benefit. 
AXA disagreed with our adjudicators view. In summary, AXA mainly said that other than the 
word Colleague on the application form Mr P filled in there was no other evidence to 
suggest that Mr P was a staff member at the time. So AXA said it believed the account was 
structured in the same way as a regular store card (which meant that Mr P could have 
benefitted from having unemployment cover). 
So Mr Ps complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Mr P enough clear information about the PPI for him to be able to 
decide if it was right for him. 
I dont know what, if anything, was said when the policy was sold to Mr P. 
I can see that the application form is clearly marked as being for use by someone employed 
at the store. 
When our adjudicator first asked AXA about this, it said that although it had no evidence to 
suggest for certain that Mr P had a staff card account , it  cant imagine the customer 
filling out a colleague application unless they were a staff member.
AXA has now said something different  it feels the store card application form alone isnt 
enough to support the conclusion our adjudicator reached. 
But I disagree. I think AXAs first response was reasonable. I think its difficult to think of 
circumstances in which a member of the public wouldve filled in an application intended for 
use by staff working at the store. And it looks to me like relevant job information has been 
completed including the store number and Mr Ps employee number. Im aware that 
someone not working at the store who wanted to apply for one of its cards wouldve been 
invited to fill in a different application form.
I understand that the usual agreement a staff member wouldve had to sign in order to take 
out the card included signing up to agree that any balance on the card would be paid out of 
the final pay owing when the employment ended. 
So having a policy that paid something towards the card balance in the event of 
unemployment would have been of limited use to Mr P because there would likely have been 
no card balance outstanding when his job ended. 
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this information to his attention, as it shouldve done. 
I think this limitation on cover for unemployment is likely to have mattered to Mr P. I say this 
because I think Mr P might reasonably have expected hed be able to take advantage of all 
the main policy benefits  including unemployment cover. And if hed understood hed be 
paying for cover he couldnt use, I dont think he wouldve wanted to take out the policy. 
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. 
If AXA had given Mr P clearer information about the policy limitation in his particular 
circumstances, I dont think its likely that Mr P wouldve thought the policy was right for him. 
So its unlikely he wouldve wanted to pay to have it. 
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mr P has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr P in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. AXA should find out how much Mr P would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, 
as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges 
that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr P owed when he 
closed the account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr P would have owed 
when he closed the account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr P would have owed each month without PPI  Mr P 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr P 
wouldve owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mr P what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr P that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.
AXA France IARD should take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman