DRN-2247880
Complaint
Miss O has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) provided 
her with unaffordable loans. 
  
Background
118 118 Money provided Miss O with a total of three loans. Loan 1 was for £2,000 and taken 
in November 2016. T was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £156.58. Loan 1 
was repaid in June 2018 using some of the proceeds from loan 2. 
Loan 2 was for £2,649.23 and was repayable in 24 monthly instalments of £205.20. Miss O 
settled this loan early in October 2018. Miss O was finally provided with loan 3 in March 
2019, which was for £1000 and due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £115.04.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that 118 118 Money unfairly 
provided these loans as proportionate checks would have shown they were unaffordable. 
118 118 Money disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Os complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Os complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss O would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss O wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that   
Miss O would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
118 118 Money provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Os ability to make the 
repayments under these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss O. In practice this
meant that 118 118 Money had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss O undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss O. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were 118 118 Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
118 118 Money says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss O 
prior to providing her with these loans. It also carried out credit checks. Miss O declared that 
she was earning around £1,277.00 a month and had expenditure of £644 a month for loans 
1 and 2. For loan 3, Miss O declared that she was earning around £1,636.00 a month and 
had expenditure of £644 a month. 
Ive carefully considered what 118 118 Money has said. But 118 118 Moneys credit checks 
clearly show that Miss Os credit commitments alone made the expenditure arrived at 
implausible. Equally, 118 118 Money clearly wasnt confident in the income and expenditure information Miss O provided such that it adjusted the figures. Bearing all of this in mind, I 
think that 118 118 Money needed to take steps to verify Miss Os actual monthly 
expenditure. 
As I cant see that this 118 118 Money did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Miss O with her loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to 118 118 Money that Miss O
would have been unable to repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told 118 118 Money that Miss O 
would have been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
118 118 Money was required to establish whether Miss O could make her loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Miss Os 
income was pretty much being used to meet commitments to existing creditors. And she was 
using payday loans as well as her overdraft in an attempt to supplement her income and 
make ends meet. 
I think the proportionate checks would have shown 118 118 Money that she was likely to use 
this loan in the same way which meant she was unlikely to be able to repay it without 
borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss O would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted 118 118 Money to the fact that Miss O was in no sort of position to make 
the payments on these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss O in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss O in some other 
way. So I dont think 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss O in some 
other way.
Did Miss O lose out as a result of 118 118 Money unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Miss O paid a high amount of interest and charges on loans that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 118 118 Money did 
wrong.
So I think that 118 118 Money needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Miss OHaving thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Os complaint for 118 118 Money to put things right by:
refund all interest, fees and charges Miss O paid on her loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date 
they were paid by Miss O to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Os credit file as a result of 
these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Os complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman