DRN-1510125
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that First Data Europe Limited trading as First Data mis-sold a merchant 
services agreement to him. Mr B also complains that First Data Europe Limited trading as 
First Data failed to compensate him for losses incurred as a result.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by Ms B.
Background
Mr B took out a merchant services agreement with First Data. Mr B operated as a sole trader 
business at the time the agreement was entered into.  
Mr B says First Data mis-sold the merchant services agreement because he wasnt able to 
use the terminal it provided to take pre-authorisation payments. And, he says this meant he 
wasnt able to recover damages hes entitled to under the terms of agreements with his 
customers. So, he complained to First Data.
First Data investigated the complaint. It agreed that Mr B shouldve been offered a device 
that was pre-authorisation compatible. It upheld the complaint. But it said it couldnt currently 
offer a terminal that permitted pre-authorisations. So, it offered Mr B various options to 
resolve the complaint. These included the option to cancel his agreement without having to 
pay termination fees. He was also offered an option to switch to another provider, with no 
swap fees, provided he used a First Data lease agreement.
Mr B says none of the options suited him. He decided to keep the First Data terminal for part 
of his business. He also decided to take out a new agreement with a different provider for 
another part of his business. The new agreement allowed pre-authorisations. But, Mr B says 
First Data hasnt offered to compensate him for the losses hes suffered. So, he complained 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought First Data hadnt treated Mr B fairly. 
She said Mr B had supplied copies of the agreements he made with his customers. These 
showed that in certain circumstances Mr B was entitled to take a refundable deposit of £60. 
If damages occurred the deposit wouldnt be refunded.
Mr B also provided evidence of four occasions where he said this amount wouldve been 
payable. So, our investigator thought First Data should pay him £240 plus 8% interest from 
the dates the damages had arisen for the loss hed suffered. She also said First Data should 
pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr B agreed that he should be paid the compensation our investigator had suggested. But 
he also said he was entitled to further compensation for other occasions when damages had 
happened. Our investigator didnt agree. She said shed have expected Mr B to keep a 
record of any such occasions. And because he hadnt done that, she didnt change her view.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the terminal Mr B had been given didnt meet his requirements. Mr B 
had made the nature of his business clear to First Data and what he needed it to provide. 
But it hadnt provided a terminal which allowed him to take pre-authorisation payments. First 
Data has acknowledged and accepted this.
The matter I have to decide is whether the compensation being offered by First Data is fair 
and reasonable given the circumstances of the complaint.
I agree with our investigator that First Data hasnt offered any compensation to Mr B for the 
losses he suffered when he couldnt collect or retain damage deposits. It did give Mr B 
various options to end the agreement with it. Mr B decided to keep the terminal hed been 
given for part of his business. So, Mr B didnt accept any of the options First Data had 
provided. He was entitled to do that.
None of the options Mr B had been given dealt with the fact he hadnt been able to take pre-
authorisation payments. Ive looked at the contractual arrangements which Mr B made with 
his customers. These state
A damage deposit of GBP60 is required on arrival. This will be collected by credit 
card. You should be reimbursed on check-out. Your deposit will be refunded in full 
via credit card, subject to an inspection of the property.
Because the terminals didnt permit pre-authorisation payments to be taken, Mr B wasnt 
able to collect and retain the £60 damage deposit - even if an inspection of the property 
indicated damage had occurred. So, I think its fair and reasonable to expect First Data to 
compensate him for loss he suffered as a result.
Our investigator asked Mr B to provide evidence of any losses hed suffered. He provided 
evidence of loss arising on four dates as follows:
22 August 2019
9 September 2019
27 September 2019
1 October 2019
But, Mr B says there were other occasions when he suffered loss and wouldve been entitled 
to collect and retain £60 pre-authorisation payments. Hes referred to the number of 
customers hes had during the period in question. Hes also told us its not possible, 
depending on the nature of the breach of the agreement by his customers, to provide 
photographic evidence of all the losses hes suffered. 
Ive thought about what Mr B has said. I can understand why he may not have retained 
photographic evidence of all the damages caused. But I agree with our investigator when 
she says shed expect him to be able to produce a record of the dates when he says the 
damages occurred. 
Ive considered the fact that Mr B hasnt provided us with a log setting out the dates when he 
says these damages were caused. Hes also said he didnt make any reports to the third-
party agent involved in the reservation process. And, he hasnt provided any evidence that 
he contacted the customers to tell them about the damages that had been caused. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to require First Data to pay compensation where Mr B 
hasnt provided evidence to support what hes said about incurring losses on dates other 
than the four dates set out above.
Putting things right
In these circumstances, First Data should pay Mr B £240 by way of compensation, being 
£60 for losses incurred on each of the four dates set out above. This is the amount he 
wouldve been able to retain if the terminal had been pre-authorisation compatible. I agree 
with our investigator that First Data should pay simple interest at 8% on each amount from 
each of the respective dates.
I also agree with our investigator that £100 would be fair and reasonable compensation for 
the trouble and upset Mr B has been caused as a result of what happened.
I dont require First Data to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about First Data Europe Limited trading 
as First Data.
I now require it to:
Pay Mr B £240 being £60 for each of the four dates (set out below) when damage 
deposits couldnt be collected and retained 
22 August 2019
9 September 2019
27 September 2019
1 October 2019
Pay interest on each of these amounts at the rate of 8% simple a year**, payable 
from each of the respective dates set out above.
Pay Mr B £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused 
as a result of whats happened.
** HM Revenue & Customs requires First Data Europe Ltd to take off tax from this simple interest. First Data Europe Ltd must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr B asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman