DRN-2158941
The complaint
Mr W says SD Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home (Loans at Home), irresponsibly 
lent to him. Mr W says no affordability assessments were carried out. He was in constant 
debt and repeatedly borrowing. He has said he would take further lending to repay lending 
he had elsewhere. Mr W has told us he would repay his loans early  before the agreed term 
 and then take further borrowing. He was reliant on this type of borrowing. 
What happened
This complaint is about 11 home collected credit loans provided to Mr W between July 2017 
and November 2019. The loans ranged from £402 to £1,000 and each loan was repayable 
over 33 to 78 weeks for amounts of between £10.40 to £30 per week. At the time of the 
complaint loan 11 was still being repaid. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint and thought that loans five and onwards 
should be upheld. The adjudicator said this because they thought the overall pattern of      
Mr Ws borrowing indicated he was having problems managing his money. Proportionate 
checks would have shown he was using other short-term credit providers and the borrowing 
was becoming unsustainable. 
Loans at Home didnt fully agree with the adjudicator. It did offer to uphold the complaint for 
loans six onwards but asked the adjudicator to reconsider whether loan five should be 
upheld. We put the offer to Mr W but he didnt want to accept it.
Our adjudicator maintained that the lending at loan five showed Mr W was reliant on this 
type of borrowing and it was unsustainable for him.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision in my 
role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Loans at Home needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Loans at Home should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Loans at Home was required to 
establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr W didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be upheld 
and Loans at Home has already made an offer for loans six to 11. Because of this, I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr W had with 
Loans at Home. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other loan 
he took  loan five.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. Having done so, I am upholding the complaint 
about loan five. Ill explain why. 
In its response to the adjudicators assessment Loans at Home said the lending was 
affordable for Mr W and it had also had a separate conversation with Mr W who had said the 
same. But like the adjudicator I think that when Mr W returned for additional borrowing at 
loan five, it would have been proportionate for Loans at Home to have carried out further 
checks on Mr Ws financial situation in order to build a clearer picture of his financial 
circumstances.
I appreciate that there were sometimes gaps in the lending between loans one and three, 
but I dont think those breaks in borrowing were a sufficient amount of time for Loans at 
Home to have concluded that Mr W had overcome whatever his financial circumstances 
were that had caused him to take this type of lending in the first instance. And I note that 
when Mr W took loan four, loan three was still running which may have suggested that he 
was starting to struggle with managing his finances. Mr W was also regularly repaying his loans between the agreed term end date. But he would 
then return several weeks later for further borrowing. I would question why someone would 
repay a loan well before it was due to be repaid and then only return for additional lending. 
Again, it could be an indication that Mr W was struggling to effectively manage his finances. 
And I note that this is one of Mr Ws complaint points so would think its most likely that this 
was in fact the case. 
When Mr W applied for borrowing at loan five it was double the amount taken previously. 
And it was for a much longer term  78 weeks compared to 33 weeks for the earlier loans. 
Mr W had been borrowing from Loans at Home for nearly a year at this point, albeit with 
short terms between the lending.
So, as Ive said above, I think Loans at Home should have carried out additional checks to 
confirm what Mr W had told it about his financial situation. It could have done this by asking 
for evidence such as copies of his wages slip, outgoings and bank statements, as examples. 
Mr W has shown us his bank statements from the time of the lending. And I see that when 
he took loan five, he was already repaying significant amounts to several short-term credit 
providers. This further indicates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W. I think if Loans 
at Home had carried out proportionate checks it would have seen this other lending and 
realised it shouldnt have carried on lending to Mr W. So, I dont think loan five, and onwards, 
should have been given to Mr W. 
So, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about loan five and onwards and Loans at Home should 
put things right as laid out below.  
Putting things right
For completeness, as well as loan five, I have included loans six to 11 for which Loans at 
Home has already made and offer.
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on five to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Mr Ws credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans six to 11 should be removed from 
Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans at Home to take off tax from this interest. Loans 
at Home must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about loan five, and all subsequent lending. SD Taylor 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 Catherine Langley
Ombudsman