DRN-3909905
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) declined his 
claim for a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 of his purchase of a 
faulty dive computer, on the ground that the limitation period for bringing such a claim had 
expired.
What happened
In 2010 Mr B bought a dive computer for about £280 and paid for it with his Tesco Bank 
credit card. A dive computer is used by scuba divers to provide information critical to the 
divers safety, such as the depth of the dive, the dive time, safety stops, stop depths and 
time for required decompression, and estimated remaining air time. An inaccurate display of 
this information can result in serious injury or death to the diver.
In 2013 Mr Bs dive computer developed a fault. He complained and it was replaced for free. 
He had no further problems with it (he did not use it very often). But in September 2022 he 
discovered on the internet that there had been a class action lawsuit in California against 
another retailer which had sold dive computers there  including the model Mr B had bought 
 and also against the manufacturer. The dive computers had all suffered from a serious, 
irreparable fault  including those which were given as replacements for products which 
customers had complained about and returned. This lawsuit was settled in August 2018 for 
$55 million, without going to trial.
Mr B asked Tesco Bank for a refund. Under section 75, Tesco Bank is liable for any breach 
of contract by the retailer in connection with Mr Bs dive computer, which includes a breach 
of the implied term that it was fit for purpose. This extends to the replacement computer as 
well as the original one. But Tesco Bank did not agree to refund his purchase. It said that it 
was too late for him to bring a claim for a breach of contract, since the Limitation Act 1980 
prescribes a limitation period of six years. The bank counted the limitation period from 2010, 
the date of his original purchase, and said it had expired in 2016.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr B brought this complaint to our service. He argued 
that the limitation period began in 2022, when he had found out that his dive computer was 
faulty. He also complained that Tesco Banks explanation had been contradictory and 
confusing, and that the bank had asked him to get an independent report verifying that the 
dive computer was faulty, only to later retract that request and rely on the limitation period 
instead. He said the bank had wasted his time.
Our investigator thought that the limitation period began in 2013, as this was when the 
retailer had provided Mr B with a faulty replacement, which was a new breach of contract. 
But as that limitation period had expired in 2019, Tesco Bank had still been entitled to find 
that Mr Bs claim was out of time. He agreed that the banks response to Mr Bs claim had 
been unclear, and that it shouldnt have asked him for an independent report. But he thought 
that these errors were not serious enough to warrant financial compensation.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to consider this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the transaction financed by Tesco Bank took place in 2010, I am satisfied that the 
claim about the replacement computer which was exchanged for the original in 2013 relates 
to that transaction for the purposes of section 75. So the bank is, in principle, liable for the 
alleged breach of contract, subject to any defence it may have under the Limitation Act.
The contract law textbook Chitty on Contracts says: 
the buyers right of action for breach of an express or implied warranty relating to 
goods accrues when the goods are delivered, and not when the defect is discovered 
or damage ensues.1
The relevant goods were delivered in 2013, so Mr B had until 2019 to bring a claim against 
the retailer for breach of contract, even if he didnt know that. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act says that he had a like claim against Tesco Bank, and so the same limitation 
period applied to his claim against the bank.
The bank did not explain this very clearly in its initial response to Mr B, but I do not think that 
error was very significant. In one sentence, the bank said there is no time limit for a bringing 
a claim under section 75, and then in the same sentence it went on to say that there was a 
time limit of six years. While I agree that sentence was poorly phrased and a bit confusing, 
I think the bank still managed to convey the gist of its decision later on in the same 
paragraph, where it said:
As you purchased the goods in 2010 it is out of time to pursue a claim under 
Section 75.
The bank explained its stance more clearly in its final response to Mr B.
Although the bank said in both responses that the limitation period began in 2010, rather 
than (as I have found) 2013, that error did not affect the outcome of Mr Bs claim, which was 
out of time either way. For these reasons, I think that the lack of clarity in the banks first 
response, and the miscalculation of the limitation period, are not such serious errors that 
I should award financial compensation for them.
The bank made a further error in asking Mr B for an independent report, only to change its 
mind the next day and tell him that no report was necessary because his claim was too late. 
Im sure that was a bit frustrating, but as Mr B did not obtain a report in that time (although 
he did send a link to a website), I do not think that he was put to so much trouble that 
compensation is necessary for that either.
I have gone on to consider section 32 of the Limitation Act, which says that the start of the 
limitation period can be delayed if there has been fraud or deliberate concealment of 
relevant facts by the defendant, or by his agent. This was alleged by the plaintiffs in the class 
action suit, but that allegation was denied by the defendants in that case, and it was never 
adjudicated on by a court, as the case was settled. 
There may well have been deliberate concealment of facts relevant to Mr Bs right of action 
by the manufacturer or by the retailer in the United States. However, that does not 
1 34th edition, paragraph 31-052, citing Walker v Milner (1866) 4 F. & F. 745.necessarily mean that the retailer in the United Kingdom (which was a different company) 
knew about and deliberately concealed any such facts. Section 32 is concerned only with the 
concealment of facts, or fraud, by the defendant in an action brought by Mr B. Mr B could 
have brought an action against the British retailer (if it had not gone into liquidation). Tesco 
Banks liability under section 75 extends only to a breach of contract by that same retailer, 
because that is who he made the credit card payment to. But even if Mr B could have also 
brought a claim against one of the American companies, Tesco Bank would not be liable for 
that.
I am therefore satisfied that the limitation period for an action against Tesco Bank under 
section 75 (which is the same as the limitation period in an action against the British retailer) 
cannot be delayed under section 32. Consequently, that period expired in 2019. It follows 
that the bank did not have to refund his purchase.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman