DRN-3878214
The complaint
Mr R complains about a decision taken by Motability Operations Limited (MOL) to not 
provide him with another car and about its decision to not allow the early 
cancelation/termination of his (current) hire agreement. 
What happened
In late 2019 MOL provided Mr R with a car (car 1).
In June 2021 MOL provided Mr R with a car (car 2) and allowed him to early 
cancel/terminate the hire agreement in respect of car 1. MOL waived the £250 charge 
normally payable for early cancelation/termination.
In June 2022 MOL provided Mr R with a car (car 3) and allowed him to early 
cancel/terminate the hire agreement in respect of car 2. MOL waived the £250 charge 
normally payable for early cancelation/termination.
In July 2022 MOL returned car 2 to Mr R and allowed him to early cancel/terminate the hire 
agreement in respect of car 3. MOL waived the £250 charge normally payable for early 
cancelation/termination.
Shortly after taking delivery of car 2 (for a second time) Mr R asked MOL that if he was to 
find a car that was better suited to his needs would it allow him to early cancel/terminate the 
hire agreement in respect of car 2 (for a second time).
On 11 July 2022 MOL issued Mr R with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL MOL said Mr R would need to remain in car 2 until June 2024 (three years from the 
date it was first provided to him in June 2021). In other words, it wouldnt allow early 
cancelation/termination of the hire agreement in respect of car 2 (for a second time). 
Unhappy with MOLs refusal of his request Mr R complained to our service.
Since referring his complaint to our service, Mr R has complained to MOL and our service 
about (amongst other things) a number of new and reoccurring quality issues with car 2 (in 
particular issues with the battery) and the service provided by a number of third parties 
and/or agents of MOL.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that MOL 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr R has very strong feelings about this complaint. But the purpose of my decision 
is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them, rather than addressing each and 
every point raised. I also note that Mr R would have liked the opportunity to discuss his 
complaint with me (as the ombudsman deciding his case) by telephone. But given the 
substantial written submissions Mr R has made to our service and the telephone 
conversations he has had with us I can confirm Im satisfied that I can decide this case 
without this being necessary.
I would also add that Im required to make a decision based on the evidence that is 
available. And where evidence is unavailable, or is inconclusive or contradictory, Im 
required to reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words what I 
think is more likely to have happened than not.
Finally, I would like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Mr Rs 
complaint about MOLs decision, on 11 July 2022 to not, at that particular point in time, 
provide him with another car and about its decision to refuse the early 
cancelation/termination of his (current) hire agreement.
I say this because I accept that things have moved on since 11 July 2022 with Mr R 
complaining to MOL and our service about a number of new/further issues, issues which 
have been addressed by MOL under a new and separate FRL dated 28 December 2022.
Ive read everything that Mr R has shared with our service about his various medical 
conditions. And I accept these medical conditions have made it difficult for Mr R to get a car 
that he is 100% satisfied with. 
I also accept that Mr R has a lot going on in his life and that his various medical conditions 
means his needs are great, including a need for a car that is (amongst other things) 
spacious, quiet and comfortable. 
I further accept that Mr Rs needs means his choice of car is somewhat restricted and means 
he cant now get a new one without assistance, whether in the form of a new/further 
charitable grant or some other financial assistance. 
Finally, I can confirm that Ive noted what Mr R says about the difficulty he has faced in the 
past in getting, if at all, satisfactory test drives of the various cars he has been supplied with 
by MOL.
But taking everything into account Im satisfied that MOL has done more than I would have 
expected it to have done in its attempts to try and assist Mr R and in its attempts to try and 
put him in a car that he is completely satisfied with. I say this for the following reasons:
Everything else being equal, none of the hire agreements Mr R entered into with 
MOL gave him, or gives him, the right to early terminate/cancel. Yet MOL has 
allowed early termination/cancelation on three separate occasions.
As well as allowing early termination/cancelation on three separate occasions, MOL 
has also waived fees payable for the same totalling £750 (£250 x 3).Despite what Mr R says to the contrary, Im satisfied that prior to taking delivery of 
car 2 (twice) and car 3 (once) he was given ample opportunity to make an informed 
choice about doing so. In particular, I note that car 2 was returned to Mr R at his 
request and after he had it in his possession, prior to taking delivery of car 3, for a 
year. Furthermore, MOL initially informed Mr R that returning car 2 was unlikely and it 
only agreed to do so after Mr R insisted this was the resolution he was looking for 
and after substantial discussions with the relevant dealership.
Mr R has provided our service with a report from a breakdown assistance company 
dated January 2022 stating the battery (in respect of car 2) was replaced. But Im not 
persuaded that this meant car 2 was of unsatisfactory quality. Furthermore, if Mr R 
wasnt satisfied with car 2, I dont understand why he asked, in July 2022, for it to be 
returned to him. But, for the sake of clarity, I would add that I make no finding in this 
decision as to whether any issues Mr R says he has experienced with car 2 
(including with the battery) since 11 July 2022 makes it of unsatisfactory quality or 
not. 
Mr R has also provided our service with a report from a third party engineer who 
concluded that there were issues with both car 2 and 3. But Im not persuaded that 
the issues identified by the third party engineer (including but not restricted to issues 
with the battery [car 2] and issues with the ride comfort [cars 2 and 3]) meant either 
car was of unsatisfactory quality. And I would reiterate that if Mr R wasnt satisfied 
with car 2, I dont understand why he asked for it to be returned to him. 
So, given the above and given that MOL has said it was unable to identify any issues 
with car 2 or 3 before 11 July 2022, at least no issues that couldnt be rectified and 
which in themselves didnt make either car of unsatisfactory quality, Im satisfied that 
prior to 11 July 2022 there were no quality issues with car 1 or 2 that would have 
required MOL to allow early termination/cancelation. 
I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed but taking everything into account Im satisfied that 
MOL need do nothing further in respect of this complaint. 
However, and for the avoidance of doubt, I would like to reassure Mr R that the issues he 
has raised since 11 July 2022, and which havent been considered by me in this decision, 
will be considered by our service going forward under a new and different case reference. 
And an investigator will be in touch with both Mr R and MOL shortly to introduce themselves 
and to provide the new case reference. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman