DRN-4222458
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) didnt 
close his credit card account when he asked it to. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill just provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Mr B took out a credit card with Barclaycard in 2015. He complained to Barclaycard in late 
2018 about whether the initial credit limit set, and subsequent increases, were affordable. At 
that time Mr B owed a substantial amount on his credit card account and was supported by 
family members to reduce the debt. 
Barclaycard responded in January 2019 and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it had 
carried out the appropriate affordability checks. But it offered to write off the outstanding 
balance on Mr Bs credit card  £219.44  as a gesture of goodwill.
Barclaycard reviewed Mr Bs credit card account in August 2019 and reduced Mr Bs credit 
limit from £13,000 to £7,800. 
Mr B again complained to Barclaycard in 2022. He said he had unfortunately experienced an 
episode of poor mental health in mid-2019 and as a result began overspending on his credit 
card again. Mr B said he shouldnt have been able to spend on his credit card as he had 
instructed Barclaycard to close his account back in January 2019, when it dealt with his 
earlier complaint. 
Barclaycard responded to Mr Bs complaint and reiterated what it had said back in 2019 
about the appropriate affordability checks being carried out. 
Mr B was unhappy with Barclaycards response and complained to this Service about 
Barclaycards failure to close his account in 2019. Mr B said Barclaycard had a duty of care 
towards him and should have acted on his instructions. He also said that Barclaycard sold 
his debt to a third party while he had an open complaint with it, which he thinks it shouldnt 
have done.
Barclaycard again responded to Mr Bs complaint in June 2022. It said it agreed that it failed 
to close Mr Bs account when requested to do so. It offered Mr B £100 by way of an apology, 
but said it wasnt responsible for Mr Bs spending on the card. 
When this Service contacted Barclaycard about Mr Bs complaint it said it offered Mr B £100 
as it acknowledged a potential failure to close the account, but it said it was unable to locate 
a request from Mr B to close the account. 
 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said Barclaycard provided system notes 
for the phone call in question and these didnt suggest Mr B asked Barclaycard to close his 
account. She also said Barclaycard had told Mr B in January 2019 that he could contact it if 
he wanted to decrease his credit limit or opt out of future credit limit increases. Our 
Investigator thought Barclaycard had treated Mr B fairly.
  
Mr B didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to first of all say that I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr B and the situation he 
finds himself in. 
Mr B is certain he instructed Barclaycard back in January 2019 to close his credit card 
account. For its part, Barclaycard has said it hasnt been able to locate a request to close the 
account. 
Barclaycard hasnt been able to locate a recording of the phone call from January 2019 
where Mr B said he made the closure request. This isnt surprising, given the length of time 
thats passed between that call and Mr B bringing the complaint to this Service. Businesses 
will largely only retain this type of information for a limited period of time, so I cant fault 
Barclaycard for not being able to provide a recording of the call. This means its not possible 
for me to know for sure what was said on the call and Ive had to rely on other information 
available to me to decide whether Barclaycard failed to follow a clear instruction to close the 
account. 
Barclaycard provided me with a copy of its system notes in relation to the call in question. 
These are brief and dont mention a request to close the account. I can also see that the final 
response letter sent by Barclaycard to Mr B immediately following the call, and which 
references the call, doesnt mention a request to close the account. So, based on the 
documentary evidence Ive been presented with, I cant see anything that confirms that a 
request to close the account was made. 
I think its also important to note that the final response letter made it clear that the account 
hadnt been closed. In the letter, Barclaycard told Mr B that if in the future he feels he might 
struggle with the repayment of his balance, then he should contact Barclaycards dedicated 
team who may be able to help. So even if Mr B thought he made a request for the account to 
be closed  and I want to assure him that Ive taken his testimony about the call into 
consideration  I think he would have known back in January 2019, once he received the 
final response letter, that the instruction hadnt been carried out. I think Mr B had an 
opportunity at that stage to go back to Barclaycard and let it know his account was still open, 
but he didnt do that. 
 
Its clear from the final response letter that Mr B told Barclaycard that he was experiencing 
mental health issues, and that he let it know he was in a financial mess. So Ive considered 
whether Barclaycard acted appropriately following those disclosures. And Im satisfied it did. 
Ill explain why I say this.
I wouldnt necessarily have expected Barclaycard to review Mr Bs account, either with a 
view to amending his credit limit or closing his account, following the disclosures, in 
particular because his account was in good working order at that point in time. Broadly 
speaking, I would expect consumers with vulnerabilities such as those disclosed by Mr B, to 
be dealt with positively and sympathetically. In relation to the mental health difficulties he was experiencing, I can see that Barclaycard 
provided Mr B with the contact details for its specialist support team, who it said could 
provide support and advice to Mr B. It also provided contact details for an external mental 
health organisation. Barclaycard also provided Mr B with the contact details for a dedicated 
team, should he struggle with repayments in the future.   
So I think Barclaycard did enough when it responded to Mr Bs disclosures by letting him 
know where he could get further support and advice.  
To summarise, from the information Ive been provided with, I cant see that a clear 
instruction to close the credit card account was made by Mr B to Barclaycard back in 
January 2019. I am also satisfied that it didnt need to take action to amend Mr Bs credit 
limit or close his account following his disclosures in January 2019 about his mental health 
issues and the difficulties he had managing his finances. 
I know that Mr B was also unhappy that Barclaycard sold his debt to a third party while he 
had an outstanding complaint. But Barclaycard doesnt need to wait for a complaint to be 
resolved before taking steps to recover a debt. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr B, but I am not asking Barclaycard to take further 
action here.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman