DRN-1576784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Cambria Automobiles (South East) Limited tried to provide them 
with a finance agreement which would have left them £400 worse off after reducing the price 
it was prepared to offer for the vehicle they were trading in.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K visited Cambria and expressed interest in acquiring a car. They were given a 
price for the new one and a value for their current car. They were offered £5000 before 
deduction of the outstanding finance. Subsequently, it reduced this offer by £400. A new 
finance quote which was provided which offered the same monthly repayments. Mr K wasnt 
happy with this and after a number of lengthy calls the dealer offered him a lower rate.
Mr K complained and as he remained dissatisfied with the response from Cambria he 
brought the matter to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
He explained that there were two separate processes, one being the sale of the car and the 
agreement of the price and the second being the arranging of the finance. He said the first 
process is not a regulated activity covered by the Financial Conduct Authority.  This meant 
that he was unable to consider that part of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
However, he was able to consider the variation of the finance agreement. He listened to the 
calls and reviewed the evidence supplied by Mr K and Cambria and concluded that there 
had been changes resulting from the change in prices for the new and old cars, but that 
Cambria hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr K didnt agree and said with them borrowing less it was mathematically impossible for 
them to end up paying the same monthly sums. He said it would have resulted in them 
paying £432 more had he not persevered with his phone calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them. This means I am unable to impose a fine on the business as Mr K has 
suggested.
In any event, I do not think that there has been anything which would merit such action. I 
appreciate the strength of opinion shown by Mr K in pursuit of this complaint, but I do not 
consider I can uphold it. I will explain why.
As our investigator has explained I cannot consider the price of the new car or the value 
given for the old one. What I can consider is whether there was any error with the finance 
they took out.  
I have listened to the calls and I can see that there was confusion and Cambria has 
accepted that this did happen. However, I dont think there was any malicious intent. Mr K 
was very persistent in his questioning and the salesman suggested he come in so they could 
go through the deal and the finance but Mr K felt that would be inconvenient. I can see why 
he took that view, but I suspect this issue may not have arisen if he and the salesman were 
able to sit down and go through it in detail rather than have a series of phone calls.
After several calls the final details were agreed and a lower monthly payment was accepted 
which meant they will pay £432 less than originally suggested. I gather Mr and Mrs K do not 
dispute this is the correct figure. Mr Ks concern is that they might have signed up for an 
incorrect figure, but the reality is that they didnt. The only issue is that the discussions over 
the phone lacked the clarity and perhaps the accuracy which finally prevailed when the 
agreement was taken out. 
Cambria offered Mr and Mrs K a full tank of petrol and a free service as part of its goodwill 
gesture due to their experience in the handling of the transaction. That strikes me as a 
reasonable response. I would add that Mr and Mrs K were able to walk away from the deal if 
they so chose. I note that when their deposit was taken they were told that if no agreement 
could be reached it would be refunded. However, they did pursue the purchase and I dont 
consider they have lost out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman