DRN-2180847
The complaint
Mr S complains that he and his wife were pressured into taking out a new life insurance 
policy by Lloyds Bank PLC.
 
What happened
Mr S says that in 2004 he approached Lloyds about an overdraft but was also pressured into 
purchasing some other products. These included a packaged bank account (about which a 
complaint has already been upheld) and the life policy in question. 
Mr S and his wife had an existing life policy with another provider that protected a mortgage 
theyd recently taken out. It was a decreasing term assurance policy providing life and critical 
illness cover. The Lloyds adviser recommended a replacement policy that provided the same 
cover but for a lower premium - £47.85 as opposed to £58.68. 
Mr S says they were advised to cancel the existing policy and did so while the application 
process for the new policy was ongoing. Cover for Mr S wife was subsequently declined, 
and the policy eventually proceeded in his name only. This meant his wife was left unable to 
make a claim. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It felt the recommendation had been suitable, and it 
noted that the suitability letter issued to Mr S and his wife had highlighted that the existing 
policy shouldnt be cancelled until the new cover had been confirmed. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Lloyds. He too felt the recommendation to start the new, cheaper policy had been suitable 
and felt Mr S had been made aware of the importance of not cancelling the existing policy 
too soon. 
Mr S didnt accept this. He said, in brief;
The policy was mis-sold as they were pressured into it and were vulnerable at the 
time. 
The adviser was aware they were desperate as they needed the extended overdraft.
The monthly saving was of no consequence. 
The adviser added a payment protection insurance (PPI) element to the policy solely 
for commission purposes. 
It was underhand of the adviser to slip the wording about not cancelling into a large 
amount of text in the suitability letter. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view, so the matters been referred to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I note what Mr S has said about him and his wife being vulnerable at the time of the sale and 
therefore pressured by the adviser into the purchase. I can understand why he might have 
felt that way, particularly if he and his wife were at the time keen to get their overdraft facility. 
But in respect of the recommendation of the life and critical illness policy, I cant see that the 
adviser acted incorrectly. The new policy matched the existing cover and for a cheaper price. 
Its not unusual for a different business to be able to offer a cheaper quote for insurance, 
particularly if the existing policy hasnt been in place for long, as I understand was the case 
here.
If, as Mr S has indicated, he and his wife were in a difficult financial situation, then I also 
cant see that the potential to save £10 per month would be of no consequence, or an 
unreasonable thing for the adviser to suggest. In respect of the PPI, there was a Payment 
Cover element to the new policy, which wouldve helped meet the premiums in the event of 
illness. But the cost of this was included in the new total premium of £47.85, so the overall 
saving still applied. And the commission paid to the adviser for making the sale of the policy 
was clearly set out in the illustration. Overall, Im satisfied this was a suitable 
recommendation.
In respect of the cancellation of the existing policy, I note Mr S recollections about them 
being told by the adviser to cancel it, but I can see no benefit to the adviser in saying the 
policy should be cancelled prematurely. And, as noted, it was made clear in the 
documentation supplied to Mr S and his wife that this shouldnt be done before the new 
policy was in place. I dont think that the information was hidden away  in fact, there was a 
specific section dealing with cancelled policies and the potential consequences related to 
this. 
Ultimately, had the new application proceeded as planned then Mr S and his wife wouldve 
achieved a considerable saving over the term of the policy. But the crux of the matter was 
that it didnt proceed as planned, as Mr S wife effectively lost her cover as a result of the 
cancellation of the existing policy. 
However, as noted, I dont think the evidence supports a finding that this loss of cover is 
Lloyds fault. I can see why Mr S now feels that Lloyds shouldnt have made the 
recommendation to replace the existing policy, because if it hadnt done so his wife wouldve 
retained her cover. But, as noted, the recommendation only really became a problem when 
the existing policy was prematurely cancelled, and in my view that wasnt the fault of Lloyds.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman