DRN-4023784
The complaint
Mr E complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as FLOW (LV) 
declined a claim he made on his motor insurance policy. He also complains that his policy 
was cancelled and the claim was marked as fraud. 
What happened
Mr E has comprehensive insurance cover with LV which renewed in May 2022.  
Mr E says he woke up one morning in October and saw that his car had been broken into. 
Some hairdressing equipment in a bag were stolen from the boot of his car. Mr E works as a 
self-employed hairdresser and brought those items home to use on himself and his partner. 
Mr E contacted the police and obtained a crime reference number. 
Mr E explained that he looked into claiming on his business and home insurance policies 
before claiming on his motor insurance policy. Mr E says his business policy provider said it 
wouldnt accept the claim since the items were left unattended in the vehicle overnight. So 
he contacted his home insurer but they said they wouldnt cover the claim since the items 
stolen were classed as professional tools. 
So Mr E contacted LV who said it would investigate the claim. Mr E says three weeks 
passed and he hadnt heard anything from LV so he called for an update. LV said it wasnt 
satisfied with the claim since it found hed tried to claim for the stolen items on his home 
insurance policy, which was rejected due to the stolen items being for business use. He said 
he told his home insurer he bought the equipment home because they were personal tools; 
even though he is a professional hairdresser. 
Mr E said he had to replace the items which cost more than the amount LV quoted him, 
taking into account he would have to pay an excess, he would be out of pocket. So he asked 
for the claim to be cancelled. 
Mr E received an email from LV which said it had investigated his claim and believed it to be 
fraudulent. Mr Es policy was cancelled. As a result Mr E had to find alternative cover which 
was more expensive because of the cancelled policy. 
Mr E wants the fraud marker removed and to be reimbursed for the additional cost of his 
new insurance premium. And so he complained to LV. 
LV said Mr Es home insurer confirmed he had presented a claim for the stolen items to 
them. But the insurer told Mr E since the items were for business use they were not covered 
by the terms of the policy and the claim was repudiated. Mr E had told LV he had contacted 
his business insurer who declined the claim on the basis the items had been left in the 
vehicle. It said Mr E had confirmed the items were usually kept at the salon and therefore LV 
would consider them to be for business use. 
LV said it expressed concerns about the claim during the call with Mr E at the end of 
October; in particular that he had changed the use of items to fit the policy cover. LV said it 
offered Mr E an opportunity to add any further details or make any changes but he withdrew 
his claim. And so it believed Mr E had acted dishonestly by attempting to make a false claim. 
So LV didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr E wasnt happy with the response from LV and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she listened to the calls and 
could see why LV thought Mr E changed the use of the items to fit the policy cover. So she 
thought LV acted fairly and in line with the conditions of cover. 
Mr E didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr E has been 
through a difficult time and I know this isnt the answer he wanted; I empathise with the 
position he now finds himself in. So I will explain my decision below. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly, and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive thought about whether LV acted in line with 
this. The fraud condition in Mr Es policy says, If you or anyone representing you gives us 
misleading or incorrect information when making a claim or any part of any claim that is 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated, you will lose all benefits under this policy. We will cancel 
the policy and retain all premiums youve paid. 
The policy goes on to say, We may pass details to fraud prevention and law enforcement 
agencies whose members may access and use this information. 
In relying on the condition quoted above the onus falls to LV to show that it applies. Its 
important to note that it isnt my role to decide whether Mr E has been fraudulent or not. 
Rather, Ive needed to think about whether LV came to a fair and reasonable conclusion that 
Mr E breached the fraud condition based on its investigation and evidence. And Im satisfied 
it came to a fair and reasonable conclusion in this instance. 
LV has provided its claim notes and I can see it has looked into things thoroughly. Where 
there were inconsistencies in what Mr E had told it, it has raised these concerns, and sought 
an explanation from Mr E, which I think was reasonable. LV said Mr E gave different insurers 
different explanations for the items. It said the explanations of the items appeared to be 
inconsistent and changed to fit the different policies. And based on the evidence Ive been 
provided with I think LV assessed the matter fairly and came to a reasonable conclusion that 
the fraud condition had been breached. Mr E reported the theft in October 2022. At the time 
Mr E reported the theft to LV he described the items as being backpack with personal items 
in there. And when specifically asked whether the items were for work Mr E says they were 
for personal use and he was going to use them to cut his and his girlfriends hair. 
Mr Es home insurer told LV that the claim submitted to them was declined on the basis the 
items were for business use. In the call to his home insurer on the day of the theft Mr E told 
them he is a hairdresser and he only brought the items home to do his girlfriends hair but 
now he cant work. So I think its reasonable for LV to query this given that in his claim to LV 
he said the items were for personal use. 
Mr E has said the items can be purchased by anyone at a high street store and so they must 
be classed as personal. But the issue isnt where the items can be purchased. The issue is that the items Mr E was trying to claim for were used mainly for his line of work and were 
kept at his place of work. So regardless of the fact he brought the items home to use 
personally, they are classed as business items. And its likely Mr Es business insurer would 
have covered the cost of the items but for where they were stolen from. 
In his email to our investigator Mr E says he has always maintained he brought his 
equipment home to use personally and that professional tools are routinely purchased by 
hairdressers. And I think this further demonstrates that the items were purchased and used 
in his line of work but on the day the items were stolen he had brought them home to use 
personally. 
Mr E has also argued that LV were told he was a hairdresser at the time of the claim and 
when he took the policy out so he should have been told the tools wouldnt be covered. But 
the terms explain that items used in the course of business arent covered by the policy. And 
that is why he has separate business insurance. 
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. Having reviewed 
the information provided in this case Im satisfied LV conducted a fair and reasonable review 
of the claim and didnt act unreasonably in light of the evidence received. Overall I think it 
assessed the information and came to a fair conclusion that the fraud condition was 
breached. The fraud condition in Mr Es policy allows for LV to void the policy, keep the 
premiums, and decline the claim. So Im satisfied it acted fairly in taking these steps. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr E but having carefully considered the 
complaint I think LV acted fairly and within the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman