DRN-1571262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about poor mortgage advice given by Stonebridge Mortgage 
Solutions Ltd. They say that, as a result of this advice, they were caused distress and 
inconvenience for which they want to be compensated.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were purchasing a new property, with the assistance of a mortgage with a 
lender I will call NW, arranged by Stonebridge. They were keeping their existing property 
and arranging a let to buy (LTB) mortgage on it with a different lender, BM. 
Mr and Mrs C wanted to carry out work on their new property and so they asked Stonebridge 
if they were able to have a 30-day window between completing on their LTB mortgage and 
their new residential mortgage. On 19 September 2019 the broker confirmed that this 
wouldnt be a problem.
However, this information was incorrect and the lenders required both mortgages to be 
completed on the same day.  Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor confirmed this on 20 November 2019. 
BM also said that it would be a breach of the LTB mortgage if Mr and Mrs C continued to live 
there after the LTB mortgage had completed.
On 21 November 2019 Mr and Mrs C complained to Stonebridge, as this left their plans in 
disarray and they would need to arrange temporary accommodation over Christmas for their 
family and pets. 
Stonebridge liaised with the lenders and on 28 November 2019 the lenders agreed to allow 
Mr and Mrs C up to 30 days to completing their new purchase and move out of their existing 
property.
Mr and Mrs C were also unhappy that, after their broker left Stonebridge, emails sent to him 
were not forwarded to anyone else. As a result, emails from NW went unanswered. This 
caused further distress and upset to Mr and Mrs C.
In response to the complaint about the 30-day mortgage window, Stonebridge accepted the 
broker had made a mistake, and offered to refund the broker fee of £790 which Mr and 
Mrs C had paid for their services. 
In relation to the email issues, Stonebridge accepted there had been a failure in its IT system 
which meant that the brokers emails had not automatically been forwarded to another staff 
members Inbox. Stonebridge offered £50 compensation for this.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with the compensation offered. Theyve pointed out that 
Stonebridge will be paid about £5,000 for arranging the two mortgages, so simply refunding 
the broker fee is insufficient compensation. Mr and Mrs C also say they had to carry out a 
considerable amount of work themselves that the broker should have done as a result of the 
IT failure. Mr and Mrs C also say the errors made raise a huge red flag in their minds and 
have led them to conclude that the mortgages might have been mis-sold.
An investigator looked at the complaint but thought that the compensation offered was 
sufficient. She didnt think Stonebridge needed to do anything further. The investigator also 
noted that Mr and Mrs C hadnt specified how or why they thought the mortgages had been 
mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Theyve reiterated that this 
was very stressful and that they had to liaise with their lenders, solicitors and Stonebridge in 
order to arrange the 30-day crossover on completing their mortgages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
First, Im glad to note that Stonebridge has accepted it made mistakes, both in relation to the 
30-day completion delay, and in respect of IT issues. This means I dont have to decide who 
is at fault; the only issue is the level of compensation thats appropriate.
Mr and Mrs C found out that they couldnt delay completion on their new purchase and 
mortgage on 20 November 2019. I see that by 28 November 2019 the issue had been 
resolved, with the lenders agreeing the 30-day window. I appreciate that for those 8 days Mr 
and Mrs C were left in a stressful position. But I think the offer to refund the broker fee of 
£790 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and is proportionate to the distress 
caused over a relatively short period of time, just over a week.
In relation to the IT issues, Stonebridge has accepted this shouldnt have happened. I think 
the offer of £50 compensation for this is fair and reasonable. I dont think the delay in 
locating emails caused any substantial delay in the transactions being completed.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Stonebridge will receive payment from the 
lenders for arranging these mortgages and think the compensation Stonebridge should pay 
should reflect this. But I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, and any award of 
compensation I make is unrelated to any arrangement between lender and broker for a 
contractual payment of fees. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the compensation offered by Stonebridge  a total of £840  is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate both to the errors made and the period of time over which Mr 
and Mrs C were affected by the errors.
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs C have said about their suspicions that the mortgages might 
have been mis-sold  in other words, that the products arent suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs 
needs. Mr and Mrs C havent said exactly why they think these mortgages were unsuitable, 
but in any event, this is a new issue which we cant consider in an existing complaint. Mr and 
Mrs C will need to raise this first with Stonebridge as a fresh complaint, and if it cant be 
resolved, then theyll be able to bring a complaint to us about the regulated residential 
mortgage. The LTB mortgage is unregulated and so a complaint that it was mis-sold 
wouldnt fall within the scope of our rules.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Im satisfied that the 
compensation offered by Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd of £840 is fair and reasonable. 
I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs C to decide if theyd like to accept it in full and final settlement 
of their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman