DRN-1464882
complaint
Mr U says Evergreen Finance London Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one loan Evergreen Finance provided to Mr U on 1 June 2018 for 
£400. Evergreen Finance says there is still an outstanding balance left on the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Us complaint and thought this loan shouldnt have been given. 
Evergreen Finance disagreed as it felt the checks it did was proportionate, and even though 
it obtained Mr Us credit file showing Mr U had other outstanding short-term loans, the nature 
of their processes meant that it wasnt able to consider all the evidence in detail  specially 
so early in the lending relationship. So as Evergreen disagreed the complaint has been 
passed to me to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Evergreen Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr U could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Evergreen Finance should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Evergreen Finance was required to establish whether Mr U could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Us complaint.
I agree with Evergreen Finance that this was Mr Us first loan and so early on in a lending 
relationship gathering basic data about Mr Us income and expenditure to establish if the 
loan was affordable would be proportionate. But Evergreen Finance did obtain Mr Us credit 
report before agreeing to lend Mr U this loan. This credit report showed that Mr U had a 
number of outstanding short-term loans with other providers at this time. This information 
suggests that Mr U was not managing his finances well as he was borrowing from another of 
other short-term loan providers. Having this information in hand, I think a responsible lender 
ought to have realised that it was unlikely Mr U wouldve been able to repay this loan or any 
further loans in a sustainable manner.   
So, Im upholding the complaint as I dont think Evergreen Limited should lent Mr U this loan. 
Evergreen Finance should put things right.
Putting things right
If Evergreen Finance have sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Evergreen Finance are not able to buy the debt back 
then you should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Evergreen Finance should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on this 
upheld outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr U as though they had been 
repayments of the principal for this outstanding loan. If this results in Mr U having made 
overpayments then Evergreen Finance should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Evergreen Finance should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step C.
If there is still an outstanding balance, then Evergreen Finance should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr U.
Evergreen Finance should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Us credit 
file in relation this loan. If Evergreen Finance has sold the debt it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen Finance to take off tax from this interest. 
Evergreen Finance must give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Us complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman