DRN-3806740
The complaint
Mr M complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly cancelled his home 
equipment cover.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had cover with D&G for home equipment, such as iPads, games consoles and white 
goods. D&G decided to cancel his cover because his claims were too frequent and 
unlikely to be coincidental or unintentional. Mr M doesnt think D&G has treated him fairly. 
He says, in summary, he could be covered for an unlimited number of items and the high 
number of claims is because of his large household. 
Mr Ms cover with D&G was across more than one brand and so the terms differ. But they all 
allow for D&G to cancel cover if it suspects claims are being made in any way dishonest, 
exaggerated, or fraudulent.  I find these terms reasonable given the nature of an insurance 
contract. What I must decide, therefore, is whether D&G applied them fairly. 
To explain its decision D&G has provided information demonstrating Mr Ms claims history. 
Having reviewed this information I find it was reasonable for D&G to suspect that, even in 
light of what Mr M has said about his household, claims may have been made in a 
dishonest, exaggerated, or fraudulent way. It follows I find it was fair and reasonable for 
D&G to cancel Mr Ms cover. 
I have also considered how D&G implemented its decision. I find it gave Mr M fair notice of 
its decision, agreed to settle outstanding claims, refunded some premiums and didnt record 
the cover as cancelled externally. I find this too was fair and reasonable as it meant Mr M 
had an opportunity to source alternative cover. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman
