DRN-4097338
The complaint
Mrs M complained, through a claims management company (CMC), that she was mis-
advised when Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) recommended her to invest 
into a Personal Equity Plan (PEP). 
What happened
In 1996, Mrs M invested a lump sum of £6,000 into the medium risk UK Growth Fund 
through a PEP, a form of tax efficient equity based investment. This product later became a 
stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). The most recent information Ive seen 
leads me to think that Mrs M still has this investment.
Mrs M said she was advised to invest too much of her money and the fund was too risky for 
her as an inexperienced first time investor. To put things right, Mrs M wants redress based 
on the performance of an investment product that would have been more suitable for her. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It said:
Mrs M had retained over £16,000 on deposit after investing and she also had 
disposable income, so couldve added to her savings 
she still held her ISA and hadnt needed to access it for over 12 years from when 
it began 
she had told Halifaxs complaint handler that she wasnt short of money after 
investing
all this demonstrates the investment was affordable and sustainable for Mrs M 
and Halifax didnt invest too much of her money.
Mrs Ms circumstances and financial situation meant she had capacity to take a 
medium risk with her investment 
she had plenty of time over two separate meetings with the Halifax advisor to 
make an informed choice on whether the level of risk suited her circumstances 
and aims
Halifax had given no guarantees about what Mrs M would make on her 
investment. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this response and brought her complaint to us via the CMC. She 
mainly said she wasnt given suitable advice and the recommended UK Growth Fund 
contained too much risk for a first time investor.
The investigator who considered Mrs Ms complaint thought that the UK Growth Fund, being 
100% equity based, hadnt been suitable for Mrs M when she was far from being an 
experienced investor. So she recommended upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
Halifax didnt agree. It mainly said that the investigators comments were not in line with 
previous views issued by this Service  and it provided examples of cases it said showed 
that the investigators recommendation to uphold this complaint was inconsistent with our 
general approach in similar cases. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She said that we look at each case 
on its own individual merits, so she had only considered Mrs Ms situation. She said she 
acknowledged that Mrs M was willing to take some risk, but that she shouldn't have been 
exposed to an investment comprising 100% equities, considering her circumstances, 
objectives and lack of experience.The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
In coming to my provisional decision, I've listened to the call recording Halifax provided 
which has helped me to understand what Mrs M recalled about her hopes and expectations 
for the investment when she took it out. I appreciate that Mrs M was trying to remember 
discussions that had taken place over 25 years or so previously, so I can completely 
understand why Mrs M found it hard to be sure about some of the details of her discussions 
with the advisor. 
I've also had the benefit of seeing the information recorded in Halifaxs Personal Financial 
Report which was prepared by the advisor at the point of sale in 1996 (the fact find). So, 
I have relied also on the information in the fact find on the basis that this is a 
contemporaneous record of at least some of what was said. 
The following information is recorded in the fact find:
Mrs M was still a long way off state pensionable age, employed in secure paid work 
with excellent pension benefits and paying basic rate tax. She also had some extra 
unearned income, giving her around £834 total net income each month.
Mrs M was a homeowner with a mortgage, supported by endowments.
She had no other financial liabilities.
Together with the other adult member of her household, Mrs M had monthly 
disposable income of around £234.
She held cash savings of more than £22,000 in a deposit based account.
She wanted a contingency fund of around £6,000. 
She did not expect to need to draw on her capital for any income over the next five 
years.
Mrs M was disappointed with current interest rates and happy to invest in a tax 
efficient way for a term of at least five years.Mrs Ms usual monthly outgoings were amply covered out of her earnings. To fund this 
investment, Mrs M was using just over a quarter of her cash savings and she still had the 
contingency fund she wanted to keep. She had a surplus each month that she could have 
used to build up her cash savings again. Overall, I am satisfied that Mrs M was in a strong 
enough financial situation to be able to invest £6,000 into the PEP.  
It seems not to be in dispute that Mrs M wanted to earn a greater return than that received 
on a bank deposit account. She didnt require any income from the investment and she 
was prepared to invest for the medium term and at least the next five years. 
Ive thought carefully about how Mrs Ms investment in the UK Growth fund fitted in with her 
overall investment position  and whether it tipped the balance towards too much exposure 
to risk or meant Mrs Ms overall risk exposure didnt properly reflect a level of risk that felt 
comfortable for Mrs M. 
Mrs M told Halifax that she didnt recall being made fully aware of investment risks  she 
said she couldnt say 100% if she understood that the value of her investment could go up or 
down.
The fact find referred to the advisor having talked to Mrs M about capital investment and the 
advisor recorded the following information: 
With regard to GROWTH, you prefer your capital to grow in real terms.With regard to 
INVESTMENT ATTITUDE, in your opinion it is sensible to maintain a balanced portfolio 
where there are prospects of security, real growth and/or income. 
The advisors notes mentioned that there had been discussion around equity based 
investments offering potentially better returns than a building society. Also, that out of two 
recommendations Halifax made at the time, Mrs M wished to proceed only with the £6,000 
PEP investment.
The advisor prepared a personal illustration for Mrs M which set out some examples of the 
returns that could be achieved with her £6,000 investment and included the information: You 
could get back more or less than this.
The illustration referred to an accompanying booklet which set out the Key Features of the 
Halifax Growth PEP and Ive no reason to think Mrs M wouldnt have seen all this at the 
time.  
Mrs M signed the fact find from the first meeting with the advisor to confirm what was 
recorded was an accurate reflection of her financial circumstances and that the risk warnings 
had been explained to her. She later acknowledged safe receipt after the advisor sent Mrs M 
the report with his recommendations confirming that she had read and understood its 
contents as discussed at their meetings. So, I think it is reasonable for me to rely on the 
information it shows about Mrs Ms risk approach at the time. And all this suggests to me 
that there was a discussion about the potential benefits of equity investment and Mrs M had 
some understanding of investment risk and the investment choices she needed to make. I find that Mrs M was happy to take some risk with her money and she wouldve needed to 
do that in order to have a chance of getting the returns she hoped for. 
I have carefully considered how Mrs Ms money was invested and how far this matched her 
objectives and circumstances. This includes what Mrs M wanted to achieve and what risk 
she was able to take.
The best information now available about the UK Growth Fund in 1996 suggests the fund 
was invested in equities, mostly in well-established large UK companies and focused on 
medium to long term growth. But it doesnt follow that an equity based fund rated medium 
risk would be unsuitable for Mrs M. 
Whilst it is the case that equities expose investors to market fluctuations and can be 
volatile, and so carry a higher risk than fixed-interest securities, they also offer the chance 
of a better return. I have no reason to think that Mrs M hadnt understood the information 
shed been provided with during discussions with the advisor about risk and reward or that 
she wasnt comfortable risking her money this way. I think its likely she wouldve 
understood at the time that investing in equities meant she should be prepared to expect a 
degree of volatility and she appreciated the basic principle that investment risk is 
commensurate with potential return  even if her memory of that is now, unsurprisingly, 
rather hazy. 
One of Mrs Ms main concerns is that the advice to invest in the PEP was unsuitable 
because this was too risky an investment for her as a first-time investor. But, whilst the 
clients investment experience is something that the advisor should consider when advising 
on investments, the fact alone that someone is new to investing does not automatically 
mean only investment in low risk or no risk investments should be recommended. That 
would unfairly deny a first-time investor the opportunity to make bigger investment gains 
than they could otherwise achieve.
Bearing in mind Mrs Ms circumstances and financial situation, and her investment 
objective, I've cant fairly say that investing in the medium risk PEP for at least a five year 
term wasnt right for her. 
Mrs M hoped the investment would grow her money over time  the PEP offered her that 
potential. After keeping back the contingency amount she wanted to preserve in cash, her 
£6,000 investment in the PEP represented a little over a third of Mrs Ms investable assets. 
Given her age, her circumstances and her overall financial situation, I find she was able to 
absorb any losses she could potentially have suffered on this investment  in other words, 
without this impacting on her day to day spending needs which were already more than 
adequately covered without her needing to rely on this money. I think this is borne out by the 
fact that Mrs M still has this ISA despite some large fluctuations in value over the lifetime of 
the investment.  
Putting into equities only a relatively small portion of the money she held on deposit offered 
Mrs M the benefits of the potentially higher returns she was looking for whilst at the same 
time limiting the impact on her overall financial situation of making a potential loss. I wouldnt reasonably expect Mrs M to recall all this information after so long. But, as far as 
I can see, she wouldve had enough time and sufficient information to make an informed 
investment decision.  
I've taken into account that Mrs M told Halifax she wasnt ever short of money after she 
invested, and that whilst she had been looking for a bit more back from her investment she 
also said this was something she hoped for rather than what the advisor had led her to 
expect. 
To sum up, for the reasons I have set out more fully above, I havent seen enough to make 
me think that Mrs M risked too much of her money in the PEP or that the UK Growth fund 
was too risky an investment for Mrs M or otherwise unsuitable. I am satisfied that the 
recommendation met Mrs Ms identified needs and investment objectives and it was suitable 
for her circumstances and financial situation. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mrs M but I hope 
that setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs M hasnt commented on what I've said. Halifax confirmed it was in agreement with the 
findings made in my provisional decision. As the deadline for responses has now passed, 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman