The complaint
Mr M has complained about loans granted to him by PDL Finance Limited trading as
Mr Lender (Mr Lender or the lender). Mr M says Mr Lender was irresponsible to agree to 
lend to him because, had it carried out better checks, it would have seen that he was 
borrowing from many other short term lenders and could not afford these loans.
What happened
Mr Lender agreed five loans for Mr M between May 2016 and February 2019. The loans 
ranged in value from £500 to £200 and the terms varied. The below table sets out some 
information Mr Lender has provided about these loans (with numbers rounded to the nearest 
pound). I understand Mr M has repaid all of them.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid InstalmentsAmount
(£)Highest 
Repayment 
(£)
1 31/05/2016 26/08/2016 6 500.00 191.33
2 26/09/2016 30/09/2016 6 700.00 290.26
3 27/01/2017 27/05/2017 5 450.00 188.28
4 29/08/2017 26/01/2018 4 200.00 93.20
5 26/02/2019 24/05/2019 3 200.00 111.46
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ms complaint and did not recommend that it be upheld. 
Mr M didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the case to come to an 
ombudsman for review and final decision. 
Mr Lender offered a voucher for a small sum to Mr M as a goodwill gesture when he first 
complained to it and before he brought his complaint to this Service. I understand that this 
was offered as a goodwill gesture because the lender said that it didnt want to leave Mr M 
feeling unhappy with the service he received, although it disagreed that it had lent 
irresponsibly. 
Mr M says that he expected Mr Lender to fulfil this offer irrespective of whatever happened 
during the course of his complaint. I think this is a matter between Mr M and Mr Lender. 
Mr Ms complaint is about irresponsible lending and my decision will focus on whether 
everything happened as it should have in this regard.
DRN-1445893What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mr M took out his loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all loans 
Mr Lender needed to check that Mr M could afford to meet his repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant Mr M being able to meet his repayments out of his normal income 
without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Mr Lender needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether Mr M would be able to meet his repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in the context 
of Mr Ms case. Having done so, I am not upholding his complaint. I appreciate that this will 
be disappointing for him and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why Ive come to 
this conclusion.  
Mr Lender says it asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure each time 
he applied for a loan. It recorded his monthly income as ranging from £1,400 to £1,500 and 
his monthly expenses as ranging from about £600 to over £1,000. These figures included 
existing debt repayments. I understand Mr M told Mr Lender that he was living with his 
parents and that his rent of £200 covered the council tax and all household bills. 
Mr Ms first loan was for £500, to be repaid in six instalments of about £190. From the 
information Mr M gave it seemed he had a disposable income of about £800, even after 
making repayments to his existing debts. I think the assessment Mr Lender carried out here 
was in proportion to the circumstances. Mr M didnt have a previous borrowing relationship 
with the lender that it ought to have taken into account. The loan repayments didnt take up 
such a significant proportion of his monthly income that this alone might render the lending 
irresponsible. And it seems from the information Mr M gave Mr Lender that he had enough 
disposable income to sustainably meet his loan repayments each month. Mr M says that the information he gave Mr Lender didnt fully reflect his circumstances.  I 
understand from what Mr M has told this Service that he was not in a good position 
financially when he applied to Mr Lender for his loans, and hes provided some supporting 
information for this. 
In some cases I might think that a lender ought to have taken further steps to understand the 
full extent of a borrowers financial situation before agreeing credit, irrespective of the 
information theyve provided. But, given the amount Mr M was borrowing and that this was 
early in their lending relationship, I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr Lender to rely on 
what Mr M said about his circumstances.
I have also considered that Mr Lender says it carried out a check with a third-party credit 
reference agency when agreeing Mr Ms loans. It has provided a high level summary of 
some results though not the detail of them. Mr Lender said that it didnt find anything in its 
credit checks to suggest that it ought to have looked further into Mr Ms financial situation 
before agreeing to lend to him and, from what Ive seen, that seems to be the case. 
The information someone might see or expect to see reported on their credit file might be 
different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. The data might not be up to date, or the lender 
may not have requested all of the available data from the credit reference agency. So, this 
may explain any differences between the information Mr Lender received from its credit 
check and the information Mr M says it should potentially have seen. 
Mr M repaid his first loan early and took out a second loan about a month later. He repaid 
this within days. The monthly repayments for this were higher but, for the same reasons as 
with his first loan, I dont think Mr Lender was irresponsible to have agreed to this.
There was a gap of four months before Mr M applied again to Mr Lender for a loan, which 
was for a lower amount than hed taken out before. Given hed been borrowing for about four 
months before this gap, I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr Lender to think that
Mr Ms circumstances had moved on, that he was in a better position to take on credit and 
so in assessing his application for a third loan could treat him as it would a new customer. 
And, as before, it seems from the information Mr Lender had that Mr M would be able to 
sustainably meet his repayments for this loan each month.
There was another gap, this time of three months, before Mr M applied for another loan. I 
appreciate that this was Mr Ms fourth loan with Mr Lender and that Mr Lender knew that he 
had been in the market for short term loans for over a year when he asked for this. So I have 
considered whether it was fair of Mr Lender to continue to rely on what Mr M said about his 
circumstances and whether it ought to have taken steps to verify the information before 
agreeing credit. 
However, Mr Ms fourth loan was for a much lower amount than any of his previous loans. 
And his pattern of borrowing up to now had included gaps of various lengths between his 
loans. I can understand why Mr Lender would think that Mr M wasnt reliant on its loans to 
meet his monthly living costs, given these gaps and the reducing loan amount. And, again, 
the information Mr Lender had suggested that Mr M would be able to meet his repayments 
for this loan sustainably. 
Mr Lender acknowledged that Mr M opted to extend this loan during the application process 
and said that this provided him with flexibility and was not a sign of financial difficulty.  I can 
accept that extending a loan isnt automatically a sign of financial difficulty, and in this case I 
dont think it was, given the circumstances of this loan and that Mr M opted to build in an 
extension at the point of application. My conclusions about Mr Ms fifth loan, taken out after more than a years gap and for the 
same amount, are similar.
I dont doubt that things have not been easy for Mr M and Im sorry to hear of his difficulties. I 
can understand why he feels Mr Lender shouldnt have agreed to lend to him at this time. 
However, as Ive explained, I dont think it did anything wrong by agreeing these loans for 
him in the circumstances of this case. And so I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint and I dont make any 
award against PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman