DRN-2107432
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Alan Steel (Asset Management) Limited, (AS), didnt take proper 
action in relation to a fund within her SIPP portfolio which she feels resulted in her suffering 
significant financial loss.
What happened
Mrs M transferred the management of her Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to AS in 
2016. At the time she was 59 years of age. She was working 3 days a week but was looking 
to retire soon. She wanted to take some income from her SIPP until she retired. 
Mrs Ms SIPP was based on a risk level of balanced which from the fact find completed in 
2016 I can see she established herself. In this document she indicated she had reasonable 
knowledge of investments and associated risks and had in fact been managing her SIPP 
herself, along with her husband prior to moving to AS. She confirmed she was willing to 
accept some potential losses and any loss in the SIPP wouldnt have impacted on her daily 
living.
The SIPP portfolio was made up of a number of different funds including the Woodford 
Equity Income Fund (WEIF) which at the time made up 12% of her portfolio.
Mrs M has complained that AS should have known the WEIF was experiencing problems 
around 2017 and so should have moved the proportion of her portfolio in this fund 
elsewhere. She feels AS had enough information at this time to make this decision but didnt 
act on it and as a result the value of her investment in this fund alone dropped. She feels AS 
should compensate her for this loss because she feels it failed to monitor her portfolio and 
the fund in line with their agreement.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. She was satisfied that AS had managed the portfolio in line with Mrs Ms objectives 
and agreed attitude to risk. She also felt that there was no reason for her to move out of the 
WEIF in early 2017 because it was still performing well and any comments about the 
workings of the fund by various commenters couldnt be relied upon at that specific time.
Mrs M didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that AS failed in its duties 
to her and is responsible for her loss.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint had been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator.
In order for me to uphold this complaint I need to be satisfied that AS failed to provide the 
service to Mrs M that it had agreed to at the outset of their relationship and that it didnt take 
the proper action in regard to the WEIF. 
However, before I explain my decision, its important to make clear that as this was a portfolio 
of investments the risk level applies to overall portfolio not just each individual fund within it. 
It therefore stands to reason that the various funds within that portfolio will have different 
levels of risk attached to them to balance the entire portfolio to the desired risk level.  But 
Mrs M has confirmed she isnt unhappy with AS management of the portfolio as a whole but  
just with its actions, or lack thereof, in relation to the WEIF.
I have looked at what AS obligations were when it entered in an agreement with Mrs M. In 
the recommendation letter from AS dated 22 April 2016 its states that AS process is to 
monitor the fund managers involved in its recommendations to ensure they perform in line 
with expectation and would provide proactive guidance if anything was to be amended. It 
also states AS would contact Mrs M if there were any legislation or investment issues that 
impacted her holdings, but the minimum she would get would be a yearly contact with an 
update on the portfolio and guidance if any changes were necessary or advised. Its also 
states regular reviews are a key part of AS services. So its clear AS had a duty to monitor 
the portfolio regularly and advise on changes. The question is, did this happen.
I can see that a review did take place in May 2017 which seems to be around a year after 
AS took over the management of the SIPP. Ive also seen from the correspondence around 
this time that Mrs M had identified a number of funds that she was unhappy with due to 
underperformance. She asked for AS to switch these funds out into four other fund she had 
identified. These funds did not include the WEIF and were all foreign market based  so 
contained risk levels more towards the higher end of the risk spectrum. 
However, it is at this time Mrs M is now saying she thinks AS should have also taken some 
action in relation to the WEIF fund. She has said that despite the fund actually performing at 
this point in time, a number of financial commentators had raised some questions about the 
WEIF which AS should have taken into account and acted accordingly, by moving her out of 
the fund.
While I can understand why Mrs M thinks this, I think her opinion is coming from the position 
of knowing now what happened to the fund.  But looking at what was happening to the fund 
in early 2017 I see no reason why AS should have switched her out of it. It was performing 
well so its not unreasonable AS didnt see a reason for move away from the fund. And while 
some questions may have been raised at the time these could really only be considered as 
being rumours and conjecture. There is nothing from that time that specifically confirmed the 
WEIF was in trouble. 
All a financial firm can reasonably be expected to do is monitor actual performance and use 
reliable bona fide information to inform its decision making. It would be wrong for AS to act 
on the basis of rumours with no actual evidence to support those what was being said. No 
adviser can tell the future. All it can do is use its experience to make the best prediction 
about any fund that it can.
Also, Mrs M didnt seem to have any problems with the fund at that time, evidenced by the 
fact WEIF wasnt one of those she asked AS to swap her out of.
I appreciate the makeup of the fund did start to change somewhat in late 2017 and so could 
be argued to have moved towards a higher risk level, but as I have already mentioned Mrs Ms SIPP was being managed as a whole so despite any changes that AS would have 
been aware of it obviously felt comfortable that this didnt affect the overall risk level of the 
SIPP which again in my view isnt unreasonable. Furthermore, while the fund did start to 
underperform at this time, I dont think this means AS should have acted and switched her 
out of the fund. It had underperformed in the past on a couple of occasions but had 
recovered quite strongly so its not unreasonable that AS felt recovery might happen again.
I am not aware of any confirmed information in the financial industry in 2017 about the WEIF, 
its makeup and potential problems. And in fact, it was in April 2018 that the fund was 
recategorised by the Investment Association to reflect its changes and the fact that the level 
of income it was generating was lower than originally desired. To me this indicates that this 
was really the only point in time that the fund officially moved away from its initial objectives. 
This was also after Mrs M ceased her relationship with AS and took over the management of 
the funds herself. And while it was then up to Mrs M to move out of this specific fund from 
the information I have seen I cant see that she did this and seems to have remained in the 
fund until it was suspended about a year later.
Overall, I can understand why Mrs M is disappointed with the loss she has suffered as 
having WEIF a part of her portfolio, but I am satisfied that AS met all of its obligation towards 
her. I also think AS decision to not swap out the WEIF was made on its experience of the 
fund, which isnt unreasonable, and it would have been remiss of AS to have reacted to any 
rumours and mutterings about the fund without legitimate information to back that up.  I do 
think hindsight has played a part in Mrs M complaint against AS and as I have already 
mentioned no adviser can tell the future and can only provide advice based on the 
knowledge and experience of the fund it has at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman