DRN-3801365
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has unfairly 
refused a chargeback claim.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr S purchased a rental car voucher for his upcoming trip abroad through 
an online car hire comparison site, who Ill refer to as D. When he arrived to collect the car 
from the rental company  who Ill refer to as G  he was told he needed an international 
driving licence, which he didnt have. He asked for a refund, but this wasnt forthcoming. He 
called D for assistance, but they offered no support.
As hed paid using his credit card, Mr S contacted Tesco Bank to see if it could help. He said 
the information on Ds website just said he needed to have a valid licence  which he has. 
He acknowledges that on the voucher it sets out Gs terms and conditions which say an 
international licence is required, but he hadnt noticed this and it wasnt provided until after 
purchase in any event.
Tesco Bank said it couldnt raise a chargeback because to do so, it would need to establish 
a breach of contract between Mr S and D. It wasnt persuaded there had been one as it was 
satisfied the requirement for an international licence had been made clear at the point of 
sale. 
Mr S was unhappy with this decision, so he raised a complaint. This was referred to Tesco 
Banks dispute team who requested information on several occasions, despite Mr S having 
already provided it. Tesco Bank apologised for its handling of the complaint and paid £50 
compensation. But it maintained its decision not to raise a chargeback. So Mr S brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Tesco Bank had acted 
correctly and fairly in the circumstances and he didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. And in October 2022 I 
issued the following provisional decision. 
My provisional decision
Chargeback
The chargeback process enables the card issuer  in this case, Tesco Bank  to settle 
disputes between a customer and a merchant, provided that the circumstances of the 
dispute fall within the scheme rules. 
The rules are set by the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on the card. And its for 
Tesco Bank to review the evidence and decide whether the claim falls within them. If it 
doesnt, or if Tesco Bank thinks the claim is unlikely to succeed, then it may decide not to 
raise it. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback, nor is it a guaranteed method of getting 
a refund. 
In this case, Tesco Bank has considered whether theres a claim which would fall within the 
chargeback rules and that would be likely to succeed. And it decided there wasnt. Ive 
thought about whether this decision is fair, based on the evidence Ive seen. And I think it is. 
Ill explain why. 
There is a chargeback code for goods or services not received. I dont think this code is 
applicable here, because Mr S did receive the voucher from D. I appreciate he wasnt able to 
hire the car from G, but the dispute is with D as thats who Mr S paid.
Another chargeback code for this claim could be goods or service were either not as 
described or defective where it would need to be established that the merchant did not 
honor the terms and conditions of the contract with the cardholder. The rules define this as 
including, but not limited to, 100 percent money back guarantee, written promises, or return 
policy. 
Ive looked at Ds website. And whilst I appreciate it may have changed since October 2021, 
I can see that where it displays the available cars to hire, it shows the symbol of the 
applicable rental company for each search result. Next to that symbol is a link to the terms 
and conditions, which pops up in a box. The link to Gs terms and conditions displays the 
following information:
International Driving Licence:
Please note that if you do not have an EU driving licence you will need to bring an 
international driving licence along with your original licence to rent the car.
This is the same information that is displayed on page two of the voucher.
Mr S says Ds website only said that a valid licence is required. But I havent seen anything 
to reflect this. Again, Im aware that the website couldve been updated since Mr S 
purchased this voucher but Ive been unable to ascertain what the website looked like back 
then, and I can only consider the complaint on the information I have available. Currently, 
under Ds FAQs, it says:
What are the driving licence requirements?
You will need to take your driving licence with you to pick up your hire car.
Please note that provisional licences and photocopies are not accepted.
If you do not have an EU licence you will also need an international driving licence to 
rent a car.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded the information made available by D is accurate. I 
dont know whether this is the same information shown to Mr S at the time of booking, but in 
the absence of any evidence to show me otherwise, Ill have to assume it was most likely the 
same.
Ive also thought about whether Mr S was unfairly refused any right to a refund given that he 
couldnt make use of the services hed paid for. Gs terms and conditions on Ds website 
says:
Cancellation policy:
To obtain a refund of a prepaid booking you must cancel it at least 48 hours before 
the start of your rental using the links contained in the voucher or through the "My 
Booking" section of our website. No refunds will be made if the booking is cancelled 
after the collection time stated on the rental voucher. No refund will be given if you do 
not collect the vehicle.On page three of the voucher, it says:
Cancellation policy:
This is a special offer and therefore non-refundable. It is not possible to cancel or 
modify this booking. No refund will be given if you do not collect the vehicle. 
Based on this, I dont think Mr S was entitled to a refund in these circumstances. And 
therefore, I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success for a successful 
chargeback.  
Section 75
As Mr S paid D using his credit card, he also has potential recourse under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). I cant see that Tesco Bank has considered this claim 
under section 75, therefore Ive looked at what shouldve happened if they had done so.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers who have paid for goods or services on a credit 
card to claim against their credit provider for any breach of contract or misrepresentation on 
the part of the supplier of the goods or services. Ive thought about whether Mr S claim 
meets the technical requirements, and Im satisfied it does. I say this because the amount in 
dispute is over £100 and not more than £30,000, and there is an established debtor-creditor-
supplier (DCS) relationship with D  although not with G.
So Ive thought about whether there is enough evidence to show D had breached the 
contract with Mr S or misrepresented the services it was offering. The Customer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) is relevant legislation here. 
Regarding the supply of services, it says:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including as a term of the 
contract anything that is said or written to the consumer, by or on behalf of the trader, 
about the trader or the service, if it is taken into account by the consumer when 
deciding to enter into the contract.
It goes on to say:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader 
must perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
For clarity, I havent considered whether Gs terms / driving licence requirements were fair or 
not  this is because D arent responsible for what the terms are and Mr S doesnt have an 
established DCS with G so section 75 doesnt apply.
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied the driving licence requirements were available on Ds 
website. But Im not persuaded they were made prominent enough. I say this because whilst 
there is a link to the terms and conditions next to the applicable rental companys symbol on 
the search results page, it is very small and almost unnoticeable. In addition, once youve 
clicked onto a search result, the page youre taken to doesnt display the terms or any link to 
them. You can then go on to purchase the voucher and at no time does the website prompt 
you to read anything more before taking payment.
So Im not persuaded D has performed their service with reasonable care and skill because 
vital information that Mr S wouldve taken into account when deciding to enter into the contract wasnt displayed prominently or brought to his attention prior to the sale. So I think it 
shouldve been established that a breach of contract occurred here. 
Whilst I do think theyre clear and prominent on the voucher itself, this wouldve only been 
provided to Mr S after purchase and as its non-refundable, Mr S wouldnt have been able to 
recover this money even if he had noticed it prior to his trip.
Conclusion
From the information Ive seen, I dont think Mr S has shown that he has a valid claim under 
the chargeback rules which would likely succeed. But I do think theres a claim under section 
75 which shouldve been successful. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S has accepted my provisional decision. Hes provided a screenshot of the part of Ds 
website which only refers to a full driving licence. 
Tesco Bank didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The screenshot provided by Mr S supports my view that a claim under section 75 should 
succeed. I say this because D hasnt exercised reasonable care and skill when performing 
its service as vital information hasnt been made clear or prominent enough for Mr S prior to 
the point of sale. 
As such, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC trading as Tesco Bank to:
Pay the claim under section 75 to the value of £542.74, 
Refund the foreign exchange transaction fee of £14.92. 
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the above two amounts, to acknowledge that 
Mr S has been without this money  or with a debt on his credit card  for a year. 
Pay compensation of £50 for Tesco Banks failure to consider this claim under 
section 75. This is on the basis that Mr S has been put to avoidable distress and 
inconvenience by Tesco Banks failure to explore all avenues to recover his money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman