DRN-4087265
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice he received from New Leaf Distribution Limited to transfer 
his pension to a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr L is represented in this complaint by his solicitors but for ease Ill refer to Mr L.
What happened
In 2017 Mr L took advice from New Leaf about a pension. He had already retired when he 
received a letter about a pension that he hadnt yet taken. This was a preserved pension 
from an employment hed had in the past, with a transfer value of £61,211.52. At retirement 
(at age 65) it would provide an income of £2,574.48 per year or tax-free cash of £3,128.07 
and a reduced income of £2,440.32.
New Leafs adviser completed a fact find document which included the following information:
Mr L was aged 65 and married. His wife was 66. They were both retired. Mr L was in 
good health.
Mr and Mrs L lived in sheltered accommodation. They received council tax benefit 
and housing benefit.
Mr and Mrs L had £518 in cash savings and no debts. They received state pension, 
Mr L had an annuity from another pension, and Mrs L received some benefits. Their 
joint monthly income was £1,374 and their expenditure about £540, which left around 
£800 a month disposable household income.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was agreed as cautious and this was described as follows: cautious 
investors tend to regard themselves as quite cautious people and are inclined to view risk 
negatively rather than as a source of opportunity. They typically have limited experience of 
investments and do not find financial matters easy to understand.
The documents recorded that Mr L had no knowledge of investments and had only 
previously invested in pension plans through employment.
New Leaf recommended that Mr L transfer his pension to a SIPP and invest with a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM) in a passive 3 portfolio, which invested mainly in fixed 
interest with a small amount of riskier assets. The advice was based on Mr and Mrs L having 
enough income to meet their needs; his wish to take as much tax-free cash as possible so 
they could buy a camper van and go travelling, and draw a small additional income of £100 
to cover the running costs of the van; and Mr Ls wish that his wife and children could benefit 
from the remaining funds in the event of his death.
Details of the charges for the pension showed that the adviser firm would take an initial 
(contingent) fee of £1,377.26 and 0.5% a year for on-going servicing. Fund charges were 
disclosed as a DFM charge of 0.24%, platform fee of 0.23% and an average fund charge of 
0.17%, giving total charges of 1.15%.
In 2021 Mr L complained to New Leaf that the advice to transfer was unsuitable. By this time 
he had withdrawn all the funds from the SIPP.
In its final response to the complaint New Leaf said the advice to transfer was suitable. It 
said Mr L couldnt meet his objectives with his old pension, whilst transferring to the SIPP 
allowed him to do so, and the investments were in line with his attitude to risk.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He agreed that the advice to 
transfer to a SIPP was suitable. But he didnt think Mr L should have been advised to invest 
the funds through the DFM. He asked New Leaf to compare the performance of the SIPP 
with a benchmark and, if that showed Mr L had suffered a loss, to compensate him for that. 
He also asked New Leaf to pay compensation of £200 for distress caused to Mr L.
New Leaf disagreed and made some further comments. The investigator considered these 
but didnt change his view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision saying I did not think the complaint should be upheld. I set out my 
reasons as follows:
When giving advice to Mr L, Id expect New Leaf to meet its obligations to act with 
reasonable skill, care and diligence. It had to obtain sufficient information from Mr L about 
his circumstances to be able to recommend something suitable. A customer should not be 
advised to switch to a pension that doesnt meet their attitude to risk, or one thats more 
expensive or where they will lose valuable benefits, without good reason. Ive taken this into 
account when considering the complaint.
Mr L was surprised to find he had a pension that he wasnt aware of. The plan provided for 
an annuity when Mr L reached the age of 65, together with a small amount of tax-free cash.
Mr and Mrs L had enough income to meet their needs. Mr L said he wanted to take a lump 
sum to buy a camper van, as he didnt have the savings or the ability to borrow to do this. As 
he hadnt been aware of this pension he saw it as an extra.
Mr L had no real knowledge of investments and was a cautious investor. But he did have 
some capacity for loss as there was enough income from other sources to meet Mr and 
Mrs Ls needs. He wanted to use this fund to buy a camper van and use the remainder as a 
safety net and for luxuries such as holidays. The existing pension only allowed him to take 
tax-free cash of around £3,000 and he had to take the rest through an annuity.
The pension did provide a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) of around £2,000 per 
year. Although that guarantee had some value, the pension didnt meet his needs, in that it 
wouldnt allow him to draw a larger tax-free cash sum and have the flexibility to draw further 
funds when he needed them.
On this basis I think the advice to transfer was suitable; Mr L had no pressing need for the 
annuity and a transfer allowed him to meet his objectives. He didnt know about or need the 
pension for his retirement income and this was essentially a windfall for him.
That still leaves the issue of how the funds were invested. Ive thought about this carefully 
and in my view, the advice to invest was also suitable. I understand the comments about the 
benchmark being used. But overall, this was in line with Mr Ls attitude to risk  the chosen 
investment was mostly in cash and conventional gilts, which are low risk.
It would have been possible to invest without using a DFM, and using a DFM can lead to 
higher charges. But from the information in the schedule of charges, the total charges 
amounted to 1.15% and in 2020 had reduced to 1.12% (the DFM charge at that point being 
0.21%) although it then seems to have increased a little. And while a DFM was used, this 
wasnt a bespoke or high-risk way of investing. A benchmark was used, which would provide 
an indication of the returns that could be expected for the stated risk appetite.The investigator commented that the benchmark was said to be for Trustees, Private Client 
Lawyers, Accountants and Wealth Advisers dealing with high-net-worth individuals and Mr L 
was none of these. However, looking at the investments in the round, to my mind it was in 
line with the risk profile  it was intended for investors who wish to protect their capital, if 
possible, but increase the chances of better long term returns. I think this would have been 
a reasonable way of maintaining the funds, to allow Mr L to make modest monthly 
withdrawals, while allowing for a small amount of growth. It would have allowed Mr L to meet 
his stated intention of using the funds to buy a camper van and then draw £100 per month to 
cover running costs. The sustainability report indicated it would take a long time for Mr L to 
deplete the funds.
Whats actually happened is that in addition to monthly withdrawals, Mr L has made a 
number of larger withdrawals, to the extent that the funds have been used up entirely. While 
I appreciate Mr L may be upset that his funds have been depleted, that is due to the 
additional large withdrawals he has made, rather than as a result of unsuitable advice. And I 
understand he had further advice from a different IFA in relation to those withdrawals, so I 
wouldnt hold New Leaf responsible for those in any event.
Taking all of these circumstances into account I dont intend to uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further comments in response to the provisional decision. 
As I have received no further evidence I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
So it remains my view that the complaint should not be upheld, for the reasons set out 
above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman