DRN-3393438
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) increased his 
direct debit payment to it without notice.
What happened
Mr C says he had a direct debit set up to pay AESEL about £500 a month for his credit card 
account. He says in June 2021 the payment was increased to about £2,600 and a similar 
amount in July 2021. Mr C says the minimum amounts requested must have been incorrect 
and says problems continued until October 2021. He would like a plan put in place to repay 
the amount he owes and suitable compensation for the stress and inconvenience he was 
caused.
AESEL upheld the complaint in part and says the problem was caused by a reversed 
payment. It says it has paid £100 compensation and has removed any adverse information 
from Mr Cs credit file. It also says Mr C has cancelled the account, but it correctly charged 
interest.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator initially upheld it. The investigator 
thought the problem went on for six months without AESEL adequately explaining why and 
that it should pay a further £250 compensation. The investigator thought interest should 
have been frozen whilst the problem went on which should be refunded. And that AESEL 
should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr C.
AESEL agreed with that recommendation but says the interest was correctly charged and Mr 
C didnt repay the balance in full before the issues arose.
The investigator re-considered his view and thought it unfair the interest be refunded.
Mr C doesnt accept that the compensation is appropriate for what took place and says he 
asked for the account to be put on hold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require AESEL to refund the 
interest for the reasons I will explain.
I accept that Mr C should have been told far sooner what was happening with his account 
and why. I accept Mr C would have been surprised to have noticed the direct debit payment 
had increased so significantly and that the issue continued. I would have expected AESEL in 
those circumstances to have explained the implications of the payment reversal and 
explained for how long Mr Cs minimum payment would be affected. I can see that the 
problems continued until October 2021. So, I have no doubt Mr C suffered inconvenience 
and experienced frustration when AESEL called it about the payments causing him to have 
to explain what had happened.
The only real issues for me to decide is the level of compensation. Whilst I appreciate Mr C 
says he suffered a financial loss I cant see any evidence that he did. Im satisfied that Mr 
Cs account balance was correctly calculated which included interest and that he still owed 
that amount regardless of how much was taken by direct debit. I can see that AESEL has 
refunded any late payment fees.
Im satisfied that AESELs has fairly agreed to pay a total of £350 compensation which I think 
is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the level of its mistake, the length of time this issue 
went on for and the impact on Mr C. I also think such an award is in line with the type of 
awards we would make for this type of issue. I can also see that Mr C initially agreed with 
the investigators view about that compensation amount.
The key issue is the interest. I appreciate Mr C says it should be refunded but Im satisfied 
that having looked at Mr Cs credit card account statements that interest was usually 
charged as the full account balance wasnt repaid in full each month. I also think that interest 
was correctly charged in line with agreed account terms and conditions and that the charging 
of interest is a completely separate issue to the direct debit issue.
Im satisfied that Mr Cs account statements told him how much the account balance was 
and that it was his choice if the full amount was repaid. I find this was a dispute about the 
adjustment to the direct debit amount and that there is nothing to suggest Mr C intended to 
repay the full account balance each month. But he could have if he wished. I appreciate Mr 
C says the account should have been put on hold whilst these issues were looked at but I 
disagree and find that AESEL was entitled to charge interest. It follows that I cant fairly order 
AESEL to refund the interest in these circumstances.
Overall, I intend to order AESEL to pay a further £250 compensation and order it to agree a 
suitable repayment plan with Mr C to repay the debt. I can see that AESEL has agreed to do 
both but of course it is up to Mr C to decide if he wishes to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay Mr C a further £250 compensation and agree a suitable 
repayment plan with him for the outstanding debt.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman