DRN-3162857
The complaint
Mr P complains that Western Circle Ltd acted irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Western Circle provided to Mr P as follows. 
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 13/02/2019 29/05/2019 4 £500 £183.30
2 29/05/2019 24/08/2019 4 £500 £203.91
3 4/09/2019 7/09/2019 4 £500 £197.12
4 11/09/2019 18/11/2019 4 £400 £140.13
5 22/11/2019 28/01/2020 3 £400 £192.43
6 13/02/2020 29/05/2020 4 £600 £219.98
Mr P mainly said that Western Circle didnt properly assess affordability before lending to 
him.
When he complained to Western Circle, it didnt uphold the complaint. Western Circle said it 
used robust systems and procedures for assessing an applicants creditworthiness and 
ability to repay. It said it worked out that all the loans were affordable for Mr P  which was 
borne out by the fact that they were all repaid, in full, on or before the due date. Western 
Circle did however offer a payment of £100 as a gesture of goodwill in order to settle the 
complaint quickly.
Mr P didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. She thought that she hadnt seen enough to 
say it was unfair for Western Circle to provide loans 1 - 3 to Mr P but that it shouldnt have 
lent from loan 4 onwards and she set out in some detail what Western Circle should do to 
put things right for Mr P. 
Western Circle disagreed with our adjudicator. It mainly said that:
Mr P had a higher-than-average income
the loan amounts didnt much change which demonstrates that Mr P was not caught 
in a harmful increasing debt spiral
Loans 4 and 5 were for a lower amount than the previous three loans
Western Circle looked at Mr Ps bank statement before providing loan 6, and this 
confirmed his salary and also he wasnt overdrawn at any stage during the month
Mr P had no rejected payments during the month indicating that he was not 
struggling financially to meet his bills and he was left in credit at the end of the month 
after his monthly outgoings had been met
there were no signs of gambling and the bank statement demonstrated that Mr P was 
handling his finances in a responsible and sustainable manner
the amount Mr P was paying to creditors went down in-between loan 1 and his final 
loan
Mr P didnt at any stage alert Western Circle to any financial difficulties.  
Western Circle asked for a review. So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Having done so, 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain in more detail. 
Western Circle needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Western Circle should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a borrower has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
borrower could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the borrower should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to repay a loan sustainably if this is unlikely without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think she had enough evidence to say that loans 1, 2 and 3 shouldnt 
have been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including what Mr P said about 
his income and expenses when he took out these loans and the credit checks Western 
Circle obtained. 
On balance, I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt enough overall to say Western Circle 
shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr P. He had some potential signs of money 
problems showing in his credit history, but not enough adverse information in my view to 
have prompted a responsible lender to do more in-depth checks or decline these loan 
applications. The loan amounts were relatively low compared to Mr Ps salary (which 
Western Circle had independently checked) and the loan terms were quite short. I think 
Western Circle was entitled to the view that what it saw about Mr Ps finances wasnt likely to 
change very much over the next four months. And at this early stage in the lending 
relationship I think the checks were enough for Western Circle to agree to lend these loans. 
As far as I can see, Mr P hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loans 1 - 3. So I dont think I need to say more about these 
loans.
I think that by loan 4, Western Circle should have realised that Mr P wasnt managing to 
repay his borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Western Circle could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr P had struggled 
to repay previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 around the same time as he repaid 
loan 1, and he took out loan 3 just over a week after he paid loan 2 
he took out loan 4 just four days after he paid loan 3. This was the third time in a row 
that hed repaid a loan then quickly borrowed again  and the amounts he was 
borrowing werent decreasing  he was still borrowing the same amount as the first 
loan he had taken out around 7 months earlier. 
all this suggests to me that Mr P wasnt using these loans to provide a short term fix 
or to cover a one-off emergency or a temporary cash flow problem - it looks likely that 
Mr P had to borrow again each time because he was facing money problems after 
repaying the previous loan. And whilst its fair to say the loan amounts werent 
increasing, it should also have been clear that his financial situation overall wasnt 
getting better. As our adjudicator mentioned, Western Circle was aware that Mr P 
was also paying other high cost lending at the same time  and I think his apparent 
reliance on credit cards should also have been of concern.   
I think all this information pointed to a significant risk that Mr P would be unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments for loan 4. And so Western Circle should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided loan 4  or any further loans.  
I have also looked at the overall pattern of Western Circles lending history with Mr P, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Western Circle should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Western Circle should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
had been reached by loan 6. I say this because:
by now, Western Circle ought to have realised Mr P was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr P had taken out loan 6 barely two weeks after paying loan 5  
and borrowed half as much again as the loan hed repaid making this the largest loan 
he had taken out
hed now been borrowing from Western Circle for a year  with no significant gaps 
between loans. So, when Mr P asked for loan 6, I think Western Circle ought to have 
known that he wasnt likely borrowing as a short term strategy but to meet an 
ongoing need 
Mr Ps indebtedness appeared to be increasing unsustainably  and that seems to 
me to be borne out by what Western Circle also saw on its credit checks and the 
bank statement it obtained 
it was apparent that Mr P was continuing to rely on his credit cards for cash 
advances, which is a particularly expensive way to obtain spending money. He was 
at or over the credit limit on credit cards. He was repaying loans from a number of 
other high cost lenders. 
 
I think Western Circle shouldve realised that irrespective of his high salary, the 
overall pattern of lending suggested that Mr P was asking to borrow because his 
financial circumstances hadnt improved and he was now reliant on this sort of 
borrowing. 
Our adjudicator thought that it was clear by loan 6 that borrowing and repaying these loans 
was now unsustainable and I agree. 
So I think that Mr P lost out when Western Circle provided loan 6 because:
the loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
his overall pattern of lending was now likely to have negative implications on Mr Ps 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
In coming to my decision Ive carefully considered Western Circles response to our 
adjudicators view  but in the circumstances I've described and for the reasons I've 
explained, this doesnt affect my decision. 
Repaying his loans doesnt mean that Mr P was able to do so in a way that was sustainably 
affordable for him. 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4  6. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending.But he has had to pay interest on loans that shouldnt have been provided to him  so 
thats unfair. 
In deciding what redress Western Circle should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr P, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible. 
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Western Circles liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Western Circle should do the following:
Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4  6 not including anything it has already refunded.
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr P which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr P originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Pay Mr P the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
Remove any adverse entries Western Circle has recorded on Mr Ps credit file for 
loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing by loan 6 means any 
information recorded about this loan is adverse, so any record of this loan should be 
removed entirely from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle to take off tax from this interest. Western 
Circle must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint and Western Circle Ltd should 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman