DRN-3211657
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with his claim for legal 
expenses under his home insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents. 
Mrs R is assisting Mr R in bringing his complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr R has legal expenses insurance as part of his home 
insurance policy. He had a dispute with his employer and claimed detriment as a result 
of making protected disclosures.  
In May 2018, Mr R registered a claim with IPA. IPA subsequently instructed its panel 
solicitors to assess Mr Rs claim. The panel solicitors said that Mr Rs claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. In July 2018, IPA declined Mr Rs claim against the 
policy on that basis. IPA told Mr R that he could submit any further information or 
documentation not already provided, which would be considered by the panel solicitors 
or he could submit an assessment by a solicitor of his choice. 
In September 2018, Mr R resigned and claimed constructive dismissal on the grounds of 
making protected disclosures.  
In December 2018, Mr R contacted IPA again with an update of events and further 
documentation. He told it that, shortly before hed resigned and claimed constructive 
dismissal, his employer had offered £80,000 in settlement of his claim.
IPAs panel solicitors reviewed the additional information and in January 2019, IPA told 
Mr R that its panel solicitors hadnt changed its view about the prospects of success of 
his claim. That was because it was concerned in relation to time bar and remained 
unconvinced that Mr R had suffered detriment, as defined by the relevant legislation. 
IPAs panel solicitors said that an offer of £80,000 didnt alter its view, as an employer 
may make an offer for commercial considerations even when it is confident of resisting a 
claim.    
In response to IPA maintaining its position about Mr Rs claim, he told it that his           
ex-employer had withdrawn its argument about time bar and in judicial mediation 
increased its offer to £400,000. In February 2019, Mr R provided IPA with his own 
solicitors opinion of his case which said that the prospects of success of Mr Rs claim 
were higher than 50% and that the offer from Mr Rs ex-employer had increased to 
£425,000.   
As there was a conflict between the two solicitors opinions, IPA sought counsels advice. 
In April 2019, counsel said that Mr Rs claim had good prospects of success in the region 
of 60-65%. IPA accepted Mr Rs claim for legal expenses funding and backdated cover 
to 13 December 2018, the date Mr R provided his response to IPAs decision to decline 
his claim. 
 
I understand that Mr Rs claim was settled for £425,000.
Mr R says, in summary, that IPA first declined his claim for legal expenses cover then 
accepted the claim but refused to backdate cover to the date of his initial claim. He says 
that IPA sought to avoid covering his claim by intentionally delaying matters and 
subsequently only offered cover from December 2018 onwards. 
Mr R says that IPA should have accepted his claim at the outset and if it had done so, he 
would have proceeded to a full hearing and may have been awarded a significantly 
higher sum. Mr R says that IPA acted unfairly and unreasonably in not giving him a time 
limit in which to challenge its initial assessment. He thinks that IPA should backdate his 
cover to the date of his initial claim.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr Rs claim at the outset, as it relied on legally qualified 
experts in coming to that view. The investigator said that IPA had acted fairly in 
backdating cover to December 2018 - when it received further information - rather than 
the date of the initial claim. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. They said, in summary:
The initial opinion of IPAs panel solicitors was flawed and superficial such that it 
can only have been drafted as a cynical means of declining cover.
The prospects of the case didnt change over time: the evidence remained the 
same throughout. 
IPA changed its position when its legal argument was shown to be 
unsupportable, as evidenced by settlement discussions. 
If IPA had assessed the case properly, Mr R would have had cover from the 
outset.
Mr R asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
What is covered
[]
5. Employment disputes
a) A dispute with your employer regarding your contract of employment or a breach of your 
legal rights under employment laws.
b) Checking and advising on the terms of a settlement agreement.
[]
What is not covered[]
Employment Disputes  Any claim 
[]
b) involving disciplinary investigatory or grievance procedures.
The cover under this section does not apply to the following:
[]
Costs and expenses incurred prior to our written acceptance of a claim.
Prospects of success
In respect of all claims it is always more likely than not that you will:
a) Recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to
[]
Prospects of success will be assessed by us or an appointed representative on our behalf.
Has IPA treated Mr R unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive considerable sympathy for Mr R and dont doubt that this whole matter was incredibly 
worrying and stressful. But Im not upholding the complaint because I dont think that IPA 
acted unfairly in declining his claim against his policy initially or in subsequently backdating 
his claim to December 2018, rather than to the date of his initial claim. I say that because:
As Ive set out above, the policy provides that a claim must have reasonable 
prospects of success. We consider that to mean a 51% or greater chance of 
recovery. Thats a very common provision in legal expenses insurance. We dont 
consider this sort of requirement inherently unfair. An insurer cant reasonably be 
expected to fund cases where its more likely than not that the case will fail.  
When an insurer has declined a claim in a case like this, it isnt for us to look at the 
merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted fairly 
and reasonably in coming to its decision. Insurers are able to rely on the legal advice 
and opinions provided by suitably qualified lawyers, provided that the advice or 
opinions are not obviously wholly incorrect when viewed from the perspective of a lay 
person.
IPAs panel solicitors concluded that Mr Rs claim against his employer didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. It said that was because it wasnt certain that      
Mr Rs allegations were qualifying protected disclosures under the relevant legislation 
and, even if it was wrong about that, it didnt think that Mr R had shown detriment 
under that legislation. 
I think that IPAs panel solicitors reasons for its view about the prospects of success 
could have been fuller: it didnt say why Mr Rs allegations might not be qualifying 
protected disclosures. But it did give more detail about why it didnt think that Mr R 
had shown the necessary detriment. On balance, I think that IPA was entitled to rely 
on its panel solicitors advice in coming to its initial view in July 2018 about Mr Rs 
claim.   
In essence, Mr R criticises the quality of the advice and opinion from IPAs panel 
solicitors. This service has no jurisdiction over solicitors. We dont hold insurers 
responsible for the actions of panel solicitors. IPA appoints panel solicitors as 
independent legal experts, with their own regulator and complaints bodies. I see that the investigator has explained what steps Mr R needs to take if he wishes to pursue 
a complaint about the panel solicitors. 
In any event, as Ive set out above, theres an exclusion in the policy in relation to 
employment claims involving disciplinary investigatory or grievance procedures. I 
understand that Mr R was in what his own solicitor described as  a lengthy 
whistleblowing investigation and appeal against the outcome of that investigation 
until his resignation in September 2018. So, IPA could have relied on that exclusion 
in declining Mr Rs initial claim at that stage. 
Based on what Ive seen, I cant fairly conclude that IPA sought to delay matters at 
the outset. I think that it asked Mr R to provide relevant information so that it could 
assess his claim. 
Mr R says that IPA acted unfairly and unreasonably in not giving him a time limit in 
which to challenge its initial assessment. Ive looked at the information IPA gave to 
Mr R when it declined his claim in July 2018. It said that if Mr R disagreed he could 
submit any further information or documentation not previously provided for review or 
he could provide a legal assessment from his own solicitor. There wasnt a time limit 
for Mr R to provide the additional information or his own solicitors assessment, so I 
dont think that IPA was at fault for failing to mention one.   
I note what Mr R says about the reasons for not reverting to IPA before December 
2018: he says that he was dealing with a very stressful and complex case and didnt 
have the energy or capacity to deal with IPA. But I dont think that IPA was 
responsible for the delay in Mr R providing further information and challenging IPAs 
initial decision. And we wouldnt generally expect an insurer to pay for costs incurred 
before it agrees to accept the claim. 
When Mr R provided his own solicitors assessment of his claim, IPA sought the 
opinion of counsel. On receiving counsels opinion in April 2019 - which said that      
Mr Rs claim had good prospects of success - IPA accepted the claim and backdated 
cover to December 2018, that is, the date when Mr R challenged its decision. I think 
it acted fairly and reasonably in backdating cover to that date. 
Mr Rs ex-employer settled the matter after judicial mediation. The fact that Mr R 
achieved a successful outcome doesnt, in itself, show that IPA was wrong to decline 
Mr Rs claim initially or that the advice it relied on was wrong. As Ive said above, I 
think that IPAs panel solicitors initial assessment of the prospects of success was, 
on balance, one that IPA was entitled to rely on. 
Prospects of success can change throughout a claim. I note that Mr R says that the 
prospects of success were the same throughout his case but when Mr R approached 
IPA again in December 2018, events had moved on considerably: the employers 
investigatory processes had concluded, Mr R had resigned and the time bar issue 
was no longer live. So, Mr R had new information and documentation for IPA to 
consider. The fact that IPA changed its position in the light of new information doesnt 
mean that it shouldnt have made its initial decision to decline the claim.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.  
Louise Povey
Ombudsman