DRN-4008713
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs P complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled their claim on their 
home insurance policy following an escape of water. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs P had home insurance that was underwritten by AXA. In October 2020 they 
made a claim after returning home from work to find the property flooded. The claim was 
accepted and AXA appointed contractors to dry out the property and carry out the repairs. 
The property was uninhabitable due to the extent of the damage, and Mr S, Mrs P and their 
young child stayed in an annexe at a friends property while they were unable to live at their 
home. AXA paid disturbance allowance for the period the property was uninhabitable. 
The repairs took longer to complete than was originally expected and by the end of 2021 Mr 
S and Mrs P had still not returned to the property. They made two complaints in December 
2021 and April 2022. AXA responded and accepted it had caused some unnecessary 
delays. It offered a total of £500 compensation across the two complaints to make up for 
these.
However Mr S and Mrs P didnt think this was enough. They said their health and 
relationship had been impacted by the additional distress AXA had caused due to its poor 
claim management. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought AXA should pay an 
additional £200 compensation to make up for the unnecessary delays it had caused and the 
impact these had had on Mr S and his family. 
AXA didnt respond to our investigators outcome. As agreement hasnt been reached, the 
matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA hasnt responded to this services requests for additional information or to our 
investigators outcome, despite ample opportunity to do so. However in the interest of not 
delaying the resolution of this complaint further for either side, I have based my decision on 
the information available.
The escape of water at Mr S and Mrs Ps property caused substantial damage to a number 
of rooms. So the required remedial work and repairs would always have been lengthy and 
involve a number of contractors. 
Further to this there were added complications as the claim went on, such as the discovery 
of asbestos in some areas of the property and various required additional work such as a 
repair to the boiler and the clean of the consumer unit. These issues added additional time 
onto the claim and no doubt made it more distressing for Mr S and Mrs P. However when 
considering a complaint, I can only hold the business in question responsible for any 
additional delays above the necessary time to resolve the claim and the impact these have 
had. So I cant hold AXA responsible for the unfortunate impact of the claim itself. 
However, Ive looked through the claim notes, timeline and emails that have been provided 
and I think AXA have caused some unnecessary delays that meant the claim went on for 
longer than it should. It took a long time to take action when issues were raised by Mr S, for 
example when he reported damaged furniture and when mould was found on the consumer 
unit that needed to be cleaned. And while the boiler breaking wasnt entirely within AXAs 
control, this was found to be due to the fact it had been inactive. This isnt uncommon when 
a boiler is switched off for some time, so it may have been prudent for AXAs contractors to 
have taken this into consideration when working on the claim and taken action to try and 
prevent it. 
Because of AXAs slow action on the claim, Ive seen that Mr S has had to be in regular 
contact with it, and has had to chase responses in order for the claim to be moved forward. 
These delays and the additional contact would have been distressing and inconvenient for 
Mr S, particularly given he was already in a distressing situation. As he had to live out of his 
family home for over a year with a young family, and during the covid-19 pandemic. Hes 
also described the impact the situation has had on his relationship and his mental health. So 
any further delays would have caused a greater impact. 
Due to this I agree with our investigator that AXA has caused some additional distress on top 
of the usual distress of an escape of water claim. And it should pay an additional £200 to 
make up for this  to bring the total compensation offered across the two complaints to £700. 
As this is in line with our approach to similar complaints of this nature.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ps complaint and direct AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to pay them an additional £200 compensation to bring the total to £700 across their 
two complaints. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman