DRN-4041476
The complaint
Ms W complains that Flying Colours Advice Limited (Flying Colours) mismanaged the 
investment of her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) between July 2021 and                     
February 2022 which caused her to suffer a substantial financial loss of more than £50,000. 
She says that this led to her having to reduce the level of income she could withdraw from 
her SIPP, negatively affecting her lifestyle and mental health. 
To put things right, Ms W wants Flying Colours to compensate her for the financial loss 
suffered and associated distress and inconvenience caused by this.
What happened
Scope of this final decision
Ms Ws complaint about Flying Colours is broadly about two issues: the fund performance of 
her SIPP between July 2021 and February 2022 while it was invested in the Baillie Gifford 
Managed fund; and the delay between February 2022 and May 2022 to switch the value of 
her SIPP from the Baillie Gifford Managed fund to the Flying Colours Passive Portfolio 
Service.
Under this final decision, Ive only considered the element of Ms Ws complaint about fund 
performance. Ive set out my findings and decision on this below. I havent considered the 
element of Ms Ws complaint about the delayed fund switch since Flying Colours 
acknowledged it was responsible for an undue delay and paid her compensation in respect 
of this.
This complaint
Ms W had an existing SIPP provided by Standard Life from which she had been taking 
income withdrawals since 2016. She had received advice in connection with her SIPP from a 
local financial advisory business. Ms W became a client of Flying Colours after it acquired 
the financial advisory business whom she had previously dealt with. 
In May 2021, an adviser from Flying Colours carried out an annual review of Ms Ws pension 
and investment arrangements. Following this, on 1 July 2021, the adviser sent a written 
report to Ms W setting out her recommendations. At that time, Ms Ws circumstances were 
recorded as follows:
She was aged 64, in good health and divorced. She had a daughter aged 37 who 
was financially independent;
She had a part-time job at a local estate agency but hadnt worked there for over a 
year and so considered herself to be effectively retired;
Her residential home was valued at £450,000. Her investable assets comprised her 
Standard Life SIPP (the subject of this complaint) valued at about £222,000, cash 
savings of about £61,000, a stocks and shares ISA valued at about £54,000, 
premium bonds valued at £50,000, and a fixed term savings bond valued at £20,000;
She didnt have any debts or liabilities;
She was drawing gross annual income of £14,000 from her SIPP and was in receipt 
of gross defined benefit (DB) pension income of £1,600 per year (the adviser 
incorrectly recorded this as monthly income). It was noted she considered the level of 
pension income she was receiving was sufficient for her needs at that time; 
Her attitude to risk was determined to be 6 on a scale of 1 to 10 where 1 was lowest 
risk and 10 was highest risk; and
Her SIPP was invested in the Baillie Gifford Managed fund. Her SIPP-related 
objectives were to continue drawing gross annual income of £14,000, to remain 
invested in line with her attitude to risk of 6  Balanced Growth with the aim of 
achieving capital growth to replenish the income being withdrawn, continue having 
the ability to vary the level of income and to review her SIPP on an annual basis.
In addition to recommendations regarding Ms Ws other investments, the adviser 
recommended that she retain her SIPP and continue investment in the Baillie Gifford 
Managed fund to align with her attitude to risk. However, the adviser expressed concern that 
the gross annual income of £14,000 Ms W was withdrawing from her SIPP wasnt 
sustainable and would likely run out during her 70s. The adviser recommended that she 
reduce or stop withdrawals from her SIPP and instead utilise her non-pension investments to 
meet her income need. The advisers aim was to increase the sustainability of income that 
could be drawn from the SIPP over the longer term, reduce the level of income tax paid on 
her pension withdrawals and to retain assets in the SIPP which would be exempt from 
inheritance tax unlike her non-pension investments.
The adviser concluded the annual review report by stating, I trust that this Report is a true 
and accurate record of our discussions. If you have any queries concerning the content of 
this report, or should you feel the recommendations are in any way an inaccurate reflection
of your circumstances and future objectives, please contact me immediately. Our next 
review is scheduled for May 2022, however, should you have any questions or concerns in 
the meantime, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Following issuance of that annual review report on 1 July 2021, Ms W contacted the adviser 
to tell her about the error regarding the DB pension income. Ms W clarified that she received 
income of £1,600 per year and not £1,600 per month, as recorded by the adviser. The 
adviser recognised that this meant Ms W was heavily reliant on the gross annual income of 
£14,000 she was withdrawing from her SIPP given she had minimal other sources of 
income. Using the correct information, the adviser redid her cashflow analysis and provided 
details of this to Ms W in a report on 21 July 2021. The adviser concluded that report by 
repeating her previous concern that the gross annual income of £14,000 Ms W was 
withdrawing from her SIPP wasnt sustainable. The adviser stated, 
As a consequence of my initial analysis, we may need to reassess your needs and 
objectives. Potentially, we could discuss a reassessment of the level of income that is 
being drawn from your Standard Life pension and whether this can be reduced. You 
have confirmed that currently, your income exceeds your expenditure and therefore, 
reducing the withdrawals to what you need will help to maintain the funds you have 
accrued for a longer period.In addition, it may be worth considering whether we review the level of investment 
risk you are taking with the Standard Life pension. As this is now providing a high 
proportion of your income need, I believe that taking less risk with these funds should 
be considered. Whilst this reduces the growth prospects, it also reduces the risk of 
funds being depleted more quickly in the event of a market downturn.
Following receipt of both reports in July 2021, Ms W didnt make any changes to her SIPP. 
And so it remained invested in the Baillie Gifford Managed fund while she continued to 
withdraw income from the SIPP to support her standard of living.
In February 2022, the adviser contacted Ms W to tell her that her SIPP had unexpectedly 
fallen in value because of a reduction of the unit price in the Baillie Gifford Managed fund. 
This was due to global economic uncertainty in the preceding several months. The adviser 
explained it was unclear how further the unit price would fall and when it would return to a 
positive. Given that Ms W was relying on her SIPP to provide income, the adviser 
recommended that she switch investment fund. Following this, Ms W switched the value of 
her SIPP to the Flying Colours Passive Portfolio Service in May 2022 after a delay.
Ms W complained to Flying Colours about the fund performance and delayed fund switch. 
She thought that its adviser shouldve kept her up to date about how her SIPP was 
performing and acted sooner to tell her about the poor performance of the Baillie Gifford 
Managed fund. 
Flying Colours rejected the element of Ms Ws complaint regarding fund performance. This 
was because it was satisfied that it had correctly identified her attitude to risk as 6  
Balanced Growth and continued investment in the Baillie Gifford Managed fund aligned with 
this. It stated that it wasnt responsible for how that fund was managed or its performance. It 
said that it carried out a quarterly review of all the multi-asset funds it advises clients to 
invest in  and it was following its Q4 2021 review of the Baillie Gifford Managed fund that it 
advised her in February 2022 to switch to its Passive Portfolio Service. So it was satisfied 
that it had acted in a timely manner and in her best interests. It confirmed to Ms W that the 
nature of her relationship with Flying Colours didnt require it to monitor her SIPP daily or 
make discretionary changes and that it had never led her to believe that this was the case. 
However, it upheld the element of her complaint regarding the delayed fund switch from the 
Baillie Gifford Managed to its Passive Portfolio Service and paid compensation in connection 
with this.
Ms W didnt accept Flying Colours response to her complaint and so referred the matter to 
this service. Our investigator didnt think that Flying Colours had made an error or had 
treated Ms W unfairly. She explained that performance cannot be guaranteed and so a 
reduction in the value of an investment isnt sufficient reason to uphold a complaint. She 
concluded that Ms Ws attitude to risk had been accurately determined to show that she was 
willing and able to tolerate a balanced or medium level of risk with her SIPP and that 
investment in the Baillie Gifford Managed fund broadly aligned with this. So there wasnt any 
evidence of unsuitability. She said that Flying Colours role as Ms Ws adviser didnt extend 
to it actively monitoring the performance of her SIPP daily and making or suggesting 
changes more frequently than it did in February 2022. Therefore, she didnt recommend that 
this complaint be upheld.
 
Ms W didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided additional comments. Our 
investigator considered those comments but wasnt persuaded to change her view. Since 
agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, to 
review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Ms W and Flying Colours. So if I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all 
the evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
for these reasons:
Ms W has complained about the investment performance of the Baillie Gifford 
Managed fund between July 2021 and February 2022 which experienced a 
significant fall in value during that period. Ms W told our investigator that while she 
recognised there had been a market downturn during that period, she considered the 
level of reduction in the value of the Baillie Gifford Managed fund to be an outlier in 
comparison to similar funds and an indication that something had gone wrong. 
Notwithstanding this, she said that she had always had a more cautious attitude to 
risk regarding her SIPP.
This service doesnt normally uphold complaints that are purely about investment 
performance. This is because we wouldnt expect a business to provide any 
guarantees of fund performance, especially in connection with third party funds, as is 
the case here. Given the longer-term nature of investments which are invested in 
assets such as equities and bonds, its reasonable to expect that the value of funds 
would fluctuate at various times during the investment period. Its also the case that 
with hindsight its easy to say things shouldve been done differently. I havent seen 
any evidence that Flying Colours told or misled Ms W to believe that the performance 
of the Baillie Gifford Managed fund was guaranteed or that she wouldnt suffer any 
investment loss. Ultimately, Flying Colours isnt responsible for the performance of 
the Baillie Gifford Managed fund  and so Im unable to uphold Ms Ws complaint on 
this point.
However, taking into account her comments, I think Ms Ws complaint is more about 
the suitability of investing the value of her SIPP in the Baillie Gifford Managed fund in 
the context of her financial situation, objectives, and risk profile  so Ive considered 
the suitability of the fund on this basis.
The objective of the Baillie Gifford Managed fund is to achieve capital growth over 
rolling five-year periods. The fund is actively managed and invested in different asset 
classes including equities, bonds, and cash. The fund manager buys and sells assets 
in the fund as and when they deem appropriate, so the exposure to different asset 
classes changes over time. Having reviewed the composition of the fund during the 
relevant period, I think its fair to say that it can be categorised as suitable for a 
balanced or medium risk investor who is aiming to achieve capital growth over the 
longer term.
The issue I need to decide is whether it was suitable for Ms Ws SIPP to remain 
invested in that fund after the adviser carried out the annual review in May 2021 and 
recommended that she remain invested in it. When assessing suitability, theres 
several factors that I take into account. These include the consumers investment 
knowledge and experience, financial situation, investment objective(s), attitude to 
risk, capacity for risk and tax situation.
In connection with her SIPP, Flying Colours categorised Ms W as having an attitude to risk of 6 on a scale of 1 to 10 where 1 was lowest risk and 10 was highest risk. 
This broadly aligns with a balanced or medium risk investor. Ms W wasnt an 
investment novice. It appears that in the preceding years before she became a client 
of Flying Colours, she had accumulated investable assets of over £400,000 invested 
across a range of asset classes. So I think its reasonable to conclude that she 
understood the relationship between risk and reward. Given Ms Ws overall financial 
situation, likely investment knowledge and experience, and her objectives for the 
SIPP, I think its fair to say that she was correctly categorised as a balanced or 
medium risk investor. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that she 
wanted to adopt a cautious approach to investment with her SIPP.
So, overall, I dont think it was unsuitable for Flying Colours to recommend that Ms W 
continue to invest the value of her SIPP in the Baillie Gifford Managed fund as part of 
the annual review in 2021 given that it aligned with her recorded attitude to risk and 
her wider capacity for loss  and that she needed to provide the potential for capital 
growth to replenish her income withdrawals. That the fund subsequently experienced 
a significant reduction in value in late 2021 and into early 2022 doesnt transform 
Flying Colours recommendation into an unsuitable one. 
Its clear that at the time of the annual review in 2021, Ms W was heavily reliant on 
the gross annual income withdrawals of £14,000 from her SIPP. She had minimal 
other sources of income. So I can understand why she wanted to continue drawing 
the same level of income from her SIPP to maintain her standard of living. But the 
value of her SIPP was then valued at about £222,000, making the effective 
withdrawal rate 6.3%. Taking into account charges, her SIPP would need to increase 
in value by at least 7% every year simply to replenish the income being drawn, let 
alone achieve excess capital growth. This is a high withdrawal rate and meant that 
unless Ms W reduced her level of withdrawals it was very likely she would exhaust 
the SIPP fund value in her lifetime.
Ms W may not have understood the long-term implications of drawing a high level of 
income from her SIPP over a sustained period. She appointed Flying Colours to 
provide expert advice. Financial planning generally involves managing client 
expectations and a need for compromises to reflect the reality of a clients 
circumstances. In 2021, Flying Colours adviser recognised that Ms W was 
withdrawing an unsustainable level of income from her SIPP and recommended that 
she reduce this and consider reducing the level of risk to avoid the fund being unduly 
depleted in a market downturn. However, Ms W maintained investment in the Baillie 
Gifford Managed fund and continued taking withdrawals.
In my view, the issue here is not necessarily the suitability of the Baillie Gifford 
Managed fund itself, but the fact that Ms W continued to withdraw income from her 
SIPP in a falling market. She experienced what is known as negative or reverse 
pound cost averaging. This is where an investor is drawing an income from an 
investment but the value of units in that investment have or continue to reduce in a 
falling market and so more units need to be sold (than would otherwise be the case 
in a rising market) to generate the same level of income. Withdrawing a high level of 
income during that period compounded Ms Ws situation by crystallising losses which 
reduced the potential for investment gains in the future when the unit price of the 
Baillie Gifford Managed fund eventually reversed.
I understand why Ms W is very upset about the reduction in the value of her SIPP 
and the impact this has had and will continue to have on her financial situation in the 
future, but I cannot find Flying Colours responsible for this. As I noted above, Flying 
Colours isnt responsible for the performance of the Baillie Gifford Managed fund. And it isnt responsible for the level of income Ms W withdrew from her SIPP and the 
impact this had on crystallising her loss, particularly after its adviser recommended 
that she reduce or stop withdrawals and instead utilise her non-pension investments 
to meet her income need. The advisers aim in suggesting a reduction in withdrawals 
was to increase the level of sustainable income that could be drawn from the SIPP 
over the longer term. Ms W didnt follow that recommendation and continued to draw 
income from her SIPP.
Flying Colours relationship with Ms W didnt require it to monitor the value of her 
SIPP daily. The basis of their relationship was broadly that it would carry out annual 
reviews or provide advice sooner if she requested it. In the interim, it carried out 
quarterly reviews of all the multi-asset funds that it advises clients to invest in  and it 
was following its Q4 2021 review of the Baillie Gifford Managed fund that it advised 
her in February 2022 to switch to its Passive Portfolio Service. Ms W thinks Flying 
Colours shouldve advised her to switch sooner, but I dont agree since it wasnt 
contractually required to monitor her SIPP daily and/or make discretionary 
investment decisions on her behalf.
Our aim in resolving a complaint is to place the consumer, as close as possible, into 
the correct financial position had the error or unfair treatment not happened. In this 
case, while I understand why Ms W is very upset and distressed by the sudden and 
significant reduction in the value of her SIPP between July 2021 and February 2022, 
overall, I dont think that Flying Colours made an error or treated her unfairly for the 
reasons explained. Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to direct Flying Colours to pay compensation to Ms W  or to 
take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against Flying 
Colours Advice Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman