DRN-1658412
 
complaint
Mr T says Stagemount Limited, trading as Quid Market, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two loans Quid Market provided to Mr T between August 2017 and 
December 2017. A summary of Mr Ts borrowing history, as evidenced by Quid Market, is as 
follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 16/08/2017 21/12/2017 4 £300.00 £134.77
2 29/12/2017 25/05/2018 5 £500.00 £180.33
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought both these loans shouldnt have been 
given. Quid Market disagreed as it felt the checks it carried out were proportionate, and that 
the loans were affordable for Mr T based on his declared income and expenditure at the 
time. So as Quid Market disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quid Market was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Quid Market says it carried out an affordability check before allowing Mr T to take out either 
of these loans  which involved it requesting information about Mr Ts income and 
expenditure. But Ive also seen that Quid Market carried out a credit check and the results of 
the credit check have been supplied.  
Mr T took out his first loan with Quid Market on 16 August 2017, and the credit check Quid 
Market carried out was dated the same day. This credit check shows that Mr T had nine 
active accounts at the time, three of which were showing as short-term loan accounts on 
which Mr T had defaulted, and one was showing as a short-term loan which was recorded as 
delinquent at the time. This suggests Mr T had been using short-term loans for some time to 
balance his financial situation but was not able to keep up with the repayments. Having 
several short-term loans outstanding also suggests Mr T was potentially becoming reliant on 
this type of expensive credit. 
Mr T took out his second loan with Quid Market on 29 December 2017, and the credit check 
Quid Market carried out was conducted one day before. This credit check shows that Mr T 
had 11 active accounts at this time. Four of these were showing as short-term loans which 
Mr T had defaulted on, and one was a short-term loan which was recorded as delinquent. So 
again, this information  which Quid Market had at the time  suggested Mr T was not able 
to keep up with the repayments on his current outstanding debts, so its unlikely he wouldve 
been able to keep up with any additional repayments. 
Quid Market says that even with Mr Ts short-term loan commitments at the time, it still 
thinks the two loans were affordable for Mr T based on his income and expenditure. But I 
think a responsible lender shouldve realised that Mr T wasnt managing his current finances 
well and was juggling short-term loans to keep afloat. And someone in this situation would 
be unlikely to repay any further loans sustainably. So, I dont think Quid Market shouldve 
lent Mr T these two loans on this basis.
So, Im upholding the complaint as I dont think Quid Market shouldve provided Mr T with 
any loans based on the information it had at the time. Quid Market should put things right.
putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans 1 and 2;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Ts credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market take off tax from this interest. Quid Market 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Stagemount Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman