DRN-4158245
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Ethos Financial Solutions Ltd (Ethos) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr W is being represented by a professional third party but for ease of reading this decision 
Ill largely refer to representations as being made by Mr W.
What happened
Mr W held benefits in the BSPS. In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the 
employers DB pension scheme) from the company. The consultation with members referred 
to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were then provided by the BSPS trustees to 
qualifying members, reflecting the improved funding position  with the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws pension being £431,980.05. And in October 2017 
members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them the options to 
either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their 
BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make a decision about joining the BSPS2 was 
11 December 2017 (later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr W was referred to Ethos by another business in November 2017 for advice about his 
BSPS pension. I understand the other business was not in a position to provide advice 
before the time to choose deadline.
Ethos completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. Mr W was 47, in good health, married with two non-financially dependent 
children. He and Mrs W were both employed. They owned their own home with an 
outstanding mortgage. This had a remaining term of 14 years, but notes indicate that they 
intended to make overpayments and repay this in full within the next 9 years. They had a 
further loan for £14,000 due to be repaid in the next 5 years and held £10,000 in savings.
In addition to his BSPS pension, Mr W was a member of a new defined contribution (DC) 
pension set up by his employer. It was also noted that Mrs W was a member of her 
employers pension scheme and had been for 29 years. But details of its value were not 
obtained.
Mr Ws normal retirement age was recorded as 65. Ethos noted that he was potentially 
looking to move to part time work from age 55 and so may access some of his pension 
benefits at that time. It said Mr and Mrs W expected to need an income of £18,000 - £20,000 
per year in retirement. A statement was ticked, from a list of options, indicating Mr W may 
consider taking the maximum possible tax-free cash (TFC) sum at retirement, but there was 
no purpose for needing this recorded. Other tick box options were completed which indicated 
that Mr W liked the idea of having control and flexibility in terms of how he could take his 
retirement benefits and the death benefits that would be available. Similar questions were 
answered indicating he agreed he was comfortable taking some risk. Mr W was also asked 
to select from a list of options what he thought his attitude to risk was. The option for 
balanced was selected.
Ethos says that it met with Mr W on 7 December 2017 and discussed its advice with him. Its 
notes said that, following the discussion, Mr W had decided he would like to transfer his 
benefits away from the BSPS. And it said the reasons for this were that he was concerned 
about the future of the scheme, preferred to have flexibility and control over his pension 
benefits and thought having lump sum death benefits with his pension would be more useful 
to his family. Some forms to enable the transfer were signed at that time.
On 11 December 2017, Ethos sent Mr W a written summary of its advice (often referred to 
as a suitability report). This confirmed that Ethos recommendation was that Mr W transfer 
his pension benefits into a personal pension on a named providers platform and invest in 
funds it thought met Mr Ws attitude to risk. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
were that although its analysis indicated the existing scheme would likely meet his income 
requirements in retirement, it still recommended a transfer as this provided flexibility, access 
to potentially greater TFC and addressed the other things hed discussed with it previously.
Mr W complained to Ethos in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Ethos didnt 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it believed its advice was suitable based on Mr Ws 
objectives. 
Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
considered it and said they thought it should be upheld. He thought Mr W was always likely 
to receive lower benefits at retirement by transferring. He also thought Mr W could meet his 
income requirements within the scheme, didnt have a genuine need for flexibility or control 
and that the alternative death benefits offered by a personal pension didnt mean that a 
transfer was in his best interests. So, he recommended that Ethos compensate Mr W for any 
losses caused by the unsuitable advice and pay him £300 for the distress hed incurred. 
Ethos disagreed. It said it thought the returns required to match the benefits Mr W was giving 
up by transferring were realistic. And the recommendation was suitable based on his 
objectives. It also said it disclosed the relevant risks and thought Mr W had made an 
informed decision to proceed. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He still didnt consider Mr W was 
likely to improve on the benefits he was giving up. And he noted the advice resulted in 
Mr Ws pension being exposed to investment risk, when his plans for retirement werent 
confirmed. He also made the point that Ethos role was to give objective advice, not to put in 
place what Mr W mightve thought he wanted.
As agreement could not be reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Ethos's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Ethos should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Ethos was required, by the regulator, to produce a transfer value analysis (TVAS). This 
included calculating critical yields which showed how much Mr Ws pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme at retirement. 
Ethos calculated critical yields required to match the benefits that the BSPS2 and PPF would 
provide from ages 65, 60 and 55.
If Mr W retired at age 65 the critical yield required to match the full pension the BSPS2 
wouldve paid him was 5.87%. And to match the maximum TFC and reduced starting 
pension the BSPS2 wouldve offered was 4.97%. To match the full pension the PPF 
wouldve paid from that age the critical yield was 4.55% and to match the TFC and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered it was 4.25%.
For retiring at age 60 the critical yields were higher, which is common in such calculations, 
as the funds have less time to grow. To match the full pension the BSPS2 wouldve paid the 
critical yield required was 6.98%. And to match the TFC and reduced pension the BSPS2 
wouldve provided at that point it was 5.76%. In respect of the benefits the PPF wouldve offered the yields were 5.31% for a full pension and 4.95% if taking maximum TFC.
And to replicate the benefits both schemes wouldve offered from age 55, the yields were 
higher still. In respect of the BSPS2 benefits they were 9.66% for a full pension and 7.64% if 
taking TFC. And for the benefits the PPF wouldve provided in the same scenario the yields 
were 7.19% and 6.88% respectively.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. The relevant discount rates at the time were 
4.4% for 17 years to retirement  relevant if Mr W retired at age 65, 4.0% for 12 years to 
retirement (retiring at 60) and 3.4% for 7 years to retirement (at age 55). 
There would be little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme and taking on the associated risks only to achieve, at best, the same level of 
benefits outside the scheme. And by transferring Mr W would have to pay annual fees and 
charges for the personal pension, which would reduce any gains the funds made. And those 
are not charges he would have had to pay if he didnt transfer.
Im not sure that asking Mr W to select his own risk profile from a list of options was a 
sufficiently robust way of truly determining his attitude to risk. But nevertheless, even with his 
recorded balanced attitude to risk, given the discount rates and considering the regulators 
standard projection rates at the time of 2%, 5% and 8% for low, medium and high rate 
returns respectively, I think he was always likely to receive pension benefits of a lower value 
than those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring. 
Particularly so, in the case of early retirement.
And the critical yields arent the only thing that, in my view, indicated Mr W would likely be 
worse off in retirement by transferring. The TVAS estimated that the cost, or pension fund 
value that would be required, to purchase equivalent benefits at age 65 to those the BSPS2 
would provide was £855,766.68 for a full pension or £735,779.81 for taking equivalent TFC 
and reduced pension. But a personalised illustration from the recommended pension 
provider said if its mid-rate of growth was achieved until age 65 the projected value the fund 
Mr W might have was £451,000. Which is significantly below what would be needed to 
replicate the guaranteed benefits that Mr W was giving up. 
Ethos felt the critical yields were achievable, considering the historic performance of the 
recommended fund. But as Ethos will know, past performance is no guarantee for future 
performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to 
be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time. Ethos has also said that the hurdle rates were 
achievable. But those rates are not based on replicating the guaranteed benefits Mr W was 
giving up as they do not account for a spouses pension nor the pension continuing to 
escalate while in payment. So, I dont think these support that a transfer was in Mr Ws best 
interests. 
Ethos has said there were other reasons that meant the transfer was suitable for Mr W. It 
said he wanted flexibility and control to potentially be able to access his pension benefits 
before the normal scheme retirement age and to vary his income. It also suggested in the 
suitability report that he may be entitled to greater TFC if he transferred and that this was of 
interest to him. And it says he was interested in the alternative lump death benefits a personal pension offered. Ill go on to address these other reasons. But Id also add that 
Ethoss role wasnt that of wish fulfilment or to put in place what Mr W mightve thought he 
wanted when seeking advice. It was to give him objective advice about what was in his best 
interests.
The suitability report indicated Mr W may be able to draw a greater sum of TFC from his 
pension on retirement by transferring. But Mr W had no recorded need to access TFC. The 
fact-find indicated that his and Mrs Ws personal loans were going to be repaid before he 
reached retirement. And, while the term of the mortgage was due to run beyond Mr W 
reaching 55, it was recorded that Mr and Mrs W intended to clear this sooner, within nine 
years. There was no suggestion that they intended to use or rely on accessing pension 
funds in order to do so. And there was no other expenditure or purpose recorded for 
requiring access to TFC. So, I dont think the potential for higher TFC, which in any event 
would be dependent on investment performance and involved exposing Mr Ws pension to 
risk, meant a transfer was in his interests when he didnt have a need to access TFC.
The fact-find noted Mr and Mrs W expected to need an income of £18,000 - £20,000 per 
year in retirement and that Mr W was potentially thinking of accessing his benefits before the 
normal retirement age of his scheme. But Mr W couldve taken benefits under the BSPS2 or 
the PPF before age 65. It is true that these wouldve been subject to actuarial reductions. 
But that was to reflect the fact that benefits wouldve been payable for longer than if he 
waited to his normal retirement age. And, as Ive already explained, Mr W was unlikely to be 
able to improve on the benefits hed have been guaranteed by the scheme from age 60 or 
55 by transferring.
Ethos also acknowledged in the suitability report that the scheme benefits were likely to 
meet his income needs in retirement. Which is supported by the TVAS reports. Under the 
BSPS2 Mr W was expected to be entitled to a pension of £18,800 from age 60  which met 
their needs. Or a pension of £17,273.81 from the PPF. From age 55, he was expected to be 
entitled to a pension of £14,906 from the BSPS2 or £14,332.88 per year from the PPF. 
Which fell short of their expected needs. But the fact-find suggested Mr W also intended to 
continue working part-time, if he did phase into retirement from age 55. So, wouldve 
expected to receive further income for that work. And he wouldve also had access to 
benefits hed built up in his employers new DC scheme in that time. And that is before even 
taking into account Mrs Ws ongoing salary or benefits she mayve been able to draw from 
her pension. So, I dont think Mr W needed to transfer to meet his income requirements. And 
I cant see that he had a genuine need to be able to vary his income in retirement or for 
flexibility.
And ultimately, I dont think Mr Ws plans for retirement were confirmed. The fact-find 
recorded that he may look to move into part time work and retire before his normal 
retirement age. But there isnt anything to suggest this was little more than an aspiration. 
And further notes indicate that Mr W was unsure when he would do this, as Ethos 
referenced this potentially happening in his late fifties. I dont doubt that Mr W liked the idea 
of potentially retiring early. I think, when asked, most people would say they would like to do 
so. But, when it had come to it, he mayve felt differently or opted not to retire early. And 
overall, I think it was too soon for Mr W to make an irreversible decision to transfer out of his 
DB scheme. Particularly when he had the option of joining the BSPS2, which, wouldve met 
his needs and because by joining it he would retain the option to transfer out at a later date if 
his circumstances required it.
Ethos said Mr W was interested in the lump sum death benefits of a personal pension. But 
Mr W was relatively young and in good health, so there was no reason to believe he wouldnt 
be reliant on his pension to meet his own needs in retirement  which is a pensions primary 
purpose, not to provide a legacy to the holders estate. And while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the sum remaining on death 
following a transfer was always likely to be different. It would be subject to market risks and 
fluctuations and would be reduced by any income Mr W took during his lifetime, which given 
Ethoss advice seems to have been on the basis of him drawing sums from age 55 were 
likely to result in it being reduced. So, the pension may not have provided the legacy Mr W 
mightve thought it would. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a 
spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
If Mr W was concerned about leaving a legacy, insurance was an option. Ethos has provided 
evidence indicating it obtained a whole of life insurance quote, based on the CETV less the 
lump sum that the existing scheme provided, but Mr W discounted this because of the cost. 
Notwithstanding that Ethoss role was to advise Mr W about what was in his best interests, 
basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ws pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Rather the 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mr W how much he would ideally like to leave to his 
family, which also wouldve served to illustrate that this wasnt in fact just a generic objective. 
And if Mr W was still unhappy with the cost, this couldve also been explored on a term 
assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was in 
Mr Ws best interests. And ultimately Ethos should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise 
the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
I dont doubt that Mr W was likely to have been upset by what had happened with his 
pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his employer and mightve 
thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would have been a 
very natural emotional response to what was happening. But I dont think, based on what 
Ive seen, that he was committed to that course of action. And again, Ethoss role was to 
give impartial, objective advice. Mr Ws employer and pension scheme were not one and the 
same. And Mr W intended to continue in his job and was paying into a new pension scheme 
with his employer. So, the relationship may not have irretrievably broken down as 
suggested. 
Mr W may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering the PPF. 
But the BSPS2 was being established as an alternative. This was expected to provide better 
benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr W the option to transfer closer to retirement. But 
even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr W with guaranteed income and the 
option of accessing his benefits early, which he was unlikely to be able to replicate or 
improve on by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve 
thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his 
best interests.
And I cant see that Mr W had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. Indeed, the recommendation to transfer was on the 
understanding he would take ongoing advice about how his pension was invested, at a 
further cost. So, I dont think that having control over his pension was a genuine objective for 
Mr W  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ws best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
Ethos says that Mr W made an informed decision to transfer. And I can see that it did give 
him information about some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it made its 
recommendation. But ultimately, it advised Mr W to transfer. And I think he relied on that advice. If Ethos, a professional adviser whose expertise he had been recommended, had 
explained why it wasnt in his best interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that 
advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr W received from Ethos was 
unsuitable. 
Our Investigator recommended that Ethos make a payment for the distress caused to Mr W. 
I accept that Mr W has likely been worried to find, when he discussed matters with his 
representative, that the advice might not have been suitable for him. And given the 
circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice, I dont doubt he 
has been concerned. This wouldn't have occurred but for the advice that is the subject of this 
complaint. So, in the circumstances, I think the recommended award of £300 is fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Ethos to put Mr W, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. The suitability report noted that 
Mr W opted to join the BSPS2 before taking advice. So, if suitable advice had been given, 
I consider Mr W would have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and 
joined the BSPS2. 
Ethos must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Ethos should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Ethos 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Ethos should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Ethoss offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Ethos may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Ethos should pay Mr W £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Ethos Financial 
Solutions Ltd to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Ethos Financial Solutions Ltd pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Ethos Financial 
Solutions Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman