DRN-3227929
The complaint
Ms T complains that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt let port her mortgage product to a 
house that she was going to share with her partner which was already subject to a 
Nationwide mortgage. Ms T also complains about Nationwides poor customer service. Ms T 
would like the early repayment charge (ERC) she paid when she sold her property to be 
refunded.
What happened
Ms T took out a new mortgage product on her existing property in 2019. Ms T and her 
partner lived in the same village and her partners property has a mortgage with Nationwide. 
They decided to move in together in her partners property, sell her property and Ms T would 
use the proceeds to buy an equal share of her partners property. Ms T thought the ideal way 
to do that was to port her remaining mortgage and use the remaining cash from the sale of 
her property to purchase her share. This was to avoid an ERC which would be payable on 
her mortgage.
On  March 2021, they had a consultation with a mortgage adviser when it was suggested 
that this be a joint application with Ms T and her partner but the adviser couldnt proceed 
with the appointment as she needed to take advice. But on 10 March they were told that 
Nationwide was unable to help and again on 11 March when Nationwide said that the 
mortgage product couldnt be ported as there was an existing Nationwide mortgage on the 
property. 
Ms T was unable to satisfactorily resolve the matter with Nationwide and brought a 
complaint. Whilst our investigator thought there were some service issues that Nationwide 
should compensate Ms T for and suggested £75, he felt that Nationwide was acting in 
accordance with the terms of its lending criteria in not allowing the porting application to 
proceed and recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. Ms T disagreed 
saying in summary that Nationwides criteria allows porting from a joint mortgage to a single 
mortgage and vice versa and that there would be no problem with Ms T buying a property of 
her own if the property was already in mortgage to Nationwide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T had a mortgage product which was portable meaning that if Ms T was able to take out 
a new mortgage on another property, that she could port the mortgage product to that new 
mortgage. Thats set out at Section 8 of the mortgage offer of 20 November 2019.  Getting a 
mortgage would be subject to meeting Nationwides lending criteria. The problem as I see it 
here was that there wasnt going to be a new mortgage on the property. The property was 
already subject to a mortgage with Nationwide in the name of Ms Ts partner who continued 
to live in the property and would be a joint account holder on the mortgage.  What essentially 
was happening was that Ms T was buying a half share in the property and Ms T and her 
partner would continue with the existing mortgage but now as joint account holders. 
Nationwides mortgage  or charge - would remain on the property although the name of the 
account holder would change to joint account holders. That is different to the normal 
situation where an existing mortgage is redeemed and replaced by a new mortgage.   
The missing ingredient for Ms T was a new mortgage to port over the mortgage product to in 
order avoid the ERC. There would be no new mortgage on the property as there was already 
a mortgage on the property in Ms Ts partners name. All that was happening in reality was 
that Ms T was taking over a liability in respect of this mortgage. As Ms T notes Nationwide 
allows a single mortgage to be ported to a joint mortgage but again that is normally where a 
customer and partner would have bought a new property with a new mortgage and not as 
here where they were effectively adding a borrower to an existing mortgage. 
Nationwide says that this is not a situation where its lending criteria allows it to facilitate Ms T 
to port her mortgage product and I dont find that unreasonable and so Im unable to uphold 
the main part of this complaint. I note that Ms T identified that there were some service 
issues where Nationwide could have been more helpful. I accept that to be the case and as 
compensation Nationwide should pay Ms T £75 as compensation for her disappointment 
with those aspects of Nationwides service.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should pay Ms T £75
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Ms T £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman