DRN-3990532
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sky UK Limited are holding him responsible for all the payments due 
under a fixed sum loan agreement.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr S entered into an interest free fixed sum loan agreement with Sky to 
finance the purchase of a mobile phone which was also supplied by Sky. The cash price of 
the phone was £1,068. Mr S was required to make 24 monthly repayments of £33, followed 
by 12 monthly payments of £23.
On the day Mr S received the delivery from Sky he contacted them to say the phone wasnt 
inside the box. He provided pictures showing the outer box it was delivered in as well as 
pictures of the packaging for the phone inside to show that box had been opened and only 
contained the accessories, not the phone.
Sky looked into Mr S concerns but said that it found no evidence to suggest the delivery 
packaging had been tampered with and it was satisfied the phone had been in the box when 
it was delivered. It said that Mr S was still required to make the payments under the credit 
agreement.
I sent Mr S and Sky my provisional decision on 17 February 2023. I explained why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Mr S took out a credit agreement in order to finance the purchase of the phone. As 
the supplier of that phone, Sky was also responsible for the delivery of it to Mr S. 
There were two separate contracts that Mr S entered into with Sky. One was for the 
supply and use of the phone and associated services and the other was the fixed 
sum loan agreement to pay for the phone. However, both contracts were essentially 
sold as one package. Mr S was required to enter into the credit agreement because 
he chose not to pay for the phone upfront.
I think its relevant for me to consider both contracts together when considering 
whether Sky treated Mr S fairly. I say this because it appears it was a term of the 
fixed sum loan agreement that Mr S entered into the linked contract for the phone 
and associated services. So, I consider that the two contracts were intrinsically 
linked.
I note the credit agreement has terms which seek to prevent Mr S from reducing his 
liability under the agreement by way of deduction, set-off or counterclaim. For 
instance, this might be in situations where Mr S might have a claim about the failure 
to supply the goods to him under the linked contract for goods and services. Ive 
thought about what the Consumer Rights Act 2015 says about contract terms. While 
it is ultimately for a Court to decide if a contract term is unfair, Im required to take the 
law into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to prevent Mr S from potentially setting 
off a claim under one contract against the other. This is because to do so would 
cause a significant imbalance in the parties rights and I dont think this significant 
clause was made sufficiently clear prior to Mr S entering into the credit agreement.
The issue therefore is whether I consider, on balance, that the phone was delivered 
to Mr S. Our investigator made multiple requests for further evidence and information 
from Sky about their fulfilment process in order to substantiate what they had said 
about why they were confident the phone was inside the delivery box. Unfortunately, 
while Sky has provided lots of explanations about the process, theyve failed to 
provide much useful evidence to show what actually happens during the fulfilment 
process. However, despite this, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that in this 
specific case the phone was delivered to Mr S. Ill explain why.
When Mr S first contacted Sky he told them that the outer delivery box was 
completely sealed. He also provided Sky with a number of pictures of the box, none 
of which show any signs that it had been opened or accessed prior to delivery. Mr S 
later told our investigator that it was possible to access the contents inside from the 
bottom of the box. However, despite our investigator asking Mr S to provide us with 
photos of the bottom of the box, he didnt do so. Given what Mr S has said about the 
condition of the box has been inconsistent, it makes it more difficult for me to place 
much weight on what hes told us.
From the pictures Ive seen, it doesnt appear that the delivery box was tampered 
with. I note that on the packaging it included the weight of the contents. Our 
understanding of the fulfilment process indicates that the weight marked on the box is 
consistent with the weight of the parcel if this particular phone had been inside and 
that the box would only have been weighed once it was sealed. All of this leads me to 
conclude its more likely the phone was inside the box when delivered.
Further to this, I note Mr S told our investigator that when he first reported the 
problem to Sky that Sky conducted a remote search which concluded that the only 
active devices it could locate in his area were his old mobile phone and his laptop. 
He says this shows the phone wasnt at his property. Sky says it would not have told 
Mr S this, and Im persuaded thats the case. This is because I understand Sky dont 
have access to technology that would be able to identify what non-Sky devices Mr S 
might have and which are active. And even if it did, given Mr S lives in a block of 
flats, it wouldnt be possible to pinpoint which devices were being used in each 
individual home. This has therefore further made me question how much reliance 
I can place on Mr S recollection of events.
Overall, Im not persuaded that its likely the phone was missing from the box and I 
therefore dont think Sky has acted unfairly in holding Mr S responsible for repaying 
the credit agreement. I accept it is of course possible that the phone wasnt in the box 
as Mr S says. And in making this finding Im not suggesting that Mr S has lied about 
not receiving it. Instead, I dont consider there is enough persuasive evidence to 
conclude its more likely the phone was missing on delivery.
Sky accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments to make. Mr S didnt 
accept it. He said that he had received just a box with no phone inside. He said hed done 
everything he could have done including notifying Sky straightaway, asking them to try and 
trace the phone and notifying the police.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr S maintains the phone wasnt delivered to him, he hasnt provided any new or 
persuasive evidence following my provisional decision to make me think it was more likely 
than not that he received an empty box on delivery. I havent therefore seen any reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. 
I agree its possible the phone wasnt delivered to him. However, based on everything thats 
been said and provided by both parties, Im satisfied that Sky have acted fairly and 
reasonably in not upholding Mr S complaint. I dont therefore consider Sky needs to do 
anything to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman