DRN-4440511
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund transactions she 
didnt recognise.
What happened
Mrs L reported a large number of transactions (+170) made using her debit card that she 
didnt recognise. They were all made to various betting merchants and Mrs L asked Barclays 
for a refund. She explained that she didnt gamble and later believed the disputed 
transactions were carried out by a close family member (Ill refer to them as B). Mrs L also 
notified action fraud about the situation.
Mrs L received a temporary refund for a portion of these transactions, but after Barclays 
looked into what had happened, including contacting a number of the merchants to obtain 
further information about the transactions, they thought Mrs L herself was responsible. This 
was partly based on the responses from the betting merchants that indicated accounts had 
been set up using Mrs Ls genuine details (name/address/email address and phone) plus the 
card details attached to her bank account. One of the accounts had also been in operation 
for several years. IP address data was also presented showing that the betting activity had 
taken place in the same locations that Mrs L carried out her internet banking from. The 
temporary refund was withdrawn from her accounts and Barclays declined to make any 
further refund.
During the investigation by Barclays, Mrs L was told that shed receive a refund relating to 
some of the transactions. Barclays later said this was incorrect but later made a goodwill 
payment matching the earlier incorrect information regarding the refund.
Mrs Ls account also received various refunds directly from the merchants, but the bulk of 
her claim wasnt refunded. Mrs L complained to Barclays about this and after further 
considering the situation, they declined to make further refunds, believing that Mrs L herself 
was responsible.
Mrs L disagreed with their outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review. Both parties were asked for information about the 
complaint and Mrs L was able to say that:
She thinks B was responsible.
They (B) were around Mrs Ls house a lot at the time and could have obtained the 
card details.
Mrs L didnt always have her phone with her.
Mrs L didnt provide any security information to B (for online banking access).
Mrs L was away for some of the time, which accounted for the delay in informing the 
bank about the transactions.
Mrs L didnt receive any notifications on her phone and didnt operate any betting 
accounts.
Mrs L didnt receive any winnings from any betting merchants.
Mrs L was asked for further information and said that she was visiting with her mother and 
couldnt log on to see what was happening with her account. This explained the delay in 
notifying the bank. Mrs L was asked about incoming payments into her account from B which 
seemed to match some of the betting payments made from her account. Mrs L couldnt 
remember why theyd been sent by B.
Barclays provided details, including audit evidence of the disputed transactions and logs of 
Mrs Ls mobile banking activity. Further documents were provided, including the responses 
from a couple of betting merchants. Their position regards this complaint was:
Barclays records show that Mrs L confirmed to them she retained sole access to her 
mobile banking app and the security details used to access it are known only to her. 
She also confirmed she hadnt been received any suspicious messages or request 
for private information.
Some of the payments to the betting companies required additional security steps 
carried out through Mrs Ls phone.
The details held by the betting companies matched Mrs Ls genuine information 
including her email and current phone number (which also matched the details 
Barclays held).
IP address data matched Mrs Ls use of her mobile banking app and those details 
received from the betting merchants.
Mrs L was accessing her mobile banking whilst the betting was being carried out, 
meaning she would have been aware of the activity on her account (but didnt notify 
Barclays at the time) and this is gross negligence.
Mrs Ls account received winnings from some of the betting which would only be of 
use to Mrs L (as it was her account).
There were other types of betting transactions that Mrs L hasnt disputed. 
There was no evidence of third-party access to her account.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
After reviewing the evidence provided by both parties, Mrs Ls complaint wasnt upheld, the 
investigator commented that:
oMrs Ls accessed her online banking during the periods of the disputed 
transactions and would have been aware of them.
oIncoming payments from B suggested funds were received to pay for the 
betting transactions.oMrs L hadnt queried £440 of winnings received into her account despite 
denying she had accounts with these merchants, one of which was from 
several years earlier.
oMrs Ls phone had been used to carry out additional security steps in order to 
confirm certain transactions.
oThe disputed activity is untypical of fraudulent use of someones account.
After receiving the report from the investigator, Mrs L disagreed and in summary commented 
that:
It wasnt her who was checking her mobile banking because shed also given access 
to her husband and mother in order to monitor the account for unusual activity due to 
Bs gambling issue. 
She didnt check the statements, only the headline figures on her account.
After Mrs L was told that logins to her account were carried out when visiting with her 
mother -  Mrs L said B was also with her.
Mrs L said she used to store her online banking details on her phone which explained 
how B could have carried out the additional security steps.
She felt that her version of events was being discounted.
She was very busy which accounted for her not noticing these transactions.
Shed complained directly to the betting merchants about her identity being stolen.
If shed made the transactions herself, then why would she have reported this to 
Action Fraud?
Mrs L provided a letter from Barclays confirming fraud on her account from a 
separate claim.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mrs L liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs L authorised 
the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card details for online payments 
conclusively proves that they were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Ls account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools issued to Mrs L. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mrs L responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
It's Mrs Ls case that B was responsible for the 170 + disputed transactions made from her 
account, whilst Barclays believe the evidence shows they were made by Mrs L. 
I noted that Mrs L believed her version of events was being discounted. My role here is to 
make a finding based on all the available evidence, including all of Mrs Ls submissions. 
Whilst I havent discounted Mrs Ls evidence, I have taken a view on some of her 
submissions, which Ill go on to explain.
Having examined the available evidence concerning Mrs Ls complaint, Ive found it difficult 
to sort through the changes in her version of events. Id expect to see some differences, 
particularly when the story is recounted several times over a period of months. But Barclays 
records show that Mrs L confirmed she had sole access to her account and associated 
security details, this later changed to allowing other members of her family access to the 
account (to monitor Bs betting activity). The latest change to who had access to her device 
and security details was only made once it was raised by the investigators report concerning 
the use of online banking. Its difficult to reconcile who actually had access due to the quite 
different versions given by Mrs L. 
Mrs L explained that at some point, she visited her mother (who was elsewhere in the UK) 
and when it was pointed out that there were disputed transactions made during this period 
from that same location, Mrs L said B was also with her (having not mentioned this before).
Mrs L denied opening any of the betting accounts, but the merchants confirmed that they 
held genuine details about Mrs L, including her current mobile phone number. Some of the 
transactions required extra security steps which were carried out using Mrs Ls phone.
Mrs L said B had access to this and the banking login details were recorded on the phone. 
This meant that B could have intercepted the messages from the merchants and responded 
to the additional checks on some of the transactions.
When asked about the online usage of her phone and the likelihood that Mrs L knew about 
the transactions, she explained that it wasnt her (because shed given access to her family). 
I found this difficult to understand as its Mrs Ls case that access to her online account was 
provided to other family members for the specific reason to check that B wasnt using it for 
betting purposes. 
If indeed this was the case, then I cant comprehend why the card wasnt cancelled and the 
banking logins renewed to prevent B accessing the account. Also, if the banking logins were 
made by her family checking on B, then why wasnt the matter raised earlier? Presumably, if 
they were concerned that B was using Mrs Ls account, then the sole purpose of checking 
the online banking activity was to prevent that, but here that didnt happen for some time.
Mrs L denied betting, but theres evidence that various other transactions had been made to 
other betting merchants not disputed by Mrs L and various winnings werent raised as an 
issue by her either. It could, of course be that Mrs L wasnt aware of further use of her 
account (by B) which could account for not raising them  but I dont think thats the answer 
here.
Mrs L couldnt explain why the numerous payments made by B were paid into Mrs Ls 
account. If B was using Mrs Ls account without her permission, then why were there so 
many transfers into the account? It also raises the question that why would B need to use Mrs Ls card and account as she had her own funds that she was paying to Mrs L? It makes 
little sense to me that B would need to risk using Mrs Ls account when she was paying 
money into Mrs Ls account  why not just carry out the transactions directly?
Mrs L has also said she hadnt noticed these transactions because she was very busy. 
Whilst I dont doubt that Mrs L had other matters to attend to, the breadth of these disputed 
transactions and the large number of them seem to make it unlikely B could continually take 
Mrs Ls phone and use it in support of her betting purchases without discovery by Mrs L or 
other family members. These transactions took place at most hours throughout the day and 
night  it just doesnt seem plausible that B could do this without being found out.
Ive also considered the notification to action fraud by Mrs L and the fraud letter from 
Barclays. Mrs L argued that she wouldnt have notified action fraud if she wasnt a victim of 
fraud. I cant say why she did notify them, but overall, the evidence points towards Mrs L 
making these transactions or at the very least allowing someone else to use her account. I 
note that the letter she received from Barclays refers to a different claim and isnt related to 
this complaint, so whilst I can see Barclays confirmed she was the victim of fraud  it isnt 
related to these transactions.
Im afraid I didnt find Mrs Ls explanations plausible and the evidence that Ive considered 
leads me to the conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not 
that Mrs L authorised or allowed her card details to be used to make the payments. As Ive 
made a finding regarding authorisation, I wont go on to consider gross negligence. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or
 reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman