DRN-4486625
The complaint
Mrs A says Metro Bank PLC (Metro), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to a an 
authorised push payment (APP) cryptocurrency investment scam. She says Metro should 
reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In summary, Mrs A fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. Mrs A was duped into 
believing she was liaising with a genuine investment firm and made a payment of £1,500 
from her Metro account to a cryptocurrency account in her own name, and then from there, 
on to what she thought was a company and adviser that would invest for her.
Unfortunately Mrs A had in fact cruelly been duped by fraudsters. Mrs A uncovered that she 
had fallen victim to a scam when she was unable to withdraw any funds / profits.
Mrs A reported the matter to Metro who ultimately didnt consider it was liable for the losses 
she incurred.
Unhappy, Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
 
Ultimately the Investigator explained the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code), 
which Metro is a signatory of, didnt apply to the payment Mrs A made. They explained the 
payment was made to an account in her own name at the cryptocurrency exchange provider 
so wasnt covered by the CRM Code as the CRM Code requires consumers to pay another 
person. So they didnt consider Metro were liable to reimburse Mrs A because of any 
obligation under the CRM Code.
Our Investigator also didnt think Metro ought to have done more to identify the payment as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. They didnt consider Metro ought to have had a 
cause for concern that Mrs A was potentially at risk of financial harm, or that she was falling 
victim to a scam to an extent that it ought to have intervened and questioned her further 
about the payment she made.
 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, as Metro explained that it had received a 
response from the beneficiary bank advising that no funds remained, the Investigator 
considered there wasnt anything further that Metro could do to recover the funds.
Mrs A disagreed with the Investigators opinion and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Metro are liable to reimburse Mrs A under the CRM Code and whether it should have done 
more to prevent Mrs As losses. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts. 
Having thought carefully about Metros actions, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Mrs A was a victim of a cruel scam. But in 
weighing everything up, I dont consider Metro are liable to reimburse her under the 
CRM Code or otherwise. Ill explain why.
Why the CRM Code isnt applicable
The CRM Code sets out under DS1(2) (a) the scope of what the CRM Code covers in 
relation to authorised push payment (APP) fraud. And that is instances where: 
(i)The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
As the payment Mrs A made from her Metro account to the cryptocurrency exchange 
provider was to an account in her own name, it isnt covered by or within the scope of the 
CRM Code. This is because Mrs A wasnt paying another person.
The relevant law and regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is agreed by all parties that Mrs A made the payment from her Metro account. So it is the 
case that Mrs A authorised the payment that is in dispute. And under the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means Mrs A is 
responsible for it. That remains the case even though Mrs A was the unfortunate victim of a 
scam.
However there are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, 
even though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Metro have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.What does this mean for Mrs A?
In this case, I need to decide whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs A when she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I cant fairly say the payment Mrs A made 
would (or should) have alerted Metro that Mrs A was potentially at risk of financial harm, to 
an extent whereby it should have carried out some additional checks before processing the 
payment. So I dont consider Metro are liable for the losses Mrs A incurred. Ill explain why.
I have to be mindful that banks process a high volume of transfers and transactions each 
day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a 
payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. 
Here, I dont consider there is anything unusual or remarkable about the payment or the 
amount that ought to have alerted Metro to the possibility Mrs A was being scammed or was 
at risk of financial harm. And Im also mindful that Metro didnt have a historic relationship 
with Mrs A as the account had only been opened around 10 days prior to the payment made 
as a result of the scam. As there wasnt a historic relationship between the parties Metro 
wouldnt reasonably have been able to determine whether the payment Mrs A was making 
was unusual or out of character. And while I appreciate £1,500 was a lot of money to Mrs A, 
given the volume of payments Metro processes, the amount wasnt so significant that I 
would expect Metro to carry out some additional checks on it. 
All things considered; I think it was reasonable that the payment didnt flag as suspicious  
and I cant say Metro acted unfairly here. 
Recovery of the funds
I have also considered whether Metro did all it could to try and recover the money Mrs A lost. 
Given Mrs A sent the funds to a cryptocurrency account in her own name  with her money 
being converted into cryptocurrency and moved on  there wasnt anything further Metro 
could do to help Mrs A recover her funds. 
Summary
While I appreciate Mrs As been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think Metros 
decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because Im satisfied the CRM Code isnt applicable to the payment Mrs A made 
meaning Metro isnt liable to reimburse her under the CRM Code. 
And Metro followed Mrs As instructions to make the payment and I havent seen any reason 
why it shouldnt have done this. 
Unfortunately, given the funds Mrs A transferred were exchanged into cryptocurrency and 
moved on, there wasnt anything further Metro could do to help Mrs A recover her funds as 
none remained at the receiving account.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman
