DRN-1602786
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) treated her 
unfairly when it charged her interest after she made a late payment.
What happened
Ms B had a catalogue shopping account with Very. She used her account to buy an item for 
£365 using a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) offer. Very says Ms B made regular payments to 
the account, and she was made aware that payment was due in full on15 April 2019. Ms B 
didnt make full payment until 16 April 2019, so she was charged £195.06 interest. 
Ms B accepts she didnt make full payment until 16 April 2019. She disputes whether there 
was a pop up reminder on her computer when she logged into her account. But she 
accepts she was sent statements that set out when she had to pay the account in order to 
avoid being charged interest. 
However, Ms B thinks Very should have texted her to remind her that payment was due in 
full. She says Very has texted her in connection with other matters, and to tell her that her 
statements are available online. So she thinks that by not texting her to remind her to make 
payment in full, it acted unfairly. Ms B also says she had never missed a payment before 
with Very. As she made the payment less than 24 hours after it was due, she thinks Very 
shouldve waived the interest. She says this matter has had an impact on her credit score 
and mental health.
Our investigator said Very had applied the interest in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. So he didnt think it needed to do anything to resolve this complaint.
Ms B asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Very acted 
unfairly as Ms B has suggested. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Ms B paid for the relevant item on 16 April 2019 - the day after full 
payment was due. Nor is there any dispute that Very acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account when it applied £195.06 interest to her account. The terms and 
conditions say that with BNPL, interest is applicable. Interest can be avoided by paying off 
the full cost of the transaction before the end of the delayed payment period.
Ms B's statements make it clear that the BNPL offer was due to end on 15 April 2019, and 
that £195.06 interest was payable if full payment wasnt made by that date.I understand why Ms B is so frustrated by this matter. £195.06 is a large amount of interest 
to be paid given that the cash price of the item she bought was £365. However, I think Very 
has been clear about what would happen if any BNPL balance wasnt paid in time.
Ms B thinks she has been treated unfairly because she wasnt sent a reminder by text, and 
because she cleared the balance within 24 hours of full payment being due. She says other 
businesses wouldn't charge her interest in these circumstances. Ms B also says that Very 
has texted her about other matters in the past. So it shouldve texted her about this. 
I appreciate that Ms B feels that Very should remind customers by text when all payments 
are due. However it wasnt required to do this. Im also conscious that it isnt in dispute that 
Very made her aware when the payment was due. So I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Very to reimburse her on this basis.
I know Ms B wont be happy with my decision. She has told us she made an innocent 
mistake, and feels that she has been singled out. I understand her point of view. However, I 
dont think Very have acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the interest to her account 
given that she hadnt paid the balance by the end of the BNPL period. I've seen no evidence 
to suggest that she has been singled out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Laura Forster
Ombudsman