DRN-1978591
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy 
about the way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W made a claim under his car insurance policy and LV looked to settle his claim, but he 
wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. So, Mr W complained to LV as he felt that the 
valuation was too low and that his excess shouldnt be deducted. And as LV didnt change 
its position he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
LV had acted reasonably in valuing Mr Ws car as the valuation offered was in line with the 
trade valuation guides. And although he could understand why Mr W was unhappy that he 
had to pay an excess (as he had been the victim of vandalism) he thought LV was entitled to 
charge the excess in line with the policy terms and conditions. Finally, he thought LVs offer 
of £50 compensation for poor service was fair in the circumstances. As Mr W didnt agree 
the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W and his representative, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ws position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than LV have 
offered him. And he feels the way LV has valued his car has left him in the position that he 
cant buy a like for like car. Mr W highlighted that he feels cars like his sell for more than he 
has been offered, and he highlights the car was in excellent condition with a full-service 
history amongst other things which he doesnt feel has been reflected in the valuation.
But, as our investigator explained, this service has an established approach to how it looks 
at valuation cases. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I 
consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the 
circumstances. But I must highlight that it isnt the role of this service to come to an exact 
valuation for a consumers car, we just look to ensure that the insurer has acted reasonably 
and made a fair market value offer. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised. The condition of the car at the time of the 
incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a 
business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr W doesnt agree with the offer LV has made and he has provided some adverts in 
support of his position. He has highlighted that his car had a full-service history and was in 
excellent condition. However, the trade guide valuations work on the basis that a car is in a 
good roadworthy condition so the additional points he has raised wouldnt add to the overall 
value of his car. In fact, the guide prices provided work on the basis that his car is in really 
good condition and provide a valuation on that basis.
I have looked at the trade guide valuations and some advertisements myself. And having 
done so I cant conclude LVs offer is unreasonable. It used an average of the trade guides 
in deciding a fair market value which it increased during negotiation with Mr W. As the 
amount offered is just short of some of the advert prices Mr W has provided (which I would 
expect to be bargained down during negotiations) I cant say LV has acted unreasonably. 
Ultimately, valuing second hand cars is far from an exact science and as LV has provided a 
valuation in line with the guides I think it has acted fairly. So, Im satisfied LV has looked to 
value Mr Ws car in a fair and reasonable way and looked to pay him the market value of his 
car in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I know Mr W has also questioned why he has had to pay an excess. But all motor insurance 
policies have an excess which is due when a claim is made so LV hasnt acted unreasonably 
here. And as this is a fault claim (as the insurer cant claim its costs back) Mr W cant claim 
this back from a third party. 
Finally, I understand Mr W is unhappy with the service LV provided and I can understand 
why. But a lot of the difficulties encountered have stemmed from the fact that Mr W wouldnt 
accept the market value offered. But as LVs offer was fair I cant hold it responsible for all of 
the poor service. However, I can see that it paid £50 compensation for some delay and that 
seems fair. Generally this services compensation awards are modest, and LVs offer is in 
line with what I wouldve awarded so Im not asking LV to do anymore here.
Mr Ws representative has also asked about the handover of his old car (the salvage) and 
said that Mr W would like the cheque from LV in his hand before handing over his car. I can 
understand this and Im sure LV will agree to this once everything is finalised. And on a 
separate note if Mr W wanted to retain his vehicle he can discuss this with LV who would 
look to retain the salvage costs if he wanted to take this path.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman