DRN-3114141
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the support and service offered by Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as 
Barclaycard when he experienced financial difficulty and, ultimately, the recording of a 
default.  
As a resolution to his complaint, Mr H wants the decision to record a default reversed, an 
apology letter and financial compensation from Barclays. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr H and Barclays. I wont repeat 
what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons 
for reaching the outcome I have.
In summary, Mr H got into financial difficulty during the COVID-19 pandemic and became 
unemployed. Hes told us his income greatly reduced and he was dependant on universal 
credit. In April 2020, Barclays approved Mr Hs request for a three-month COVID-19 
payment deferral. This was later extended by a further three months at Mr Hs request  
ending in September 2020. Barclays later asked Mr H to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment when he made enquiries about further support.
Around November 2020 Barclays agreed to a temporary suspension of interest and charges 
on the account to allow Mr H time to speak to a third-party about his financial situation. In 
December 2020, Mr H spoke to Barclays to enquire about a payment suspension. This 
request was declined, but instead an informal arrangement was offered. Shortly afterwards, 
Barclays sent Mr H a letter notifying him that he had until 17 February 2021 to bring his 
account into good standing and clear arrears, or a default may be recorded. On 17 February, 
Barclays say a default was recorded on the account. 
Mr H made a complaint to Barclays. Aside from the support offered and the later default 
being recorded, he was unhappy with what he feels was harassment from Barclays at a time 
when he was trying to find employment. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint and Mr H referred it to our Service for an independent 
review. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, Mr H remained 
unhappy  so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
My decision wont address Mr Hs complaint point about Barclays actions in selling the debt 
owed. This is because this issue wasnt addressed in Barclays final response letter. Under 
the relevant rules, the financial business has to be given an opportunity to address a 
complaint point before our Service can formally investigate that point. Should Mr H remain 
unhappy about this point, he has the option of raising a new complaint with Barclays.
Mr H has also referred extensively to support offered or actions taken by other businesses. 
My decision only considers the actions of Barclays here and the impact of those actions on 
Mr H.
Finally, Mr H has made reference to pre-pandemic support and how the world has changed. 
When coming to my decision Ive kept in mind the expectations on financial businesses both 
before and during the pandemic. In particular, the relevant guidance issued by The Financial 
Conduct Authority (The FCA). 
The payment deferrals
Based on what Ive seen, the decision to agree to the initial COVID-19 payment deferral 
when requested by Mr H was a positive and supportive decision by Barclays. Mr H had 
experienced a change in his financial circumstances and the initial three-month deferral was 
intended to allow him some time and space to get back to normal.
Mr H then made a request to extend the payment deferral by a further three months  which 
Barclays approved. Ive found no evidence to conclude that this also wasnt a positive and 
supportive decision by Barclays. I say this because, although interest would continue to 
accrue on the outstanding balance during the payment deferral, Mr H remained out of work 
at that point and his income (and repayment sources) were very limited. 
The support offered after the payment deferrals ended 
Mr H contacted Barclays around the end of October 2020 to request further support as he 
was still out of work and had exhausted the payment deferral option. 
Barclays completed an income and expenditure assessment - which was a positive step, as 
it would give an up to date picture of Mr Hs financial circumstances. This assessment 
concluded that Mr Hs outgoings were greater than his income. At this point the options for 
Mr H were quite limited, but it was positive and supportive of Barclays to suspend interest 
and charges on the account for 30 days to allow Mr H additional time to discuss his 
circumstances with a third-party charity. This also allowed Mr H extra time to find 
employment.
After this 30-day period ended, Mr H got in touch with Barclays to discuss a recent review of 
his financial situation hed completed with the third-party charity and to request a temporary  
suspension of his account. It seems Barclays either hadnt received or reviewed the 
documents in question at that point. Barclays notes also reflect that a conversation took 
place about Mr Hs circumstances and that they hadnt changed.
At this point Barclays offered Mr H an informal arrangement to bring his account back into 
good standing by February 2021 - but this wasnt the support that Mr H wanted. A default 
notice was issued shortly afterwards.
I appreciate that this was a very difficult time for Mr H. But I dont find that Barclays have 
done anything wrong in taking the actions that they have. I say this because its clear from 
the income and expenditure assessments completed by Barclays and subsequently by the 
third-party charity, that Mr H had more outgoings that he had coming in and - crucially, no solid indication (in November or December 2021) that there was likely to be a positive 
improvement in his financial circumstances in the near future. Mr H has since told us hes 
returned to work, but this wasnt until June 2021.
Barclays had a responsibility to consider what was in Mr Hs best interests when offering him 
appropriate support. Im satisfied that they have done this. I accept that the third-party 
charity proposed a different course of action, but Im only considering Barclays actions here. 
Barclays werent under any obligation to accept the recommendations or suggestions of the 
third-party.
In my opinion, the downturn in Mr Hs financial circumstances had (understandably) been 
ongoing for some time and there was no reasonable indication that this was due to change 
in the near future. 
Therefore, there was no reasonable prospect of Mr H being able to clear his arrears or 
maintain his minimum contractual repayments moving forward. This is particularly relevant 
as Mr H has told us that he didnt restart his employment until June 2021. On balance, even 
if Barclays had chosen to agree to Mr Hs proposal, theres no evidence Ive seen that 
supports hed have been in a position to resume his contractual repayments in the near 
future or wouldve avoided the end result still being a default. 
Ive kept in mind that generally a lender will only have to give a minimum of 14 days to a 
customer before a default will be recorded, but Barclays gave Mr H the best part of two 
months  which again supports that Barclays tried to give Mr H as much time and support as 
could be reasonably expected.
Although the pre-default notice gave Mr H until 17 February to bring the account into good 
standing, Im satisfied that he hasnt lost out by Barclays action of recording backdating the 
default to December 2020. I say this because it means the default will come off Mr Hs credit 
record earlier. 
I understand Mr Hs argument about the impact a default has on his employability  and Im 
very sorry to hear that. But in my decision Im considering the actions of Barclays and 
conclude - on balance, that they have treated Mr H fairly and reasonably when he 
experienced financial difficulty and ultimately recording and reporting a default on this 
account. Barclays have a responsibility to report data that accurately reflects the status of a 
customers account to the relevant credit reference agencies. 
The service received
Mr H has referred to being unhappy with the service he received from Barclays. I wont 
comment on each interaction Mr H had with Barclays, but I have considered the overall 
service provided. 
I understand that this was a very difficult time for Mr H and he was suffering mentally from 
the impact of his financial circumstances, whilst also trying to find work. Ive seen no 
supporting evidence that Mr H was bombarded by calls, texts or emails from Barclays as 
hes described. In this type of situation, generally, there might be an increase in 
communication from the financial business as they try to make the customer aware of the 
seriousness of the situation and try to find an alternative way forward. 
Its clear that some of the telephone conversations Mr H had with Barclays werent as 
productive as Mr H wouldve hoped for. In particular, the phone calls in December 2020. Its 
disappointing that Barclays have been unable to provide call recordings that would allow me to hear what was actually discussed. In the absence of call recordings, Ive had to compare 
what Mr H says was discussed with Barclays call notes.
In short, the call note (22 December 2020) suggests that the adviser didnt get an 
opportunity to fully explain everything and this potentially explains why Mr Hs recollections 
of the call differs. In their final response letter Barclays acknowledged this call couldve been 
better. 
In another call note its recorded that Mr H queried if Barclays had received paperwork he 
sent them  but they hadnt at that point and Barclays offered an informal arrangement 
rather than the payment suspension that Mr H wanted. 
I can understand how these calls will have caused Mr H frustration and annoyance. Mr H 
wanted additional support that Barclays werent agreeable to and he was dealing with the 
impact of his difficult financial situation at that time. But ultimately  as Ive already found, the 
support offered by Barclays and later actions taken by them were fair and reasonable 
overall. I can understand from Mr Hs perspective that receiving the default notice a few days 
afterwards may have felt unexpected - but I havent found that Barclays acted unfairly in 
doing do. 
Even if things couldve been explained better in the call, Ive seen a copy of the default 
notice sent to Mr H dated 15 December 2020 and Im satisfied it clearly outlines what would 
happen next if the account wasnt brought into good standing by 17 February 2021. 
In summary, Ive not found the service provided by Barclays to be poor to the extent that 
compensation is warranted or appropriate here. And, as already explained, Im satisfied that 
Barclays taking the actions theyve done  in ultimately recording a default - was fair and 
reasonable in Mr Hs circumstances. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr H, but it brings to an end what our Service - in trying to 
informally resolve his dispute with Barclays, can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman