DRN-2318561
The complaint
The estate of Mr Fs complaint is about the compensation offered by Santander UK Plc, 
trading then as Abbey, for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies to 
Mr F on three personal loans.
What happened
The complaint concerns the single premium PPI policies attached to the following unsecured 
loans that Mr F took out with Santander:
Loan ending 8616 (loan 1)
Loan ending 8317 (loan 2)
Loan ending 8082 (loan 3)
Santander accepted that the PPI policies attached to these loans had been mis-sold. It 
offered compensation totalling £543.14 in respect of these mis-sales.
The estate of Mr F wasnt satisfied that Santander had adequately demonstrated that the 
compensation it had offered for the mis-sale of the PPI had been calculated correctly. So it 
referred the complaint to this service.
Having investigated the complaint, our adjudicator thought that the total compensation 
offered by Santander was fair. 
The estate of Mr F wasnt happy with the adjudicators view. It thought the way the 
compensation offer had been calculated still hadnt been adequately explained. And it didnt 
agree that it was fair for Santander to offset in full the compensation otherwise payable in 
respect of the PPI policy attached to loan 3, simply because there had been a successful 
claim made on that policy by Mr F for a larger amount. It also thought that the additional cost 
of the PPI policies added to the loans had been a cause of Mr F not keeping up with 
payments on the loans and incurring additional costs as a result of this. So it felt that the 
compensation offered should have taken account of these additional costs.
Finally, the estate of Mr F thought that Santander should offer compensation for the 
unsatisfactory way it had dealt with the complaint.
As the estate of Mr F didnt agree with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has upheld this mis-sale complaint in relation to the PPI sold with all three of 
these loans. So, in this decision, I wont be looking at how the policies came to be sold. Ill 
only be looking at whether what Santander has offered as total compensation for these mis-
sales is fair.
Santander has provided this service with details of how it calculated the compensation its 
offered on the PPI attached to each of these loans. Ive carefully reviewed these calculations 
and have concluded that they are in line with how this service would expect them to have 
been carried out in the given circumstances of this case. Ill now explain why I have come to 
this conclusion in respect of each of these PPI policies.
Loan 1
The single premium PPI policy attached to this 24-month loan commenced in August 2002 
and ended when the loan was repaid in full at the end of its term in September 2004. The 
loan agreement shows that Mr F made payments totalling £146.40 for the PPI (including 
interest). Santander has offered to repay this amount, together with simple interest of 
£194.72 at 8% (after deduction of tax of £38.94) for the time Mr F or his estate were out of 
pocket because of these PPI payments.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the offer of £302.18 Santander has made in 
respect of this PPI policy is fair.
Loan 2
The single premium PPI policy attached to this 60-month loan commenced in January 2002. 
The premium cost £217.20 (including interest). The policy ended early, when this loan was 
repaid by loan 3 (over 60 months) taken out by Mr F in July 2005. 
Santander says its records show that Mr F made 5 repayments on loan two, with £45.25 
(including interest) relating to the PPI policy. As the PPI policy was cancelled early, Mr F 
received a rebate at the time of £98.46 (including interest) for the unused period of cover. 
But because a pro-rata rebate wasnt given, this meant that a sum of £73.49 (including 
interest) was added to loan 3 in relation to this PPI policy, where it attracted further 
additional interest of £12.21.
Santander says its records show that Mr F made 44 payments in respect of loan 3. So this 
means that Mr F paid a total of £62.85 (including interest) in respect of the PPI on his earlier 
loan. When loan 3 was eventually settled in full, £22.01 (including interest) of this settlement 
payment related to the PPI on Mr Fs earlier loan.
Santanders offer of £240.96 (after deduction of tax of £27.71) in respect to the PPI on loan 2 
comprises:
The £45.25 in payments Mr F made on loan 2 for the PPI on loan 2.
The £62.85 in payments Mr F made for the PPI on loan 2 carried forward and made for 
loan 3.
The residual £22.01 which was paid in respect of the PPI on loan 2 when loan 3 was 
paid off in full.
£110.85 (net of tax) in simple interest at 8%, for the period that the above payments left 
Mr F or his estate out of pocket. 
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the offer Santander has made in respect of this 
PPI policy is fair.
Loan 3The single premium PPI policy attached to this 60-month loan commenced in July 2005. By 
the time this loan was eventually paid off if full, Santander says that its records show that 
Mr F or his estate had paid a total of £2,940.21 (including interest) for the policy. It also says 
that there was a shortfall of £582.11 in the rebate applied to loan 3 when it was paid off in 
full. It applied simple interest totalling £2,631.23 at 8% to these amounts, in the standard 
way, to give a total gross compensation offer of £6,153.55. But because Mr F had received 
the greater amount of £7,939.59 as a result of making a successful claim on the policy, it 
made no offer of compensation to the Estate of Mr F in respect of this mis-sale.
Ive reviewed Santanders calculation of the gross compensation payable for this mis-sale 
and Im satisfied that this is fair.
I also think its fair for Santander to have taken into account the payment Mr F received on 
his claim in determining that no overall compensation is due on this mis-sale. I say this 
because this service considers it fair for a business, as far as is possible, to put a consumer 
back in the financial position they would have been in if the sale hadnt taken place. In this 
case, if the mis-sale hadnt happened then Mr F wouldnt have incurred a cost of £6,153.55 
(including simple interest). But he also wouldnt have been able to make his claim on the 
policy for which he received £7,939.59. So I dont think it would be fair to conclude that Mr F 
has lost out from being mis-sold this policy.
Ive thought carefully about what the representative of Mr Fs estate has said about the 
additional costs Mr F incurred on his loans having been partly caused by the PPI premiums 
added to these loans. But I dont think it would be fair to conclude that the main cause of any 
loan defaults, and the resultant additional costs Mr F may have incurred, was down to the 
inclusion of these premiums on his loans. In any event, from what I can see, the loan where 
Mr F is most likely to have incurred these additional costs is on loan 3. And given that the 
claim payments Mr F received on this loan exceeded the cost of the PPI he was charged on 
this loan by £1,786.04 (even after the application of simple interest to the payments made), I 
dont think its likely that Mr F would have lost out because of any additional costs he 
incurred. 
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied its fair that Santander didnt make an offer of 
compensation in respect of this PPI policy.
Finally, Ive thought about what the representative of Mr Fs estate has said about the 
unsatisfactory way in which Santander has dealt with this complaint. Santander has now 
agreed to offer an ex gratia payment of £100 in relation to this. It has also agreed to bring 
the offer it has already made up to date. And I think this is fair in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I think the offer which Santander UK Plc has now made is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman