DRN-3537807
The complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc havent paid her claim for lost luggage when 
she claimed on her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs H was returning home from a holiday abroad. When her plane landed back in the UK, 
she was told that her luggage had been put onto a different flight and would be delivered to 
her home address. Mrs H had three suitcases but only two were delivered back to her, so 
she claimed on her policy for the missing suitcase and contents. 
AXA reviewed the claim and said they would need confirmation from the airline that the 
suitcase had been permanently lost. Mrs H tried to obtain this from the airline but 
unfortunately wasnt getting a response from them. AXA then contacted the airline but also 
didnt get a response so didnt pay Mrs Hs claim. Mrs H complained to AXA about the claim 
not being paid. AXA said without conformation from the airline the suitcase was lost they 
wouldnt pay her claim. Unhappy with AXAs response, she referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found Mrs H 
had provided her luggage claim reference, and also had an e-mail from the airline with a 
suitcase it thought might be hers but wasnt. Mrs H also provided evidence shed tried to get 
the information AXA wanted but hadnt received a response. Because of this she 
recommended AXA pays Mrs Hs claim as she thought it most likely the suitcase was 
permanently lost. 
AXA accepted our investigators recommendations and said they would settle Mrs Hs claim. 
However, Mrs H hasnt heard anything from AXA since and theyve also not responded to 
our investigator. Mrs H therefore asked for an ombudsman to decide her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA have agreed to settle Mrs Hs claim I see no reason to revisit the reason they didnt 
settle it originally. AXA therefore need to pay Mrs Hs claim, minus any applicable policy 
excess. AXA should also add 8% simple interest per year to this amount to compensate her 
for not having the money. This should be calculated from the date of claim until the date AXA 
make settlement. 
However, I have considered the impact the delay in settling Miss Hs claim has had. 
Mrs H has said due to the length of time the claim has taken and not having her clothes has 
caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Particularly as the UK had been 
experiencing good weather not long after her luggage was lost, and she didnt have her 
summer clothes to wear.
I can also see this claim has been ongoing for over two years, so I can appreciate this has 
been extremely inconvenient for Mrs H. Shes also spent time chasing AXA to try and get her 
claim settled. Therefore, to compensate her for this unnecessary inconvenience AXA should 
pay her an additional £250 for the unnecessary delays in dealing with her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs Hs claim, minus any applicable policy excess. 8% simple 
interest per year needs to be added to what AXA Insurance Plc pay, calculated from the date 
of claim until the date its settled. AXA Insurance UK Plc also need to pay Mrs H £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman