DRN-2585302
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Aldermore Bank Plc unfairly asked them to pay for a second 
valuation after closing their mortgage application. They ask for an apology and a fees refund.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs E applied to Aldermore, via a broker, to re-mortgage and 
consolidate debt. On the recommendation of the valuer Aldermore said it wouldnt proceed 
until work was completed on the property. Mr and Mrs E carried out the work, but this was 
delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In June 2020 Aldermore said the application had 
expired and a new valuation was needed.  
Mr and Mrs E say the work to the property wasnt needed. They say Aldermore caused 
additional stress at a difficult time and they incurred interest costs on the debt they wanted to 
consolidate. Mr and Mrs E re-mortgaged with another lender.
Our investigator said Aldermore was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer. If Mr 
and Mrs E didnt want to carry out the work to their property they could have applied to 
another lender. As Aldermore didnt get a response from the broker for more than two 
months it closed the application. The investigator said Aldermore was entitled to ask for a 
new valuation, and it acted fairly by saying it would accept a revaluation fee which was lower 
than for a full valuation.
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree. They asked if Aldermore had explained its deadlines to the 
broker and why the two businesses didnt communicate better. They say they applied 
elsewhere and the re-mortgage was completed in less than six weeks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aldermore needs to assess whether a property is suitable security for a loan. As it doesnt 
have the expertise to value property itself, it appoints a valuer. Id expect Aldermore to 
appoint a suitably qualified person to carry out the valuation. I think it did: it appointed a 
Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
The surveyor said work was needed to the property. This was supported by a specialist 
report. Mr and Mrs E say the work was an unnecessary expense, or could have been carried 
out after the mortgage completed. But I think Aldermore was entitled to rely on the expert 
opinion of the valuer. And it was entitled to decide whether it was prepared to lend before the 
work was done.
Mr and Mrs E say the work to their property was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and 
they couldnt have completed it any sooner. But delays to the work on the property wasnt 
the only reason the application was closed. Aldermore had asked the broker for documents 
related to Mr and Mrs Es income and says it didnt receive a response. 
Aldermore says it usually closes applications if theres no contact for 30 days. It extended 
this due to the pandemic. Aldermore didnt have to keep the application open indefinitely. It 
didnt know if the lack of contact was because Mr and Mrs E didnt want to proceed. In fact, 
the broker was on furlough, but Aldermore didnt know this. Given the time passed, I think it 
was reasonable for Aldermore to close the application. 
Aldermore was able to transfer information previously submitted to a new application from 
Mr and Mrs E. However, it asked for a new valuation. Aldermore is entitled to have criteria 
about when a valuation is too old to rely on for lending purposes. Here, it said the first 
valuation would likely expire before the new application completed. When Mr and Mrs E 
made a complaint about this it agreed to apply a re-valuation fee of £90 (instead of the full 
valuation fee). However, by this point Mr and Mrs E had decided to apply elsewhere.
I understand that Mr and Mrs E found this matter frustrating and stressful. But I think 
Aldermore was entitled to decide whether it was prepared to lend before the work 
recommended by the surveyor was completed, and whether it needed to update the 
valuation. Aldermore wasnt responsible for delays in the information it requested being 
provided to it and the lack of contact from the broker, which resulted in the application 
expiring. 
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Aldermore to refund fees, 
apologise or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs E.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman