DRN-2422411
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), mis-
sold the late Mrs Ds fee-paying Advantage Gold and Select Platinum packaged bank 
accounts. 
The Advantage Gold account was sold in November 2002. Due to the withdrawal of the 
Advantage Gold account, NatWest changed the account to a Select Platinum account in July 
2015.
The estate of Mrs D has complained that the accounts were mis-sold because Mrs D was
not aware that her account had been upgraded in 2002, or that shed have to pay for it. It
also says Mrs D was unaware that her account had been changed to the Select Platinum
account in 2015 as well.
What happened
NatWest said that our service is unable to consider the complaint about the sale of the fee-
paying Advantage Gold account. I issued a decision on 1 December 2020 and concluded 
that our service is unable to consider whether the Advantage Gold account was mis-sold. 
This was because the complaint had been raised outside of the time limits that apply to 
complaints referred to our service. 
Following my decision, one of our adjudicators went on to consider whether NatWest did 
anything wrong when it transferred the late Mrs Ds Advantage Gold account to a Select 
Platinum account. The adjudicator concluded that NatWest had not acted unfairly or 
incorrectly in changing Mrs Ds account.
The estate of Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint has been 
passed back to me for a final decision. 
As Ive already decided that our service cannot look at the complaint about the sale of the 
Advantage Gold account, this decision will only address whether NatWest did anything 
wrong in relation to the migration of the account in 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about the estate of Mrs Ds complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I am unable to uphold the complaint 
about the late Mrs Ds account being changed to a Select Platinum account. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision.
I should start by saying that NatWest didnt sell the late Mrs D a further packaged account in          
July 2015. It chose to withdraw the Advantage Gold account at this stage. And it was entitled 
to do this. So I cant say that NatWest did anything wrong because it decided to withdraw the 
Advantage Gold account.
When NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold account, to ensure accountholders still had 
access to the insurance benefits, it moved all of its customers that had this account on to the 
Select Platinum account. This was because the benefits on the Select Platinum account 
most closely matched the ones that were on the Advantage Gold account. As this wasnt a 
further sale of a packaged account, NatWest didnt need to get the late Mrs Ds agreement 
before making this change. What NatWest needed to do was notify the late Mrs D about the 
upcoming change to her account.
NatWest says that in June 2015, it wrote to all Advantage Gold account holders to say that 
the Advantage Gold account was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and 
that customers would be moved to the Select Platinum account, because it included similar 
benefits. The letter explained that the cost of the account would initially remain the same (at 
£15 per month) before increasing to £16 a month in 2016, to match the existing cost of the 
Select Platinum account.
NatWest has provided a sample of what it says it sent to the late Mrs D, and NatWests 
records show that it held the correct address for the late Mrs D on its records around the 
time the letter was sent. Given this, I think it was likely to have been sent to the late Mrs D, 
and I think it wouldve been received by her. But NatWest hasnt been able to provide 
evidence that the letter was sent to the late Mrs D. So, while I do think its most likely 
NatWest did send a letter, NatWest cant evidence that it did.
Nevertheless, even if I think that NatWest mayve done something wrong  by not sending 
the letter - (which I am not persuaded is the case), I would still need to consider what the late 
Mrs D would most likely have done, had she been told about the account changes.
In this case, I dont think I can say its more likely than not that the late Mrs D wouldve done 
something different if shed received a letter telling her that her account was changing. In 
other words, I dont think its likely the late Mrs D wouldve chosen to remove the Select 
Platinum from her account, had she received the migration letter. 
To explain, the late Mrs D held the Advantage Gold account for many years before the 
account changed. NatWest has provided evidence to show that the late Mrs D was sent 
several letters about the account. These included refresher packs in 2009 and 2010  which 
reminded Mrs D that she was paying a monthly fee for her account and invited her to check 
that the benefits were still suitable for her. 
I can see that NatWest also sent letters informing Mrs D about changes being made to the 
mobile phone and travel insurance in January and November 2013 respectively. These 
letters explained that NatWest offered a range of accounts  both fee-paying and fee-free 
accounts - and said that if the accountholder was unhappy with the changes, they could 
contact NatWest to discuss alternative accounts. NatWest has also provided evidence to 
show that it sent the late Mrs D annual statements of eligibility in January 2014 and 2015 (as 
well as in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019). These reminded Mrs D of the eligibility requirements 
of each benefit and invited Mrs D to check that she still met the qualifying criteria.
Despite being sent all of these letters over a number of years, Mrs D kept her Advantage 
Gold account. As such, I cant reasonably conclude that the late Mrs D was likely to have 
downgraded her account had she received the migration letter  a letter that essentially explained the name of her account was being changed and would eventually cost £1 more 
per month than she was already paying.
Finally, I note that the estate of Mrs D said that Mrs D suffered from a serious medical 
condition, which was diagnosed in October 2015 and sadly led to Mrs D passing away in 
2019. 
Im really sorry to hear about the late Mrs Ds circumstances. And I understand that the 
progressive nature of her illness meant that she mayve been suffering from the condition 
before she received a diagnosis. 
However, for me to find in favour of the estate of Mrs D, I need to find  in relation to the 
migration of the account - that NatWest did something wrong and that had things gone as 
they shouldve, Mrs D wouldve taken a different course of action. But, for the reasons given 
above - and particularly the number of letters sent years before Mrs D was diagnosed with 
her condition - even if I were persuaded that the migration letter was not sent, I cant say that 
Mrs D would necessarily have taken a different course of action had it been received.
As such, I am unable to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to the representatives of Mrs Ds estate. And, for the sake of clarity, I would 
like to highlight that this decision only relates to the changes made to the account in 2015  
and not about what may or may not have happened when the account was initially sold to 
the late Mrs D. As I have already issued a decision that we are not able to look into the initial 
sale due to the rules by which I am bound.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the estate of Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs V 
and the estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman