DRN-2964376
The complaint
Ms H says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. Ms H says that this unaffordable high 
cost lending caused a debt spiral, leading to repeat borrowing. This made her already poor 
financial situation worse. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about eight home collected loans Morses provided to Ms H sometime 
before 2013 and up to May 2019. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think that Morses lent irresponsibly 
for loans 1 to 3. But she thought that it shouldnt have approved loans 4 to 8 as it was clear 
that Ms H was reliant on this type of lending.  
Morses agreed in part with the adjudicators opinion. It agreed that it shouldnt have 
approved loan 4. But it didnt think it lent irresponsibly for loans 5 to 8. It said that the checks 
it did showed that Ms H could afford the loan repayments and they also showed that her 
situation had improved over time. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
loan start datecapital 
amountterm 
(weeks)end date
1 no information about loan provided
2 07/06/13 £600 50 11/07/14
3 27/06/14 £600 50 03/06/15
4 03/06/15 £600 50 02/06/16
5 05/08/16 £1,000 52 25/05/17
6 25/05/17 £1,000 52 31/05/18
7 31/05/18 £1,000 52 30/05/19
8 30/05/19 £1,000 52 11/06/20mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms H accepted our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this, I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And Morses accepted our 
adjudicators opinion that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent. 
So, I wont be looking at loans 1 to 4in detail in this decision. But they were part of the 
borrowing relationship Ms H had with Morses. And they are something I will take into 
account when considering the other loans she took.
Ive included the compensation for loan 4 in my putting things right section below. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 8 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Ms H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this point was reached at loan 
5. I say this because:
Ms H had been indebted to Morses for at least three years, and possibly significantly 
longer. This is a long time to be using high cost credit and indicates to me that Ms H 
had ongoing financial problems. 
The first loan I have information for, loan 2, was for £600. And loan 5 was for £1,000. 
This was a significant increase on the amount borrowed. So Morses ought to have known that Ms H was likely borrowing to meet an ongoing, and probably increasing 
need. 
Right from the start Ms H was provided with a new loan within a few days, or weeks, 
of settling a previous one. There wasnt a significant period when Ms H wasnt 
making repayments to Morses and she sometimes had more than one loan running 
at the same time. 
Because of the above factors, at this point, Morses ought to have realised Ms H was 
not managing to repay her loans sustainably.
And it whilst there may have been some indication of an improvement in her 
circumstances over these loans Ms H was still borrowing relatively high amounts 
without any signs of improvement or reduction in the lending itself. 
And going forward Ms H didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed 
Morses. Loan 8 was taken out at least six years after Ms Hs first. And it was for a 
larger amount. Ms H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Morses over an extended period.
I think that Ms H lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 8 and Morses should put things right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms H from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms H loans 4 to 8.A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms H towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms H the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Hs borrowing for loans 4 to 8 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Hs credit file. If 
Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman