DRN-1494725
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) refused to pay 
a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
Background
Mr Ys car hit a pothole. The next morning he noticed the rear drivers side was lower than 
usual. Some weeks later Mr Y asked a garage to fix his car. It replaced a damaged shock 
absorber. The garage told Mr Y the shock absorber might have been damaged when he hit 
the pothole. Mr Y claimed on his policy. AA turned the claim down. It said it felt the damage 
was probably because of wear and tear rather than an impact. Mr Y didn't agree and brought 
his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ys complaint. She asked AA to instruct an 
independent assessor (IA) to inspect the failed shock absorber. After the IA had reported our 
investigator recommended that AA settle Mr Ys claim and pay him  £150 compensation to 
address his distress and inconvenience. 
AA didn't agree with our investigator's recommendations so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to uphold it.
Both Mr Y and AA have made a number of detailed points. And I've considered everything 
theyve said. But in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key issues.
Mr Ys policy covers him for accidental damage to his car. So it would cover him for damage 
done when hitting a pothole. But his policy specifically excludes damage caused by wear 
and tear. Clearly, AA thought that the shock absorber damage was caused by wear and tear, 
as that was the reason it gave to Mr Y for turning down his claim.
In response to that Mr Y approached his cars manufacturer. The manufacturer told Mr Y that 
the suspension components should have a lifetime of around ten years. But, at the time of 
the incident, according to the IAs report, Mr Ys car was only around three years old. Mr Y 
didn't believe that wear and tear had caused the damage to a car of that age with relatively 
low mileage. 
Given the dispute about the cause of the shock absorbers failure, the IA inspected it. I've 
summarised his key findings below. He said:
We would report that inspection of the dismantled shock absorber has revealed no obvious 
damage to its components or air bag as first thought and suggested by the repairer
Based upon the results of the dismantling and no obvious damage being found, would 
suggest that the shock absorber was not damaged as a result of hitting a pot hole as 
reported, however it does not explain the insured suffering an air leak from the shock 
absorber unless it was coincidental and is attributed to fair wear and tear of the component.
So, on the one hand the IA noticed no obvious damage, which suggested the shock 
absorber wasn't damaged by hitting a pothole. But on the other hand he couldn't explain why 
it had failed unless it was coincidental and is attributed to fair wear and tear of the 
component. But I note the IA didn't say the shock absorber showed signs of wear and tear 
that would cause it to fail. So I don't think he concluded that wear and tear did cause its 
damage. And given the evidence from the cars manufacturer - which I note AA hasn't 
disputed - that such components should last for years longer than happened with Mr Ys car, 
I'm not persuaded that fair wear and tear caused the shock absorber to fail. So I don't think 
AAs done enough to show that the wear and tear exclusion applies. It follows that I don't 
think its fair for AA to apply that exclusion to turn down Mr Ys claim. And as Mr Y noticed 
the problem with the car shorty after hitting the pothole, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not that the two issues are related. That is the car hitting the pothole caused the shock 
absorber to fail.
For completeness Ill add that AAs pointed out that Mr Y delayed in reporting the incident to 
it. But Ive also seen that when it was corresponding with him about his claim it accepted that 
the claim was genuine. And it didn't tell Mr Y that his delay in reporting the incident 
contributed to its decision to refuse to pay the claim. So, I don't think its reasonable for it to 
rely on that point now.
It follows that I think AA should settle Mr Ys claim by reimbursing him the cost he incurred in 
fixing his car subject to the deduction of any applicable policy excess. And, to address his 
distress and inconvenience because of the handling of the claim, I think it should pay him 
£150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
settle Mr Ys claim subject to the deduction of any applicable policy excess; and
pay Mr Y £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman