DRN-2847733
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc placed defaults on his credit file in relation to his 
overdrafts, despite offering to make payments towards them. He believes they were 
unsupportive of his circumstances.
What happened
In July 2019, Santander served notice to Mr A to advise that his accounts with them would 
be closed. Once the notice period expired, Santander cancelled Mr As overdraft facilities 
and asked him to repay the amounts owed. These amounts were now regarded as 
unarranged. But Mr A wasnt able to repay the amounts owed in full, so he offered to make 
token payments until such time as his financial situation improved.
Santander said that the amounts offered wouldnt result in the amounts owed being repaid 
within an acceptable time period. They said that any agreed arrangements needed to ensure 
the amounts were cleared within 15 months. They explained that if this wasnt possible, his 
accounts would fall in to default. This would then be recorded on Mr As credit file.
Mr A wasnt happy with Santanders response. He felt they werent being supportive of his 
situation. He didnt want them to record the defaults. So, he complained to Santander. He 
said they werent being supportive, and that the situation was caused by Santanders 
decision to close his accounts.
Santanders decision to close Mr As accounts was the subject of another complaint which 
has been addressed separately.
Santander responded to Mr As complaint regarding the lack of support provided to repay 
unarranged overdrafts on his accounts with them. They didnt agree that they had acted 
incorrectly. They also didnt agree that they shouldnt have recorded the defaults on his 
credit file.
Mr A wasnt happy with Santanders response. So, he asked this service to investigate his 
complaint.
One of our investigators, looked into Mr As complaint. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or acted unfairly. He said that it would be unreasonable to ask 
Santander to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, he asked that his complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santanders decision to close Mr As accounts have been documented separately and are 
familiar to both Santander and Mr A. I dont propose to repeat these as part of my decision 
here. My decision will address Mr As suggestion that Santander were unsupportive and 
unfair in relation to his attempts to negotiate a payment arrangement with them.
Santander issued their notice to close on 3 July 2019 giving Mr A 30 days to make 
alternative arrangements. Once the notice period expired, Santander cancelled the overdraft 
facilities on Mr As accounts. Santander are entitled to do this. Overdraft facilities are 
repayable upon demand. This means Santander can, at any time ask Mr A to repay the full 
overdraft balance. Thats what happened here so I cant reasonably say that Santander were 
at fault.
Santander wrote to Mr A again on 2 August 2019. They said his overdraft facilities had been 
removed. They said that if he didnt repay the amounts owed, it could impact upon his credit 
file. They provided contact details for their collections department so that he could discuss 
the situation. This is what I would expect Santander to do in these circumstances.
Its important to understand that once Santanders notice period expired and the overdraft 
facilities were cancelled, any amounts owed fall due for repayment immediately. In this case 
they werent repaid, so are effectively in arrears and the accounts are in default.
Mr A replied to Santander using their secure message service. He offered to pay a monthly 
amount towards what he owed but said that he didnt have the ability to pay a higher lump 
sum Shortly after this, Mr A referred his complaints to this service. In the meantime, no 
agreement or arrangement was agreed with Santander.
Santander wrote to Mr A on 14 October 2019. They asked him to repay his unarranged 
overdraft. They also asked Mr A to call them if he was unable repay. They said theyd help 
you arrange a repayment plan based upon your personal circumstances. They also 
provided details of other organisations who offer free debt advice. This is what I would 
expect to see here. 
Santander wrote to Mr A again on 21 October 2019. They told him how much he owed and 
asked him to contact them to discuss a repayment plan. They told him that they share 
information about your account with credit reference agencies and this may affect your ability 
to get credit in the future. Once again, I cant see that Santander did anything wrong at this 
point. They kept Mr A fully informed of what could happen.
Ive listened to a recording of a call between Santanders collection department and Mr A 
from 23 October 2019. Mr A told Santander that hed complained to this service and was 
awaiting the outcome. Santander acknowledged this and told Mr A that they would look at 
placing a hold on his accounts in the meantime. Santander continued to try and explain the 
situation, but Mr A appeared to become agitated and accused them of threatening him. I 
havent found any evidence that leads me to conclude that Santander acted in a threatening 
way.
During the call, Mr A told Santander he would be prepared to agree monthly repayments if 
they refunded charges hed incurred. Santander confirmed they could do this if a monthly 
payment arrangement is agreed. But the monthly amount that Mr A offered wasnt 
acceptable to Santander. They said that any payment plan would need to see the debt 
repaid within a 15-month period. I dont see that as an unreasonable requirement.
Santander told Mr A they may accept lower amounts as token payments to ensure that any 
charges were removed and stop further letters and emails. They also said they would need 
to assess Mr As income and expenditure to ensure this was affordable for him. I believe this 
was a sensible approach in these circumstances. But Mr A didnt have the information. He 
told Santander they already knew all his details and they were wasting his time.
Ive also listened to further calls from 31 October 2019. Santander confirmed theyd refund 
charges to Mr As accounts from the point his overdraft facilities were cancelled. They had 
further discussions about setting up a payment arrangement. Mr A confirmed how much he 
could pay but the amounts werent enough for Santander to agree a formal arrangement.
Mr A told Santander theyd agreed to accept his proposal in the previous call. Having 
listened to that call, I dont agree with Mr A here. Santander were clear that any payment arrangement could only extend to a maximum of 15 months and would require his income 
and expenditure to be reviewed.
Santander went on to try and explain Mr As options, but Mr A continued to repeat his 
proposals. Mr A did agree to complete a budget planner during the call. He explained all his 
financial commitments and told Santander he had no income. He told them that his business 
trading levels had fallen. He also said that he didnt have the money to make his mortgage 
payment. So, Santander stopped completing the budget planner. They said they couldnt 
agree to a payment arrangement as they couldnt get comfortable that Mr A could afford the 
payments he proposed. Santander offered to put Mr As account on hold for a further 30 
days so he could review his finances and get free advice. Although Mr A did say he was 
being supported financially by family and friends, I believe this was the right thing for 
Santander to do here. It was clear Mr A couldnt show he had surplus regular income to 
support a payment arrangement of any kind. So, it wouldve been wrong for Santander to 
agree one with him.
Santander did say, although they would continue to be supportive, a default would be 
registered on Mr As credit file. This was because an acceptable formal arrangement couldnt 
be agreed. But Mr A wasnt happy. He told Santander that he wouldnt pay them anything if 
they recorded a default.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7 says that lenders should consider 
consumers in default or in arrears with forbearance and due consideration. Examples of this 
include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest and charges  Santander did 
that here.
Accepting token payments  Santander also offered that here. But Mr A couldnt 
show he could afford to do this.
Lenders should inform the consumer that free debt advice is available and provide 
details - Santander included details in their letters and explained this during the calls.
Lenders shouldnt refuse reasonable affordable repayment proposals  Although Mr 
A offered proposals, he couldnt show that they were affordable or sustainable.
Lenders shouldnt pressure borrowers to make unreasonably large payments  
Santander didnt do that. They recognised Mr As situation here and explained he 
could make token payments as low as £1.
Lenders should take proportionate action against a consumer in arrears or default  I 
believe that Santander acted proportionally throughout. 
I do realise that Mr A will be disappointed, but I cant reasonably say that Santander have 
acted unfairly here. They gave adequate notice before removing his overdraft facilities  
which were repayable upon demand. They explained Mr As options and any potential 
consequences. Mr As accounts defaulted at the point when the overdraft facilities were 
cancelled - he didnt repay what was owed. 
Santander attempted to discuss and agree a payment arrangement. Unfortunately, Mr A 
wasnt able to show he could maintain an acceptable level of regular repayment in a 
sustainable way. Santander said defaults were subsequently registered in January 2020  
six months after their original notice to close. Im satisfied theyve provided Mr A with 
appropriate support and time to allow him to address the situation.
The defaults recorded are an accurate reflection of the situation. Mr As accounts are in 
default and a formal payment arrangement wasnt agreed. In the event that the Mr A does 
ultimately repay the amounts owed, Santander should update the default records to show 
them as satisfied. While this wont remove the defaults from Mr As credit file, it will show that 
hes since repaid them and any prospective lenders will see this.Mr A has told this service that hes continued to make repayments to Santander, despite the 
impact of the current global pandemic. Im pleased that Mr A has managed to do this. But, 
Mr As complaint pre-dates the pandemic. So, I cant reasonably say that this affected the 
events outlined here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman