DRN-3363695
The complaint
Miss M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) lent irresponsibly when 
providing her with a personal loan.
What happened
In November 2020, Miss M applied to NWB online for a loan of £5,250. The application 
details recorded by NWB show the purpose of the loan was to refinance debt. NWB agreed 
to provide the loan over 30 months.
In 2021 Miss M complained to NWB that it had lent to her irresponsibly when she applied for 
the loan. NWB didnt agree and, unhappy with NWBs response, Miss M complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and told Miss M they didnt believe NWB 
had lent irresponsibly. The investigator felt, among other things, that the lending appeared to 
be affordable for her.   
Miss M didnt accept the investigators findings. As the investigator couldnt resolve the 
complaint informally, it was passed to me to review afresh. 
On reviewing the complaint, I believed it should be upheld. I sent my informal findings to 
both parties and gave them the opportunity to respond. Essentially, I felt that NWB had lent 
irresponsibly to Miss M and should put things right for her in line with our usual approach to 
complaints such as this. I also felt NWB should pay Miss M £300 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused her.
NWB agreed to settle the complaint as Id asked. But Miss M wasnt happy, among other 
things, because the amount NWB was looking to pay her was too low and would still leave 
her with outstanding borrowing (with another lender that shed refinanced through).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ive already explained to both parties 
that I believe the lending was unaffordable for Miss M and am pleased that they agree with 
my decision. The parties also agree that NWB should pay Miss M £300 as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused her.
As such I see no need to address in detail in this decision my reasoning for reaching those 
conclusions. Id only confirm to Miss M that I took account of what she told us about her poor 
health around the time of the loan and subsequently  including the letter from her treating 
consultant and also that she felt NWB discriminated against her due to her health by offering 
the loan. As Ive already explained, Im persuaded that NWB shouldnt have offered the loan 
to Miss M and it agrees.   
To put things right, I essentially asked NWB to unwind the loan by removing all interest, fees 
and charges it applied and working out and repaying to her the difference between what she 
would have paid each month without them and what she actually paid. I asked NWB to add 
interest to any amounts she may have overpaid at 8% and update her credit file. This is in 
line with this services approach to complaints such as this. 
Miss Ms questioned whether the redress Ive asked NWB to offer is fair. Specifically, she 
wants NWB to compensate her for the principal amount she borrowed as it should never 
have allowed her to take out the loan.
Ive already explained to Miss M that I dont think it would be fair for me to ask NWB to do 
that. Thats because, despite my finding that the lending was unaffordable for her, shes 
nevertheless had the benefit of the money she borrowed. If she hasnt benefitted from it yet, 
as she argues, then she could potentially benefit from it in future. Ive carefully considered 
what shes said about this, including that shes refinanced the loan and is still repaying that 
new loan. But I remain of the view that NWB need not write off the amount she borrowed.
Miss Ms mentioned reports of cases brought by other consumers weve published on our 
website in support of her request. However, I must carefully consider whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint  each case turns on its own facts.  
It may be that the cases Miss M refers to are those in which, for example, we consider that 
to require the consumer to repay the loan would cause them extreme financial hardship. But 
its by no means typical for us to make such a finding. While I accept this loan was 
unaffordable for Miss M, I havent seen enough evidence to show that repaying it, or the later 
loan, would cause her this level of difficulty. In fact, Miss M told us that, in refinancing the 
loan with another lender, she secured a lower rate of interest than she had with NWB. I cant 
see that she experienced extreme hardship in meeting her monthly payments with NWB and 
Ive no reason to believe meeting the new payments at a lower rate of interest would cause 
her such hardship either.    
With that in mind, and in the absence of any other justification, I dont believe I can fairly ask 
NWB to compensate her for the principal amount she borrowed in the circumstances of this 
case.    
NWBs carried out an approximate redress calculation to help Miss M decide whether to 
accept or reject my suggested  and now final  resolution. NWBs worked this out to be 
around £718. Miss M believes thats too low, although Id ask her to bear in mind that NWBs 
calculation hadnt been finalised and that it had yet to add 8% interest, as it would need to in 
order to comply with this decision.  
If Miss M accepts this decision and remains unhappy with the amount NWB ultimately offers, 
it would be open for her to query that with NWB. To help matters, Id like NWB to provide 
Miss M with a breakdown of how its worked out what it will pay her.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I believe NWB should offer redress in line with our general 
approach to cases such as this. That means I think its fair and reasonable for Miss M to 
repay the principal amount that she borrowed, because she had (or potentially will have) the 
benefit of that lending. But shes paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. So, I think Miss Ms lost out and that NWB should put things right for 
her. NWB should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Miss M should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr M has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, 
then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her with 8% 
simple annual interest calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Miss M to the date the complaints settled. NWB should provide Miss M 
with a breakdown of how its worked that out; and 
b) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file because of the 
loan; plus
c) Pay Miss M £300 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NWB to take off tax from this interest. NWB must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to put things right for Miss M as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman