DRN-2666050
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited recorded incorrect information 
about her and increased her motor insurance premium as a result.
What happened
In July 2020 Admiral received a phone call from someone who said they were Mrs I. The 
caller said that over the preceding few years, Mrs Is car had been damaged in various 
incidents which didnt involve anyone else. No claim was made relating to the alleged 
incidents, but Admiral recorded information about them on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) motor insurance database. This is a central database of incidents 
reported to insurance companies.
Mrs I says the incidents that Admiral was told about didnt happen. She says she didnt make 
the calls, and knew nothing about them until Admiral contacted her in September 2020 to tell 
her that her motor insurance premiums would be increasing.
It seems that the person who phoned Admiral about the alleged incidents was someone who 
Mrs I knows. Hes since spoken to Admiral with Mrs Is permission. Hes explained that it 
was he who made the calls. And Admiral has accepted that the calls werent made by Mrs I. 
But its told her the policy conditions require her to notify it immediately of any incident or 
accident involving her car. Its explained that it records any incident reported to it on the 
CUE, regardless of fault, and regardless of how minor. And its said it cant remove any 
incidents from the database.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Is complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
brief, he said that Admiral shouldnt have logged the information on Mrs Is file, given that it 
had accepted that the phone call wasnt made by Mrs I. So he said Admiral should remove 
the alleged incidents from its database and from the CUE. And he said that it should refund 
any additional premium that shed paid, with interest on the refund. In addition, he said 
Admiral should pay Mrs I £100 to reflect the stress and inconvenience shed experienced as 
a result of Admirals actions.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
This is an unusual case. I should say at the outset that it isnt my role to decide what actually 
happened. Instead, I need to decide whether Admiral treated Mrs I fairly and reasonably, 
based on the information provided. 
I accept that Admiral reports all incidents notified to it  and as its explained, it does so 
regardless of the seriousness of the incident, and no matter whos to blame for it. But in this 
case, Mrs I says the incidents didnt take place. Whats more, the person who told Admiral 
about the alleged incidents has also told it that they didnt actually take place, and that he 
claimed that they did for purposes of his own, which I dont need to go into here.
So its not clear that were any incidents. And even if there were, both Mrs I and the person 
who phoned Admiral, have clearly stated that they didnt involve Mrs I or her car. In these 
circumstances, it seems to me to be unfair of Admiral to insist on keeping the information 
recorded. 
I acknowledge that in response to the investigators view, Admiral commented that Mrs I had 
authorised the person who reported the alleged incidents to speak to it. And it said that this 
suggests Mrs I and the caller know each other. It concludes from this that Mrs I is happy for 
the original caller to speak on her behalf. 
But Mrs Is agreement to the original caller speaking to Admiral came after she learned that 
the alleged incidents had been reported. And she gave that permission in the hope that 
Admiral would agree to remove the information once it had spoken to him. I dont accept that 
this implies that she was happy for him to talk to it before she gave that consent  and still 
less to report incidents which both she and the original caller have told Admiral didnt, in fact, 
take place.
Having thought carefully about what Mrs I and Admiral have told us, I dont think Admiral has 
treated Mrs I fairly.  
Putting things right
To put things right Admiral should:
Remove all information about the alleged incidents from the CUE databases;
Refund to Mrs I all additional premium that she has paid as a result of the information 
being recorded, with 8% simple interest on the refund from the date(s) Mrs I made 
payment until the date the refund is made;
Pay Mrs I £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset shes experienced.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman