DRN-4231129
The complaint
Mr G complains Coverwise Ltd mis-sold him a travel insurance policy, and his claim was 
declined by the insurer as a result. 
What happened
Mr G and his family held an annual travel insurance policy purchased through Coverwise. 
On 17 March 2020, Coverwise sent an email to existing policyholders, advising on Covid-19 
cover. In summary it said trips already booked were covered for necessary and reasonable 
cancellation due to Covid-19. And it said the insurer had extended the cancellation cover to 
include government advice against travel for trips booked before 17 March 2020. It 
confirmed cover for emergency medical expenses, loss of money and baggage would 
remain in force.  
In April 2020, Mr G received an email from Coverwise about renewing his travel insurance. 
Hed held an annual cover policy for the previous year and was provided with a quote for 
renewal. 
Mr G called Coverwise to discuss the renewal. He asked if there would be a difference in the 
premium if he took cover for Europe only and removed the USA. Coverwises agent asked 
Mr G if he had received an email about Coronavirus, which had been sent to all 
policyholders. Mr G said he didnt think hed received it, but expected it would say that claims 
as a result of Covid-19 wouldnt be covered. The agent said that would be the case for trips 
booked after 17 March 2020. But said cover would remain in place for any trips booked 
before 17 March 2020, if the cover was renewed. 
The agent didnt give any more information about Covid-19 in this call and Mr G didnt ask 
any questions about this. And he renewed the policy. 
In August 2020, Mr G and his family travelled abroad. They decided to curtail their trip and 
return to the UK early, as the UK government put self-isolation rules into place for those 
arriving to the UK from certain countries. Mr G and his family would have been required to 
self-isolate for 14 days if they returned on their original dates; and said they would have 
been unable to do this for several reasons. So they returned home early, incurring additional 
travel costs and losing several days of their holiday.
Mr G made a claim for his curtailment costs and the insurer declined it. He complained to 
Coverwise and said hed expected his claim to be covered. He said hed not been sent the 
email of 17 March 2020, so thought the policy had been mis-sold to him. 
Coverwise said itd sent its email to Mr Gs correct email address and there was no evidence 
to suggest this hadnt been delivered. It said the reason for Mr Gs claim was wanting to 
avoid the need to self-isolate on arrival back in the UK. And it said this was not something 
which was detailed within the email sent to policyholders in March 2020. And a claim of that 
nature wasnt covered under Mr Gs original policy or under his renewed policy. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. He said he thought 
Coverwise should pay the cost of his curtailment claim. An investigator here looked into what 
had happened and said they didnt think Coverwise was responsible for Mr Gs claim, as the 
circumstances werent covered. But they thought Mr G should be paid £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Coverwise accepted the investigators view and recommended compensation. However, Mr 
G disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said if Coverwise hadnt 
highlighted the cover for Covid-19, he more than likely would not have renewed the policy. 
And he said he would have cancelled his holiday, losing the £100 deposit.  
So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Coverwise didnt give Mr G advice about whether the policy was suitable for his demands 
and needs. So, the relevant rules and industry guidelines say, in summary, that Coverwise 
had a responsibility to give him enough information about the policy to decide if it was right 
for him. That includes giving him information which was clear, fair and not misleading.
Following the sale of the policy over the phone, Coverwise needed to send Mr G a copy of 
the policy 
documents. And Im satisfied it met this obligation. However, Mr G has concerns that he was 
not provided with enough information about the cover related to Covid-19.
Coverwise has shown Mr G was sent an email as an existing policyholder, on 17 March 
2020, providing information clarifying the cover in place for trips booked prior to this date. 
And it said it has no record of the email being undelivered. However, Mr G told Coverwise 
hed not received the email, so I think its reasonable to expect it should have re-sent the 
information. 
I know Mr G feels strongly that Coverwise mis-sold the policy by not providing a copy of the 
email. And because of this, wants Coverwise to pay the cost of his curtailment claim. So Ive 
gone on to consider what the impact of Coverwise not re-sending this email was. And what I 
think is most likely to have happened, had Coverwise provided a copy. 
In his complaint, Mr G said he thought hed been mis-sold the policy as hed been told about 
the Covid cover during the phone call, but was not sent the email, so he was disadvantaged 
by this. The email confirmed the cover contained within the policy wording would still apply to 
trips booked prior to 17 March 2020. Mr G booked his trip before 17 March 2020, and he 
was told on the call that this would still be covered in relation to Covid-19. So, I dont think he 
was disadvantaged in his particular circumstances, by not having sight of this email, as he 
was still sent the full terms and conditions of the policy. 
The email Coverwise failed to re-send to Mr G didnt advise on any specific or unusual policy 
exclusions or limitations. It was confirmation that the existing cover provided by the policy 
would still stand for claims related to Covid-19, for trips booked before 17 March 2020. As 
such, having been told over the phone that trips already booked would still be covered, I 
dont think there was anything additional in that email which was relevant to the 
circumstances of Mr Gs claim, or that would have led him to making a decision to cancel his 
pre-booked holiday.Whilst I think Coverwise should have provided Mr G with a copy of the email when he asked 
for it, this doesnt automatically mean his policy was mis-sold. Im not sufficiently persuaded, 
had Mr G seen the contents of the 17 March 2020 email, that he would have cancelled his 
holiday pre-booked for August 2020 and wouldnt have renewed his policy. I say this 
because I think Mr G is exercising some benefit of hindsight and Ill explain why. 
When Mr G called Coverwise, he said he wanted to know how much his renewal premium 
would be if he amended the destinations covered. This was before any discussion of Covid-
19, and so I think its reasonable to say Mr G called with an intention to renew his policy. 
And, at that time in April 2020, the governments quarantine rules had not been put in place 
or publicised. So, Mr G couldnt have known he might need cover for cutting a trip short to 
avoid self-isolation requirements in the UK. For these reasons, I dont accept Mr G would 
have cancelled his holiday and not renewed the policy had he been shown the content of the 
March 2020 email. And as such, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold.
However, I am satisfied Coverwise caused Mr G inconvenience in not re-sending a copy of 
its March 2020 email when he said he hadnt received it. And I agree with the investigator 
that Coverwise should pay £150 due to the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a 
result. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Coverwise Ltd to pay Mr G £150 for the overall distress and inconvenience caused, unless it 
has already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman