DRN-1296413
 
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr T are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldn't lend them as much as they 
wanted for a mortgage. They say the mortgage adviser made up lending policy for her 
convenience, and they were discriminated against.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr T met with a HSBC mortgage adviser on 1 March 2019 to discuss a 
remortgage. A follow-up meeting was carried out on 26 March 2019 and at that point the 
mortgage adviser said HSBC wouldn't be able to lend as much as Mrs B and Mr T wanted.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B and Mr T disagreed and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mrs B and Mr T wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what information should be obtained.
I appreciate Mrs B and Mr T feel HSBC treated them unfairly. But it isnt my role to tell 
lenders whether - and how much - to lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use 
their commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role 
is to ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my 
judgement for the banks.
The information Mrs B and Mr T found on HSBC's website is generic information and is 
completely correct; at that time in question HSBC did lend to customers on fixed-term 
contracts that have been employed continuously with the same employer for a minimum of 2 
years and whose past history suggests the current contract is likely to be renewed. But that 
wasn't the issue here. The issue was how HSBC assesses the income of people employed 
in this way and the website is understandably silent about that as its commercially sensitive 
underwriting information.
The lending policy that applied wasn't made up by the mortgage adviser as Mrs B and Mr T 
have claimed; it's HSBCs normal lending criteria for people on fixed-term contracts. As this 
criteria is commercially sensitive were unable to disclose it to Mrs B and Mr T, but Ive seen it and Im satisfied HSBC fairly applied it to the proposal. It follows that Im satisfied HSBC 
didnt act unreasonably in being unwilling to take Mrs B and Mr T's proposal forward.
Mrs B and Mr T have said they told the mortgage adviser about the fixed-term contract in the 
first meeting, whereas the mortgage adviser says that wasn't disclosed until the second 
meeting. When considering any complaint like this, as Mrs B and Mr T are the ones bringing 
the complaint against HSBC, to uphold the complaint Mrs B and Mr Ts version needs to be 
more likely than HSBC's version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say 
Mrs B and Mr T's version (in that they disclosed the fixed-term contract information in the 
first meeting) is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman