DRN-3120460
The complaint
Mr F, through his representative, complains that Loans 2 Go Limited, lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go approved a £1,000 loan for Mr F on 24 August 2019. He was due to repay over 
18 months at just over £228 each month. The total Mr F was due to repay was £4,114.08. 
Loans 2 Go has said that little has been repaid, and the outstanding balance was sold to a  
third party on 19 March 2020. 
After Mr F had complained, Loans 2 Go issued its final response (FRL) in which it did not 
accept that it had lent to him irresponsibly. But it acknowledged that Mr Fs circumstances 
may have changed and so it offered to reduce the interest owing to 50% of the original sum. 
It said to Mr Fs representative:  
as a goodwill gesture we have agreed to offer to reduce the interest on your 
clients loan agreement by 50%. We would then arrange a payment schedule more 
suitable to their current circumstances. This would be as full and final settlement of 
your complaint.
Current Balance £3,705.52. 
Offer reduction £1,245.63.
Balance after offer £2,459.89.
Mr Fs complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman and one of our adjudicators 
looked at it. She thought that the information Loans 2 Go had from Mr F combined with its 
own research into his credit position, did not lead it to think it needed to do more or that Mr F 
was unable to afford the loan. 
Mr Fs representative wrote with partial duplicates of some of the same credit file that our 
adjudicator had looked at (that obtained by Loans 2 Go at the time of the loan approval) and 
gave reasons as to why it disagreed. These are summarised and paraphrased here:
- that Mr Fs declared monthly income of £1,800 and monthly expenditure of £1,060 
meant that Mr F was saying he had a disposable income of £740. Loans 2 Go should 
have verified the income and expenditure and questioned why he needed a loan 
when he had £740 left over each month; and
- Loans 2 Go should have made the right checks to make sure Mr F was able to 
manage the repayments; and
- it accepted that Loans 2 Go had carried out a credit check but its view was that 
Loans 2 Go had not looked at the information correctly; and 
- the loan product was not fit for its purpose.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr F would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr F  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr F. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
- the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. And Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. Ill explain here. 
Mr F had provided a relatively comprehensive list of outgoings which included costs for rent, 
groceries, utility bills, transport, credit commitments (£50) and other regular expenses. These amounted to £1,060 against a declared income of £1,800 a month. I accept that 
I have not seen any document to show that Loans 2 Go carried out a verification of Mr Fs 
income. I have seen a note on Mr Fs account from 24 August 2019 (the loan approval date) 
that all checks passed. So, its possible that this refers to Loans 2 Go being satisfied about 
his income. 
However, despite Mr Fs representatives point, I note that Mr F has not sent us any 
documentation to demonstrate that his income and expenditure figures were other than that 
which he told Loans 2 Go in August 2019. And so, in the absence of anything to the contrary 
that appears to have been the financial circumstances for Mr F at that time. 
And a proportionate check for a relatively modest loan of £1,000 for a new customer over a 
set time warranted a credit search and that is what Loans 2 Go did. I note that Mr Fs 
representative had asked for a Subject Access Review (SAR) and that its partial copies sent 
to us after our adjudicators view show me that it received the same credit search results to 
the ones I have received. The defaults to which it refers were quite old  dating back to 2016 
and 2017. So, although present, were not likely to have caused Loans 2 Go concern when 
Mr Fs disposable monthly income was over £700. The account in arrears was a bank 
account and may have related to an overdraft requiring payment. In any event the checks 
Loans 2 Go carried out were proportionate and as such I do not think it needed to do more. 
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
I note that Loans 2 Go made an offer in its FRL to reduce the interest considerably and so 
I encourage Mr Fs representative to approach it with a view to accepting that offer. I have 
seen from an account note dated 26 May 2021 that Mr F was open to that idea and so he 
may have the same view now.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman