DRN-1562495
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt meet all of the costs to repair his 
car following a claim he made under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr K contacted his insurer, Aviva to say that three weeks before a third party 
vehicle reversed into his car while stationary, causing damage to the front bumper. 
Aviva asked Mr K to send pictures of the damage for it to consider his claim. Mr K sent 
pictures in May 2019  six weeks after the incident. 
Aviva delayed dealing with the claim at this stage and in June 2019 Mr K chased Aviva for 
an update. He said the front bumper had come off as it had been loose since the incident. Mr 
K said hed had to arrange repairs. He wanted Aviva to reimburse him to the cost of 
£1,753.02. These repairs including blending of the paintwork from the bumper to the bonnet 
and both front wings of the car.
Avivas engineer said the incident related repair costs that were covered under the claim 
would have been £480.64 (minus the excess due). So this was the amount Aviva said it 
would pay to meet Mr Ks claim. 
Mr K didnt agree. And he said his garage told him that the engineer later agreed for Aviva to 
reimburse him in full for the repairs. Aviva disputed this. So Mr K complained. 
Aviva paid Mr K £75 compensation for its delay in handling the claim. But it said its decision 
was correct. It offered for an engineer to inspect Mr Ks car. 
Mr K didnt accept Avivas settlement offer and asked us to look at his complaint. He said the 
garage had agreed to carry out the repairs in June based on the estimate it provided in April 
2019 free of charge  on the basis that Mr K would be reimbursed by Aviva and then pay the 
garage. Mr K said the garage was told by Avivas engineer that the repair costs would be 
met. He said its left him in the position of owing the garage and its charging him interest on 
the amount he owes. 
Our investigator explained that Aviva didnt have a recording of the calls between the 
engineer and the garage. But based on its notes and discussions with the engineer, it had 
consistently said that not all repairs were incident related and so the repair costs it would pay 
would be no more than £480.64. 
The investigator thought  on balance  that Mr K had arranged repairs before he contacted 
Aviva to make a claim. He said the invoice says the date of work was on 15 April 2019. He 
didnt think Mr K had given Aviva the opportunity to deal with the claim as it would if hed 
contacted it as soon as the incident had happened  in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr K didnt agree. He said he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K said part of the delay in reporting the incident to Aviva was because he needed to 
report the incident to the police, and he had to do this a second time due to an error in the 
registration details of the third party vehicle. 
The invoice provided by Mr K is dated 15 April 2019 and next to the date it reads date of 
work. The description of the work reads:
carried out repair of front bumper complete and colour blend front bonnet NSF (near 
side front) + OSF (off side front) wing and bonnet.
The invoice gave a price + VAT for the total work. So from the description on the invoice 
provided, it seems the work had already been carried out on 15 April 2019. This was before 
Mr K contacted Aviva to tell it about the incident. As the investigator explained, Mr Ks policy 
with Aviva says he must tell it as soon as an incident occurs. This enables Aviva to arrange 
for an approved repairer to carry out incident related repairs if the claim is approved  and to 
investigate liability for the incident. I dont think the issues Mr K had with reporting the 
incident to the police prevented him from contacting Aviva sooner. So I dont think Aviva is 
responsible for all of the delay.
Mr Ks policy will only cover incident related damage repairs to his car. The engineers view 
from assessing photos provided by Mr K was that the blending repair work to the bonnet and 
wings was more than Aviva would have agreed to, had Mr K followed the claims process by 
contacting Aviva as soon after the incident as possible. The engineer carried out an estimate 
using an industry standard pricing tool which gave a breakdown for parts, paint and labour 
for the incident related damage. This came to £480.64. 
Aviva asked Mr Ks garage in September 2019 to provide a detailed breakdown of their costs 
 and it chased the garage for this information two weeks later but didnt receive a reply. And 
Aviva offered for an engineer to inspect Mr Ks car post repair to consider the matter further. 
So I think Aviva took steps to properly investigate Mr Ks complaint. 
I understand Mr K says the engineer agreed Aviva would cover the repair costs in full. Aviva 
tried to obtain recordings of all the calls but as some were from a business mobile, this 
wasnt possible. However, from its discussions with the engineer and Avivas notes, there 
isnt anything to show that the engineer made this agreement with the garage or Mr K.
I think Aviva is responsible for some delay. It received pictures of Mr Ks car in May 2019 but 
didnt review them until he called a month later chasing for an update. For the delay it 
caused, I think Avivas compensation payment of £75 is fair and in line with awards we give 
for similar circumstances.
I understand Mr K will be disappointed. But based on the information available, I think 
Avivas offer to settle Mr Ks claim is reasonable and in line with the policy. So Im not asking 
it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman