DRN-3558185
The complaint
Miss O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided credit that was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In January 2016 Miss O took out a credit card with Barclaycard. She had an initial account 
limit of £1,500. Between that time and December 2017 Miss Os credit limit was increased 
on three occasions until it was £7,000. 
Miss O says that Barclaycard shouldnt have lent to her. She also says her credit limit 
shouldnt have been increased because she was in a lot of debt at the time and was finding 
it difficult to meet her repayments. Miss O wanted what she had paid in interest and charges 
to be paid back, along with compensation.
Barclaycard reviewed Miss Os complaint and didnt agree that it had lent irresponsibly, so 
Miss O brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that Barclaycard hadnt irresponsibly supplied Miss O with the initial 
credit or the further credit limit increases. 
Miss O disagreed with the investigators findings, so her case has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Os complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. The investigators 
written view was extremely comprehensive, and I have little to add to what he said. 
However, Miss O did raise questions after that view was provided and I will cover these in 
my decision.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, Miss Os borrowing history and her income and expenditure. 
Barclaycard has provided the results of the checks it did when Miss O opened the account. 
I can see from this that Barclaycard saw that Miss O had no County Court Judgements 
(CCJs) or recent defaults. It showed that she had about £2,100 in other unsecured lending at 
the time. Miss O also told Barclaycard that she earned around £28,000, which was around 
£1,900 net a month and she provided a summary of her living costs. These showed that she 
had a monthly disposable income of around £1,343.
Based on this a credit limit of £1,500 appeared affordable and Miss O didnt appear to be 
overindebted. Miss O says that she had an overdraft and a mobile phone agreement that 
was in default. But the overdraft was small (in the region of £250 on a student account) and 
the default isnt reflected in her credit file. So, Im satisfied that the checks Barclaycard 
completed were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an 
unfair lending decision. 
In August 2016 Barclaycard increased Miss Os credit limit by £150 to £1,650. Barclaycard 
says it completed checks each month, including when it increased Miss Os limit. Miss O had 
managed her credit card account well and hadnt missed any repayments. Combined with 
checks it conducted with a credit reference agency which provided a holistic view of Miss Os 
income, living costs and existing commitments, Barclaycard considered the small increase in 
her credit limit to be acceptable. I agree. There was no information available to Barclaycard 
which might have indicated to the contrary and the information Miss O has provided to this 
service about her circumstances at the time supports Barclays position.
In April 2017, Barclaycard increased Miss Os limit from £1,650 to £4,650. It says it did the 
same checks as it had done before and, again, it had no cause for concern. This was a large 
increase and I think at this point Barclaycard should have done more to understand better 
Miss Os financial circumstances by verifying her income and expenditure. But just because I 
think Barclaycard should have done more checks, it doesnt mean that their lending decision 
was necessarily wrong. I have to also look at what Barclaycard would have seen if it had 
done further checks. Only if it was clear that what they would have seen should have 
resulted in a different lending decision would I uphold this complaint.
 
Miss O says that although her finances may have looked relatively healthy at the time, she 
was repaying a family member for other debts  including money she says she had 
borrowed to pay off payday loans. I can see from her bank statements that she was 
transferring money to someone else, but there is no evidence from her bank statements or 
from her credit file to show that she had recently resorted to payday loans or that her 
disposable income was particularly low.
During the period leading up to the credit limit increase Miss O had continued to pay more 
than the minimum repayment each month. Miss O says she was using the card to pay for 
daily living expenses which she says is proof she was not managing her finances well. But 
Miss Os bank statements indicate that after her outgoings via regular direct debits, travel 
and accommodation costs she still had sufficient funds to meet her repayments and was 
able to afford many discretionary purchases without being concerningly overdrawn. She 
wasnt using the credit card to clear other debts and it doesnt seem her debt elsewhere was 
increasing which might indicate difficulty. While Miss O says that Barclaycard should have 
verified her income I havent seen anything to suggest her income had decreased. So, I 
dont think if Barclaycard had done more checks it would have shown that the lending would 
be unsustainable or unaffordable. 
There was a third and final credit limit increase in December 2017. This was from £4,650 to 
£7,000. Again, I think Barclaycard should have done more checks than it did, verifying Miss 
Os income and expenditure. Again, I have looked at what we know of Miss Os 
circumstances at the time. Although her accommodation costs had marginally increased, so had her salary. The rest of her financial commitments were consistent with those seen at the 
point of earlier increases. She was able to comfortably manage her commitments and she 
continued to spend on discretionary items each month  indicating that there were no 
concerns about her being able to afford her commitments. Although Miss O says she didnt 
have much left over each month, this didnt mean she wasnt able to manage her 
commitments. Miss O says that she withdrew £500 in cash on her credit card some months 
before the increase because she needed it to pay her rent. But that facility was legitimately 
available to her and there is nothing else in her records to indicate she wasnt coping 
financially.
Miss O has explained that she had other debts, too, but due to the time that has passed and 
the outcome of other complaints these do not show on her financial records. Although its 
possible this may be the case I can only consider the evidence I have available to me and 
that does not support Miss Os assertion that she was in such financial trouble that Barclays 
should not have lent to her in the way it did. Miss O says that she definitely had a poor credit 
score at the time. But her credit file does not reflect this.
On balance, I dont think Miss O lost out as a result of anything Barclaycard did wrong and I 
do not think Barclaycard needs to compensate Miss O. I know Miss O feels that this is a 
subjective view. I have reviewed all eleven pages of her response to the initial view carefully 
and even where I have not directly responded to each point I can assure Miss O that I have 
reviewed all of the evidence from both parties objectively. While I know that Miss O will be 
disappointed I am not satisfied that I have sufficient evidence to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Os complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard. It 
follows that I do not direct the business to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman