DRN-2394866
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) unfairly closed his account without notice.
What happened
Mr H says BoS says he behaved inappropriately in branch in May 2020 and also says it told 
him it was giving him notice to close his account. He says that didnt happen and that he 
didnt receive any letters from BoS telling him the account would close.
BoS says Mr H behaved inappropriately when he attended its branch on 15 May 2020 and it 
told him it would close his account in 60 days. It also says it wrote to Mr H telling him that 
and that it acted in line with account terms and conditions.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought BoS was entitled to close an account without notice but had given Mr H 60 days 
notice. The investigator also thought BoS had sent Mr H account closing letters and also 
hadnt made a mistake.
Mr H disputes he received the notice or letters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that BoS has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and hasnt made a mistake.
Ive looked at Mr Hs account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that BoS can close an 
account immediately in certain circumstances, and by giving 60 days notice in other 
circumstances.
I think on balance it likely something took place in branch on 15 May 2020 and also think 
that BoS could have closed Mr Hs account without notice if it considered Mr H behaved 
inappropriately towards its staff. I think it likely BoS told Mr H in branch it was closing the 
account as I think it unlikely it would have made a record of that if that wasnt the correct 
position. In any event Im satisfied having looked at BoSs records that two letters were sent 
to Mr H telling him his account was closing in 60 days. I appreciate Mr H says he didnt 
receive them, but I cant fairly hold BoS responsible for that as it isnt responsible for the safe 
delivery of mail.
Overall, Im satisfied it up to BoS when exercising its commercial judgement to decide if it 
wishes to continue a banking relationship in these circumstances. I dont find it made a 
mistake or acted unfairly and so I cant fairly order it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman