DRN-3949326
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr K was looking to borrow some money and so filled in his details on a 
loan comparison website. He was then contacted by a loan company, who told him he had 
been approved for a loan with them. The loan company told Mr K he needed to make some 
payments upfront before the loan funds would be released to him, so Mr K made two 
payments to the bank details he was given, as set out below:
Date Amount
5 October 2022 £347
5 October 2022 £588
When the loan company kept asking for more payments before the loan funds would be 
released, Mr K became suspicious and reported the payments he had made to HSBC as a 
scam.
HSBC investigated but didnt agree to refund the money Mr K had lost. It said it had 
sufficient fraud prevention measures in place, but that Mr K could have done more to make 
sure the company he was paying was genuine. Mr K wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, 
so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought there were a number of 
things about what had happened that should have caused Mr K concern, so they didnt think 
he had a reasonable basis for belief that the payments he was making were genuine. And so 
they didnt think HSBC should have to refund the money he had lost. Mr K disagreed with 
our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr K fell victim to, in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
HSBC has said Mr K didnt carry out sufficient checks before making the payment, so it 
doesnt think hes entitled to a refund under the CRM code. And while I appreciate he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam, I do think there were a number of things about what was 
happening and what he was being told that should have caused Mr K significant concern.
Mr K was contacted after entering his details on a loan comparison website. But he doesnt 
appear to have done any checks into who this loan company was or whether the people 
contacting him were actually connected to the loan company. And as he was meant to be 
borrowing a significant amount of money from them, I think its reasonable to expect him to 
have done some checks into this.
The correspondence Mr K received from the loan company and the loan agreement he was 
sent to sign both contain a number of grammatical and formatting errors  which I think 
should have caused Mr K some concern.
The loan company said Mr K had to make a payment upfront before the loan could be 
released to him, and they told him he had to pay an additional fee because he didnt have a 
guarantor. But this isnt how a loan would typically work, so I think this should also have 
caused him some concern.
Mr K was also asked to pay the upfront fees into a personal account, rather than into a 
business account. And the name of the account he was told to pay didnt match any of the 
people hed been speaking to, or match the name of the director given on the government 
register of limited companies either. And I think these things should have caused him 
significant concern.
The emails Mr K received from the loan company also asked him to ignore any pop-ups that 
appeared when he tried to make the payment and to not mention anything extra on top of 
what theyd told him to enter. And HSBCs evidence shows Mr K was shown a warning when 
making the payments which said that if someone had told him to mislead HSBC about the 
reason for the payment then it is a scam. So I think this should also have caused him 
significant concern.
I sympathise with the position Mr K has found himself in. But I think there were a number of 
things here which should have caused him concern, and I dont think he did enough to 
satisfy those concerns before making the payments. So I think HSBC has established that 
he made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine.
HSBC has therefore established that one of the exceptions to reimbursement under the 
CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund Mr K all the money he lost.Did HSBC meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr K had a reasonable basis for belief when he made the 
payments, he may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money he lost if HSBC didnt 
meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings 
when it identifies a scam risk.
But these payments werent for what Id consider to be particularly large amounts of money, 
and there had been other payments for similar and larger amounts both into and out of 
Mr Ks account in the previous months. The payments also didnt leave the balance of Mr Ks 
account at a particularly unusual level. And while I appreciate Mr K says these payments are 
significant amounts of money to him, in comparison to the previous activity on his account I 
dont think they will have looked unusual or out of character to HSBC.
So I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have identified a scam risk as a result of these 
payments. And so I dont think HSBC failed to meet its obligations under the CRM code or 
that it should be required to refund any of the money Mr K lost on that basis.
Did HSBC do enough to recover the money Mr K lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
But the information weve received from the bank the payments were sent to shows the 
money was removed before Mr K told HSBC about the scam. So I dont think anything we 
would reasonably have expected HSBC to have done could have recovered the money Mr K 
lost.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman