DRN-3783937
The complaint
Miss R complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) made an error when it 
partially transferred the value of her personal pension plan (PPP) to another pension 
provider. She says that following the partial transfer, the residual fund value remaining in her 
Scottish Widows PPP was about £4,200 less than it shouldve been.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Miss R and Scottish Widows. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
On 20 August 2021, Scottish Widows received Miss Rs instruction to partially 
transfer £164,000 from her PPP to another pension provider. 
On 25 August 2021, Scottish Widows paid a partial transfer value of £164,032.35 
(including interest) to the other pension provider.
On 26 August 2021, Scottish Widows wrote to Miss R to confirm that it had 
completed the partial transfer based on an effective date of 20 August 2021. It 
confirmed that, after the partial transfer had been completed, the residual fund value 
that remained in her PPP was £1,108.80 as at 25 August 2021.
This complaint
Following the partial transfer, Miss R was unhappy about the residual fund value that 
remained in her PPP. This was because she had monitored the value of her PPP online 
between 20 and 25 August 2021. Based on the fund values seen, she expected a residual 
fund value of about £5,300 to remain in her PPP rather than the figure of £1,108.80. As a 
result, she thought it was an error and had suffered a financial loss of about £4,200. So she 
complained to Scottish Widows. To put things right, she asked Scottish Widows to top up her 
PPP by the value of about £4,200 she thought was missing.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. It explained that when processing a 
partial transfer instruction it bases unit values as at the date it received the instruction. So, in 
Miss Rs case, it based the transfer on the unit prices of her PPP as at 20 August 2021, as 
stated in the confirmation letter it issued to her  and that the residual fund value that 
remained in her PPP was correct. It apologised for the delay in responding to this complaint 
and paid her £100 compensation in respect of this.
Miss R didnt accept Scottish Widows response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. While she was satisfied 
that Scottish Widows had processed the transfer in a timely manner and correctly in line with 
the terms and conditions of the PPP, she thought it couldve explained more clearly to               
Miss R that  following receipt of her request  the figures presented online may not be 
correct until the partial transfer had been completed. She thought Scottish Widows couldve 
done a better job of warning and setting Miss Rs expectations in this regard. So she 
recommended that it pay her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this (in 
addition to the £100 compensation it previously paid for the delay in responding to this 
complaint).
Neither Scottish Widows nor Miss R accepted our investigators assessment:
Scottish Widows said that it had processed the partial transfer request in a timely 
manner and that, in line with the terms and conditions of the PPP, correctly 
disinvested as at the date it was received on 20 August 2021. So it was satisfied that 
it had paid the correct partial transfer amount and that the residual fund value of 
£1,108.80 that remained in Miss Rs PPP was also correct. It thought that Miss R 
ought to have realised that, while wating for the partial transfer to be completed, the 
fund values presented online in the intervening period werent accurate.
Miss R still thought that Scottish Widows had made an error and that an incorrect 
residual fund value remaining in her PPP was about £4,200 less than it shouldve 
been. This was on the basis that she could still see the full fund value of her PPP 
online on 24 August 2021 which suggested to her that it remained fully invested at 
that time and that the partial transfer was processed on the morning of the                      
25 August 2021 rather than on 20 August 2021  and so she expected units to be 
sold based on prices as at 25 August 2021.
Our investigator considered the additional comments received from both parties but wasnt 
persuaded to change her opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has 
been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
The terms and conditions for the PPP confirmed that when processing a transfer 
Scottish Widows would base the sale value on the closing unit price of the date it 
received the request. This approach meant that Scottish Widows would be able to 
fulfil Miss Rs request to partially transfer a specific amount of her PPP to another 
pension provider  had the sale price been based on the unit price at the point of 
processing at an unknown date in the future, then there was a risk Scottish Widows 
wouldnt have been able to fulfil the request in a falling market. I think Scottish 
Widows approach to processing Miss Rs partial transfer request was reasonable.
Scottish Widows processed Miss Rs partial transfer request on 25 August 2021. It 
correctly based the transaction on the closing unit prices on 20 August 2021  which 
was the date it received her request. This approach was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the PPP. I think Scottish Widows processed the partial transfer in a 
timely manner.
The only part of Miss Rs PPP that was affected by the movement in fund prices after 
20 August 2021 was the part over and above the £164,000 element earmarked for 
the partial transfer. This is the correct outcome. So Im satisfied that the correct 
partial transfer value was paid to the other pension provider (including an element of 
interest) and that the residual fund value of £1,108.80 that remained in the PPP was the correct amount. As a result, I dont think Miss R suffered a financial loss. But I do 
think shes suffered a loss of expectation, as explained below.
I can understand why Miss R believed that a higher fund value had been used at the 
point her partial transfer request was processed on 25 August 2021. This was 
because it appears the figures presented to her online between 20 and 25 August 
2021 showed that the fund value of her PPP was live and increasing. So to Miss R 
it likely seemed logical that the higher fund value would be used on the date the 
partial transfer was processed. But, as explained above, Scottish Widows correctly 
used the fund value as at 20 August 2021  in effect, the fund value figures 
presented online during the intervening period until 25 August 2021 werent an 
accurate reflection of the true position.
Scottish Widows provided a general risk warning to Miss R about fund values 
fluctuating. Our investigator asked Scottish Widows to provide evidence of the 
information that was specifically presented to Miss R online between 20 and 25 
August 2021 while waiting for the partial transfer to be completed. But it couldnt 
provide this. In the absence of this evidence, I share our investigators view that 
Scottish Widows couldve explained more clearly to Miss R that where a transfer 
request had been submitted, the figures presented online may not be correct until 
such time as it had been completed. Had it provided such an explanation or warning 
then I think Miss Rs expectations wouldve been better managed. As a result, I can 
understand why she was upset and thought (incorrectly) that she had suffered a 
financial loss once the partial transfer had been completed. So I think its fair and 
reasonable to award her compensation in respect of the trouble and upset she 
suffered due to this.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, its my view that Scottish Widows should pay Miss R £100 
compensation, as previously recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Scottish Widows Limited to settle this complaint as Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman