DRN-3646908
The complaint
Mrs B says Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs Bs complaint is about a credit card supplied by Tesco.  She says the card was 
unaffordable and that she had a poor credit record. Mrs B wants the interest and charges 
which were applied to the account refunded.
The account was opened in October 2018 with an initial credit limit of £3200. Tesco says 
that Mrs B stated that she had income of £1700 per month. It says it checked Mrs Bs credit 
file and found no recent adverse data. Tesco says it noted a default on the credit file but that 
this was over 3 years prior to the credit card application. Tesco says that Mrs B passed its 
affordability checks and that she made payments on the account until April 2020.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Tesco had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks, and said that if it had done, these checks would have shown that Mrs 
B wouldnt have been able to make repayments sustainably.
Tesco didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, is set out on this services 
website.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B could 
afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the customers income and expenditure.
There are no set checks that a business has to do, Tesco is free to decide what its lending 
criteria should be. But it has to complete proportionate checks to ensure that the borrowing 
is sustainable.
When Mrs B took out the Tesco credit card, she was given a credit limit of £3200. I think this 
was a significant level of credit to extend to Mrs B, taking into account her financial 
circumstances. So, I dont think this is a case where less detailed affordability checks would 
be reasonable.
Ive looked at the checks which Tesco carried out. The checks on Mrs Bs credit file showed 
that she had defaulted on £99,900 of borrowing around 33 months prior to the application. In 
addition to this, there were other previous defaults. I think the amount of borrowing that Mrs 
B had defaulted on shouldve prompted Tesco to have carried out further checks into Mrs Bs 
financial circumstances to assess whether the lending was affordable for her.
I cant be certain of what any further checks would have shown, because I dont know what 
checks Tesco wouldve undertaken. So, I have to consider the likelihood of reasonable and 
proportionate checks showing that Mrs B could repay the lending sustainably. In order for 
me to do that, I need to look at information that wasnt considered at the time of the 
application.
Based on what Ive seen, it looks as if Mrs B was in payment arrangements for the defaulted 
debts. She was making both nominal and larger payments every month. I think its likely that 
Mrs B wouldve provided income and expenditure details before entering into the payment 
arrangements, and the fact that she was making nominal payments towards most of these 
debts suggests to me that she wasnt in apposition to take on more debt. Because of this, I 
dont think the £3200 credit limit wouldve been affordable for her.
Mrs B was paying around £600 per month towards her active and defaulted debts. This 
amount wasnt taken account of in the affordability assessment that Tesco carried out. If it 
had been, it wouldve significantly reduced Mrs Bs monthly disposable income to a level 
which I think wouldve shown that she was unlikely to be able to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable manner.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the checks carried out by Tesco were 
reasonable and proportionate. Further checks wouldve shown that the lending wasnt 
affordable for Mrs B.
Putting things right
Because I think Tesco lent irresponsibly, Im asking it to refund all interest fees and charges 
applied to Mrs Bs credit card. Tesco should also remove any adverse information relating to 
the account from Mrs Bs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank must:
Rework the credit card balance so that all interest and charges applied from the inception of 
the account onwards are removed.
If an outstanding balance remains after the rework, Tesco should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mrs B
If the rework means there is no outstanding balance, any balance should be treated as 
overpayments which should be given back to Mrs B together with 8% simple interest per 
year on the overpayments from the date they were made to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to the account.
HMRC require Tesco to deduct tax from the refund of interest. Tesco must give Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she askes for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman