DRN-4454689
The complaint
Mr H complains about third party information on his Equifax Limited credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr H has the same first name as his father and grandfather and shares an address history. 
In June 2022, Mr H contacted Equifax after he found entries on his credit file that werent his 
and related to his family members. Mr H raised a complaint. Equifax didnt issue its final 
response in the standard eight week timeframe but sent Mr H confirmation he could refer his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
A final response was issued on 10 May 2023 upholding Mr Hs complaint. Equifax 
apologised for the delay in responding and explained the issue had occurred due to 
similarities between family members names and addresses and the systems it uses to 
generate credit reports. Equifax explained it had applied a Notice of Disassociation which 
had resulted in the third party accounts being removed from Mr Hs credit file. Equifax added 
that its not possible to remove third party electoral roll information from a credit file but 
explained it wouldnt impact how lenders reviewed Mr Hs report. In addition, Equifax 
provided guidance on how Mr H could record a Notice of Correction to his credit file.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
Mr Hs complaint and said Equifax should take steps to manually amend Mr Hs credit file to 
amend the electoral roll data and pay him an increased settlement, totalling £400, for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mr H accepted, but Equifax didnt. Equifax forwarded a 
copy of a lender credit report that showed amendments had been made so that no third 
party accounts were being reported.
Equifax didnt agree an increased settlement was a fair way to resolve Mr Hs complaint and 
asked to appeal. Equifax added that it wasnt possible to amend the electoral roll information 
recorded. As Equifax asked to appeal, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
The investigator asked Equifax to settle by doing two things. The first was to amend the 
electoral roll data recorded on Mr Hs credit file to remove references to third parties of the 
same name. The second was that Equifax should pay an increased settlement totalling £400 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ill look at each issue in turn.
Equifax has provided a copy of the lender report that is seen when a business accesses Mr 
Hs credit file. It shows that, following the Notice of Disassociation Equifax applied, the third 
party accounts from Mr Hs family members have been removed from his credit file. So Im 
satisfied that, at the time of writing, the accounts that were misreported have been removed. 
But Equifax has explained that it cant amend its systems at this time due to the way 
electoral roll information is reported to it.
Ive reviewed the report lenders will see and Im satisfied it only shows accounts that belong 
to Mr H. The report also shows the names of the names of residents living at Mr Hs property 
whore registered on the electoral roll. The names include various entries for people with the 
same first name as Mr H but different middle initials. It also shows the names of other 
individuals who the local authority reports as being registered at the address over the years. 
Equifax has explained this is the standard way it receives information from local authorities 
and that the details recorded on the lenders report are correct and dont impact any 
applications Mr H may make.
I think its fair to say the main issue here that third party accounts have been recorded on Mr 
Hs credit file in error. And Im satisfied that issue has been corrected. But I havent found 
any evidence that shows the way electoral roll information is displayed is wrong or that 
Equifax needs to make changes to amend it. So based on the information Ive seen so far, 
Im not telling Equifax to make any changes to the electoral roll information on Mr Hs report.
With that being said, Mr H quite reasonably raised incorrect information with Equifax back in 
June 2022. It took Equifax almost a year to investigate and correct the mistake. I accept this 
was a systems issue. But I think Mr H should reasonably have expected it to correct errors 
on his credit file without undue delay. And Im not persuaded that the £200 Equifax offered 
fairly reflects the incorrect accounts reported on Mr Hs credit file as well as the delay in 
deleting them, responding or inconvenience caused. So whilst I understand Equifax doesnt 
agree an increased to £400 for the way Mr Hs enquiries have been handled is fair, Im 
satisfied it more reasonably reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Both Mr H and Equifax confirmed they were 
willing to proceed with the settlement I gave in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider and both have confirmed 
theyre willing to proceed I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. I still think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Equifax Limited to settle by paying 
him a total of £400 (less any compensation already paid).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman