DRN-3988296
The complaint
Mr D and Miss F complain that Santander UK Plc caused unnecessary delays in processing 
their mortgage application. Mr D and Miss F say that the service was unacceptable, and they 
had to go to another lender and are paying an extra £146 on their mortgage each month.
What happened
Mr D and Miss F were applying for a mortgage with Santander on a flat they intended buying 
in the spring of 2022. A valuation was carried out in early February that raised a number of 
queries. A mortgage offer was issued on 7 February 2022, valid until 29 July 2022. The offer 
was to facilitate the purchase of a property at £270,000. The loan was for £256,000 based 
on a term of 35 years. The initial interest rate was to be 2.64% fixed until 2 May 2024 
requiring monthly payments of £936.34.
Santander raised a number of queries with Mr D and Miss F that led to a delay in the 
process. Santander said that there was a clause in the lease missing that required a deed of 
variation; then Santander raised an issue that the ground rent was doubling every ten years; 
then Santander wasnt happy with the service charge; then on 13 June Santander said that it 
was happy to proceed but on 14 June decided that it wasnt happy to proceed and was 
declining the mortgage because the excessive service charges made the property 
unsaleable in the view of its valuer.  Mr D and Miss F had to look for a new property. They 
felt they didnt have time to use the existing mortgage offer, went to another lender and 
completed on a new property at the end of September.
Santander agreed that there was poor service and offered as compensation £300 for Mr D 
and Miss Fs distress and inconvenience, £350 for their searches fee on the new property, 
£100 new valuation fee and £400 to cover a deed of variation. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that 
Santander had reasonably concluded that it wasnt prepared to lend on this property but felt 
that it could have come to this conclusion earlier than it did. But our investigator felt that the 
compensation offered by Santander was reasonable. Mr D and Miss F disagreed saying that 
if Santander had acted earlier in declining the mortgage, they could have used the existing 
mortgage offer for another property as it was open until the end of July.  But when they were 
told it was declined in the middle of June, it was too late for them to benefit from an 
amended offer.  Mr D and Miss F then bought another property. The property was agreed on 
20 June 2022 and completed on 30 September 2022. 
My Provisional Decision
As my decision differed from that of our investigator, I issued a Provisional Decision which is 
set out below:
Mr D and Miss F make, in essence, three complaints. Firstly, that their application was 
unfairly refused, secondly that they got confused messages about the application from 
Santander and thirdly that the delay in coming to a decision meant that they lost out on an 
opportunity to buy another property and transfer the mortgage offer to that property. This 
delay meant that they lost out on the more favourable Santander interest rate. 
Santander, following the valuation. had three major issues: escalating ground rent, a missing 
mortgage protection clause and an excessive service charge. It seems that Mr D and Miss F 
and their solicitors tried to fix these problems in order to buy the property. Sometimes it 
appears that the problems were fixed. For instance, on 25 April the Head of Lending 
Services writes to Mr D and Miss F solicitors telling them We are aware and confirm that the 
information regarding Ground Rent has been reviewed by our underwriters. We are happy to 
proceed. But on 10 May 2022 the solicitors are told that the valuer had said  After a 
review of the information provided, I have concluded that the ground rent and service charge 
are likely to adversely affect value and saleability, so the property is not considered suitable 
security for the lender. In other words, Santander wasnt happy to proceed. 
Then on !0 June the valuer said that after a review of the information provided and of recent 
sales evidence, we remain of the view that the ground rent review pattern and service 
charge are likely to adversely affect value and saleability meaning that the property is not 
readily saleable across the market and falls outside of the Banks lending requirements.  
Despite that, Santander then told Mr D and Miss Fs solicitors that it was happy to proceed in 
two separate letters in June before the broker asked for an explanation when Santander on 
14 June confirmed that it was a decline.
A lender engages a valuer to assess whether a property is good security for a loan in case 
the lender defaults. Santanders valuer had concerns which Mr D and Miss F and their 
solicitors attempted to deal with. The valuer enquired about the service charge which was 
over £2,000 per year and concluded that would affect saleability and thats a conclusion that 
the valuer is entitled to make, and Santander is entitled to withdraw the offer in such 
circumstances. I cant fairly uphold that part of the complaint. The question is when 
Santander should have told Mr D and Miss F that it was withdrawing the offer and the 
consequences that flowed from that.
Our investigator concluded that this application could have been declined on 20 April 2022. 
Indeed, I see from the notes that Santanders internal investigation came to the same 
conclusion. At that stage the service charge was known and which the valuer considered 
excessive, and the valuer wasnt going to reach a different conclusion on the saleability of 
the property no matter what further information was received. But the application process 
continued, even to the extent of the solicitors for the applicants being told in June that 
completion could take place although this was never going to happen.
Mr D and Miss F say that if they were told in April that the mortgage had been refused, as 
Santander agrees should have happened, they would then have been able to transfer this 
mortgage offer to another property that they could have bought before the mortgage offer 
expired. I asked Santander if in April Mr D and Miss F had been told that Santander was 
declining the offer on the property, whether it was possible for them to get another offer 
issued on a different property but with the same interest rate. Santander confirmed that it 
was possible as the bank just needed to do a new valuation and produce a new offer on the 
new address if the value of the property and the amount of borrowing were similar. 
So, Mr D and Miss F would have had about three months to source a property, have it 
valued and bought in order to benefit from the offer they had. Mr D and Miss F agreed a 
property on 20 June 2022 and completed on 30 September 2022 which is approximately the 
three-month time period that would have been available had the offer been withdrawn in 
April.  I imagine Mr D and Miss F would have been fairly attractive purchasers to any seller 
given the position they were in. So, I consider it likely that they could have bought a property in the period to the end of July. My view is that by not telling them that the mortgage was 
withdrawn until the middle of June that Santander deprived them of the opportunity to use 
the mortgage offer for another purchase in the time period available. So, I intend upholding 
this part of the complaint and accept that Santander should compensate Mr D and Miss F for 
denying them the opportunity to benefit from the original mortgage offer. 
Mr D and Miss F mortgage offer from Santander was to assist in the purchase of a property 
for £270,000. The loan was for £256,000 based on a term of 35 years. The initial interest 
rate was to be 2.64% fixed until 2 May 2024 requiring monthly payments of £936.34. After 
the offer was withdrawn, Mr D and Miss F bought a new property for £282,500 on 30 
September 2022.. The loan was for £262,000 for a term of 35 years. The interest rate is 
fixed at 3.52% until 30 September 2024. 
As Mr D and Miss F completed early with their new mortgage offer, they will be able to take 
advantage of the full 24 months of their new mortgage product. I have to recognise that Mr D 
and Miss F, if they had begun house hunting again in April would have been unlikely to be 
able to take advantage of the full 24 months of their Santander mortgage product. I believe 
that its reasonable to assume that they could have completed in the middle of July. 
Accepting that, they would have had the benefit of Santanders mortgage product until 2 May 
2024 - a period of about 21.5 months. They were deprived of the benefit of the more 
favourable interest rate for that period. 
So my view is that to put Mr D and Ms F in the position they would have been in if they 
completed with the original mortgage offer, Santander should refund them the difference  
on a balance of £256,000 over 35 years which was what Santander was prepared to loan - 
between their repayments if  the interest rate was 3.52% and the repayments if the interest 
rate was 2.64% over a period of 21.5 months (the period from mid-July 2022 until 2 May 
2024 ). I expect that Santander will want to pay that, subject of course to my final decision, 
by making one payment. Ive looked at whether any interest should be paid in addition as 
some of this will be compensation for payments already made and that normally would 
attract interest at 8%. But some of it will be for payments not yet due so, I dont believe that 
its appropriate to add interest to this.
 
There are other issues I need to address. I believe that the confusing messages from 
Santander and the false hopes built up for several months and indeed up to June must have 
been very distressing for Mr D and Miss F and I believe that an award of £500 for their 
distress and inconvenience more fairly compensates them for that than the £300 offered by 
the bank. 
I note that Santander agreed to pay £350 for new searches fees, £100 new valuation fee 
and £400 to cover the cost of an unnecessary deed of variation. But If Mr D and Miss F were 
to have used Santanders mortgage offer to buy a new property, they would have had to 
expend search fees anyway, so I dont see that Santander should have to pay these nor a 
new valuation fee. As the deed of variation was unnecessary I accept that the cost of this 
should be paid when Santander receives proof of that cost. As Santander has already paid 
£350 for the search fees. £100 for the valuation and £300 for Mr D and Miss Fs distress and 
inconvenience it can credit those payments against any payments that its required to make 
under the terms of this decision. 
I issued my Provisional Decision and invited further submissions from Mr D and Miss F and 
from Santander before coming to my Final Decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Miss F said that my provisional decision was fair and asked for someone to do the 
maths and put a monetary figure on what was proposed. Our investigator replied that if the 
final decision remained the same we would ask Santander to re-work the mortgage in line 
with the outcome.
In its further submission, Santander said that the unsuitability of the original property meant 
that no reasonable lender would have lent on that property even if there were no delays. 
Santander says that it was declining the property not the customers and could have 
considered a different property on the same rate if it had been given the chance and that the 
change in interest rate wasnt Santanders responsibility. I thank Santander for its 
submission. I appreciate that it was the property that was declined, and Mr D and Miss F 
could, had they been given time, looked for another property and transferred the existing 
mortgage offer to that the property. The problem is that Santander didnt give them the time 
that would have been available had it acted quicker on the valuation. 
Its accepted that the property should have been declined in April but in June Santander 
indicated presumably in error that it was about to lend on the property. Santanders failure to 
act decisively in April deprived Mr D and Miss F of the opportunity and in my view the 
likelihood of finding a new property and using the existing mortgage offer to finance it. Thats 
what Mr D and Miss F were deprived of and what I consider they should be compensated 
for. So, Ive looked again at my Provisional Decision, the evidence on the file and the further 
submissions and am satisfied that my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this 
complaint and, on that basis I uphold this complaint. I set out below the payments that 
Santander are required to make as compensation but as I noted above the bank may set 
some payments theyve already made and referred to above as credit against those 
payments. 
Putting things right
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr D and Miss F:
1. £500 for their distress and inconvenience
2. The difference, on a balance of £256,000 with capital and interest repayable over a 
term of 35 years, between their repayments on the current interest rate they are 
paying of 3.52% and the repayments if the interest rate was 2.64% over a period of 
21.5 months.
3. Pay Mr. D and Miss F £400 for their solicitors costs in preparing a deed of variation 
on receipt of an invoice confirming this cost was incurred.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to make the 
payments set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman