DRN-1989535
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly refused to pay his claim under his 
travel policy.
What happened
Mr A had his travel policy through his bank account. He went abroad and a few days before 
his return flight on 25 June 2019, he became ill. He felt unable to fly so he cancelled his 
return flight and bought another, leaving on 27 June.
When he got back to the UK he made a claim to Aviva for the cost of the new flight plus his 
airport car parking charges and some medication costs. Initially it asked him to send in 
documents but then it decided his claim wasnt valid, as he didnt make contact with Aviva 
before deciding to cancel his flight due to his illness. It agreed it shouldnt have asked him to 
send in varying documents, so it paid him £25 compensation.
Mr A wasnt satisfied as he said he was ill, and he felt his claim should be paid. He also 
complained about the confusion Aviva caused about his claim initially. Aviva wouldnt 
change his stance, so he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. Mr A disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Theres no doubt that Mr A was ill and sadly continued to be ill when he returned home from 
his trip. However the policy requires him to contact the medical assistance number who then 
in effect verify his claim at the time, cancel flights and arrange new ones if needed.
It says the following under the heading Abandonment - Special Conditions:
3 - If you need to return home and intend to make a claim under this section, 
you must phone the Medical Emergency Assistance provider if your claim is 
medically related, or the general travel claims helpline as soon as reasonably 
possible.

6 - All claims resulting from injury, illness, quarantine or death must be 
supported by medical reports or a death certificate (or both) indicating the 
necessity to abandon your trip.
It explains the procedure as being the following:
1 - You must phone the Medical Emergency Assistance helpline number 
before you make any arrangements if an illness or injury means that you:
 need to seek emergency medical advice.
An experienced Medical Emergency Assistance co-ordinator will deal with 
your enquiry and make sure that where necessary:
 hospitals are contacted; and/or
 medical fees are guaranteed; and/or
 medical advisers are consulted.
The policy also explains what isnt covered within the abandonment section of cover. 
It says the following:
15 - Any claim which was not authorised by our Medical Emergency 
Assistance provider before you returned home.
The reason this policy, like virtually every other travel policy, has these procedures which the 
policyholder must follow about curtailing the trip or changing the flights due to illness, is so 
that costs can be managed. And more importantly to ensure that there is a legitimate 
medical condition causing the changes in travel plans.
Mr A didnt do any this. So as he didnt follow the procedure laid out in the policy to make his 
claim, it follows that Aviva didnt do anything wrong in refusing to pay it. 
I do understand that Mr A is upset that Aviva was less than clear about whether his claim 
would be valid initially. This meant he had to go to the trouble of producing certificates etc, 
but Aviva acknowledged this and paid him £25 compensation, which I consider is adequate.
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman