DRN-4049480
The complaint
Mr K complains about Nationwide Building Society.
He says that Nationwide mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside 
his mortgage in 1997.
What happened
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint  although it did agree to pay him some redress in 
respect of undisclosed commission.
Unhappy, Mr K brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Adjudicator considered his complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Mr K disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for him, so Ill explain why.
Mr K says that he was persuaded by Nationwide into taking out PPI with his mortgage  and 
that he didnt have a need for the policy. However, Nationwide has provided documents from 
the time of sale that show that the policy was optional  and Mr K chose to take it out. So, I 
think he would have known he didnt have to take out the PPI if he didnt want to.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K  it wasnt a service it provided at the time. 
This means that it didnt provide personalised advice to Mr K. However, it did need to 
provide Mr K with enough information for him to decide if he thought the policy was right for 
him.
Its possible that some of the information Nationwide provided wasnt as clear as it could 
have been  but from the information Ive seen Mr K doesnt appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. And based on what I know about Mr Ks 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better 
information wouldve stopped him buying it.
I do note that Mr K says that he had generous sick pay from his employer  but the policy he 
took only covered him for unemployment. While he has said that his employment was 
secure, this isnt always a guarantee, and I still think that the policy could have provided him 
with useful cover should he have found himself unfortunately unemployed.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ks comments, including what hes said about Nationwide 
upholding his complaint about his personal loan. I dont know why Nationwide opted to repay 
him the PPI he paid for this loan  it decided to do so without a view being made on the 
matter by this Service  but each case is decided on its own merits, and I havent found a 
reason to uphold this complaint. So, this point doesnt change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
I can see that Nationwide had made the appropriate calculations in this matter  and I 
understand that payment has already been made to Mr K. However, if Nationwide is yet to 
make this payment, it should do so without delay.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman