DRN-3609505
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs C have complained about the loss assessing company, Public Loss Adjusting 
Group Ltd (PLA), which they employed to handle a home insurance claim theyd made to 
their property insurer.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs Cs home was damaged by a water leak in 2018 and they made a claim to 
their property insurer. The claim did not initially progress as Mr S and Mrs C had hoped. But 
in 2020 it got back on track and Mr S and Mrs C appointed PLA to assist them.
However, Mr S and Mrs C became concerned that PLA was not properly representing them. 
They raised a number of concerns about the claim to PLA and their insurer. In 
summer 2021, with the claim still not fully resolved, Mr S and Mrs C severed their 
relationship with PLA, ultimately reaching a final settlement for their claim direct with their 
insurer. Mr S and Mrs C complained to us about how PLA had handled their claim. And told 
PLA they wouldnt be paying all of its fee. 
Mr S and Mrs C said PLA had failed to support them in respect of key claim concerns they 
had, which was particularly upsetting for them given the claim history which PLA was aware 
of. It also, they said, had failed to challenge the insurer in these respects even when there 
was persuasive evidence available that could have been used to make the insurer change 
its view. Mr S and Mrs C said PLA had not kept them abreast of changes that were occurring 
with aspects of the claim they thought had been agreed. Particularly that they hadnt had a 
reply to an email sent to PLA on 22 December 2020, or to an email sent to the insurer in 
March 2021 which PLA had been copied into. They said PLA had made inappropriate 
disclosures to the insurer about the state of relations between them (Mr S, Mrs C and PLA). 
Mr S said he had had to put a lot of effort in himself to ensure a satisfactory end to the claim 
was achieved. They noted that PLA had agreed with them that it hadnt communicated with 
them as it shouldve done.
PLA wrote to Mr S and Mrs C. It acknowledged that it could have handled some 
communications with them better. But it didnt think it had failed them in handling the claim or 
that it had shared inappropriate detail with the insurer. It said that Mr S had often, but in its 
view unnecessarily, intervened in the claim process. Overall PLA said that, with a view to 
settling matters, without admitting it was at fault and for a limited period only, it would offer to 
pay Mr S and Mrs C £250 compensation. But it said the outstanding part of its fee would 
have to be paid.  
Our investigator felt PLA had handled things adequately, even chasing the insurer on 
occasion. He felt it had ensured that the claim progressed. He felt its general and email 
communication had been reasonable and that it had interacted appropriately with the 
insurer. So he wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Mr S and Mrs C asked that the 
complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lack of support, challenge and updates on changes
I know Mr S and Mrs C had a difficult period with their insurer in the run up to appointing 
PLA. And I can see why they think PLA could have done more  that if they were handling 
things theyd have done more, which resulted in them trying to do more, trying to do the 
things they thought should be being done. However, one of the reasons they wanted to use 
PLA, I understand, was so they had an insurance expert acting for them; someone who 
knew what was going on, could fight for them when needed and who could deal with the day 
to day stresses and tasks of running a claim. And I think that is what PLA did  but I think 
Mr S and Mrs C, from their perspective as policyholders rather than insurance experts, had a 
different level of expectation about how, within those parameters, PLA would handle things. 
From reviewing what happened I can see that, essentially, PLA was paying attention to the 
claim as it unravelled and, where it felt it was appropriate and necessary for it to do so, it 
supported its clients and challenged the insurer. As our investigator noted there were times 
when PLA put pressure on the insurer to act more quickly, particularly in reference to it 
authorising the accommodation Mr S and Mrs C had found. But equally there were times 
where whilst Mr S and Mrs C thought more should be being done, PLA used its judgement 
and accepted things had to progress as the insurer directed. Particularly in that respect 
I refer to the two main repair issues in question for Mr S and Mrs C  the kitchen and the 
floor tiling in the bathroom.  
The kitchen base units needed to be removed to dry the property. Mr S felt the kitchen was 
so damaged it needed to be fully replaced. And he thought that had been agreed. But in 
November 2020 the insurer said it didnt think the kitchen units were damaged, that they 
could be removed and stored. This was then challenged, or at least questioned and the 
insurer explained it wasnt persuaded the units were so damaged as to warrant a full new 
kitchen. I see PLA advised Mr S and Mrs C of that, careful removal of the units was arranged 
and they were stored off site pending an inspection by the insurer. I know Mr S and Mrs C 
think PLA should have done more to challenge this  that they later got their own reports 
from contractors who said the units couldnt be reinstalled and that PLA didnt use this detail 
to further challenge the insurer. But the insurer had agreed it would review things by 
assessing the units itself. I dont think there was anything PLA could have done to 
reasonably challenge that. It wasnt an unreasonable thing for the insurer to want to do  and 
until it had formed its own view on the condition of the units, it wasnt unreasonable for PLA 
to just allow the issue to progress without further challenge. 
The situation regarding the tiling, in my view, is similar. But actually, in this respect PLA did 
gain evidence to challenge the insurer. Initially it was felt the floor tiling should be removed. 
But in late November work at the property was put on hold because the insurer had said it 
didnt think the floor tiling needed removing. The insurer had told PLA that and it hadnt 
challenged it. However, when Mr S told PLA he didnt think the change of tack was fair, not 
least because the room still smelt damp, PLA, very quickly, took this on board, gathered 
photos and a report showing damp and sent this to the insurer. The insurers stance did then 
change. I know Mr S thinks PLA should never have accepted the amended position and he 
shouldnt have needed to prompt it to challenge things. But I think its likely that it was only 
with newer information  which included an expert opinion that moisture levels were still a 
concern in the room  that the insurer would have been persuaded to change its view.  Ideally, I think PLA should have shared the agreed claim position on repairs  as was 
reached in summer 2020  before work stopped and questions arose in November. 
However, I bear in mind that work was only just starting around the time a halt was called 
and questions arose about the level of work. And as soon as that happened PLA shared the 
detail with Mr S and Mrs C, which then prompted changes to that agreed position to be 
made. So I dont think the claim was particularly negatively affected by this detail not being 
shared earlier. And, even with PLA handling things, Mr S and Mrs C, as the policyholders, 
would always have needed to have had a level of involvement. So whilst I understand that 
they were frustrated by learning of changes that occurred and then having to tell PLA why 
they disagreed with them, it isnt something I think warrants compensation. Nor is it 
something which I think gives grounds for me to say PLA should forego the outstanding part 
of its fee which it has said Mr S and Mrs C should pay.  
Emails not responded to
Mr S and Mrs C say that PLA didnt respond to an email they sent it on 22 December 2020. 
This was about the kitchen. Im satisfied that PLA did reply. But it did that on 
23 December 2020 by forwarding an email it had received from the insurer to Mr S. It did 
that as part of a different email chain. But the content answered the queries raised in the 
22 December email. I think that was a reasonable response from PLA.
Mr S and Mrs C say that PLA didnt respond to an email dated March 2021. I accept that 
PLA did not respond to them in respect of that email. However, the email was not sent to 
PLA, it was sent to the insurer and PLA was only copied into it. I think it is fair to say that 
when someone is copied into an email that is viewed as something which is being shared 
for information only. I think it was reasonable for PLA to not respond to Mr S and Mrs C in 
respect of the email they sent to the insurer in March 2021. 
General communication
PLA has acknowledged that there were some occasions during the claim, now looking back, 
where it could have done more to explain the process and things like its views on evidence 
Mr S had presented. I think that is a fair assessment. But looking back at things often 
provides a clearer and/or different perspective. What I have to think about is whether, in the 
moment in question, PLA should or could reasonably have been expected to do more. And if 
the answer is yes, what impact did its failure to do so have.
PLA notes that whilst it was actively progressing the claim and chasing the insurer a lot 
when it first became involved it took a little while for the claim to really progress. Ive noted 
from PLA that during that time it doesnt seem to have provided many updates to Mr S and 
Mrs C. I think that ideally it would have been progressing the claim and letting them know 
this was being done  even if that was just a quick phone call backed up with an email. That 
would have helped assure Mr S and Mrs C that their long running claim was now moving 
forwards. However, clearly, the main priority was indeed to get things going and I think PLA 
did do that. I think I would be viewing things quite harshly if I criticised it for a few failed 
updates when it clearly was very busy ensuring the claim itself progressed. PLA says, with hindsight, it should have better explained to Mr S and Mrs C that the 
evidence of contractors about the work necessary to reinstate their home would carry little 
weight, that a formal schedule by an expert needed to be agreed. Part of PLAs role was to 
make the claim process easier for Mr S and Mrs C. And I think it was likely clear to PLA quite 
early on that Mr S and Mrs C had strong views of their own about what was needed to 
reinstate their home. I think PLA should reasonably have tried to manage their expectations 
a bit more, perhaps taken extra time to explain to them how it saw the claim progressing and 
what action it would look to take if certain things happened. But Im not convinced it doing so 
would likely have changed the course of things. I think Mr S and Mrs C believed (possibly 
rightly so  I havent seen the final settlement from insurers) that certain work was needed at 
their home and I dont think anything would have persuaded them to wait and see what the 
insurer decided. I think, even if PLA had done more to explain things to them, theyd still 
have gathered their own evidence to try and resolve things more quickly.
PLA also said it could have told Mr S and Mrs C sooner what it thought the insurers reaction 
would be to a settlement value Mr S and Mrs C had proposed, rather than just waiting to 
pass them the insurers decision. I think that was something it should reasonably have done. 
Again that would have been managing their expectations and preparing them for what they 
would likely see as a disappointment. But they would have been just as disappointed hearing 
the warning from PLA as to the likely outcome as they were when the insurers actual reply 
was received. So I dont think PLAs failure in this respect really resulted in them being in 
any worse position.
Inappropriate disclosure
Mr S and Mrs C asked the insurer to see its notes on their claim. Having seen them they felt 
PLA had likely made inappropriate comments to the insurers loss adjuster, because the 
notes recorded the loss adjuster saying relations between PLA and them were tense. PLA 
told Mr S and Mrs C that, in its view, the notes reflected the loss adjusters own assessment 
of how things were. It further explained that, given the timing of the comments, which were 
around the time Mr S and Mrs C ended relations with PLA, that assessment was likely right 
and had probably been formed by the adjuster merely based on what Mr S himself had told 
it. But PLA also said it had a duty to deal transparently with the insurer and, around the time 
the notes appeared in the insurers claim file, it had been feeling increasingly uncomfortable 
with some aspects of the claim. 
Having seen the claim notes, I think PLAs view on them is a fair interpretation of what they 
say. But I also think its fair to say that whether or not PLA actually said to the insurer that 
things were tense, its likely that some of its discussions with the insurer probably at least 
exuded that feeling. PLA has said it didnt agree with some things Mr S was asking it to do, 
so I think it likely must have discussed that with the insurer. It was acting for Mr S and Mrs C, 
but it is right in what it has said  it could only do that based on its judgement of what Mr S 
and Mrs Cs policy entitled them to. 
In any event, however the loss adjuster came to the understanding that relations between 
Mr S and Mrs C werent good, I dont think that affected the claim at all. I dont see that the 
insurer began dealing with things any differently. And I also dont think it meant PLA couldnt 
deal with things appropriately either. It is an unfortunate part of most professions that 
sometimes clients become dissatisfied with services. That doesnt mean that as soon as an 
utterance of dissatisfaction occurs, the professional should withdraw. Sometimes things can 
be worked through and resolved. On other occasions the problem and relationship cant be 
fixed and there comes a point where one or more parties to a contract decide to end things. 
Here Mr S and Mrs C took that option. Im not persuaded that, in this situation, PLA should 
have pre-empted that and looked to withdraw itself. As the insurance expert it would have to 
have had very good reasons for withdrawing its service  especially in a situation, as is the case here, where it knew it had been employed to assist a policyholder with a previously 
troubled and prolonged claim. A bit of concern about some of the things it was being asked 
to do wouldnt have amounted to that. Managing that type of situation is just part of the role it 
takes on when offering its services as loss assessor. Mr S and Mrs C ended their agreement 
with PLA, as the agreement allowed them to. But the agreement also required them to pay a 
fee to PLA, and Ive seen no good reason why PLA shouldnt reasonably expect to receive 
the sum it has asked for in that respect. 
Summary
I know this has all been very difficult for Mr S and Mrs C. Having had a difficult start to their 
claim they thought appointing PLA would mean their claim would then be resolved quickly 
and with little intervention from them. I know they feel that is not what happened. But I think 
PLA did progress things reasonably and in a way that I think was appropriate in the 
circumstances. By and large, Im not convinced it failed Mr S and Mrs C. I do think, as Ive 
said, it probably could have had a few more conversations with them, and been a little 
clearer. But on balance I dont think these issues either caused delays or improper progress 
of the claim, and nor do I think they really caused Mr S and Mrs C more upset, or 
disappointments that would otherwise have been avoided. Nothing Ive seen in PLAs 
handling of this claim and the way it has dealt with Mr S and Mrs C gives me cause to think it 
should fairly have to go without the outstanding fee for its work, or that it should otherwise 
compensate Mr S and Mrs C. So, with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause 
Mr S and Mrs C, I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Public Loss Adjusting 
Group Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman