DRN-2569199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited paid out an unfair amount 
for a claim.
 
What happened
Around August 2020, Mr and Mrs H made a claim under their home insurance policy after 
their car was stolen with some items inside. In particular, Mr and Mrs H wanted to claim for a 
set of golf clubs that they say were secured in their car and were out of sight. The golf clubs 
had been listed as specified items under the policy  so Mrs and Mrs H made sure the policy 
covered the golf clubs in line with its value, which they say was £2,000.
Admiral decided to pay out £1,000. Mr and Mrs H complained as they wanted Admiral to pay 
the full £2,000. Admiral responded that it had acted in line with its terms and conditions, 
which limits claims for items stolen from a motor vehicle to £1,000. Mr and Mrs H disagreed 
saying theyd paid a higher premium to insure the golf clubs at it actual value. So they asked 
this service to review the complaint.
Our investigator decided that Admiral had decided the claim fairly and in line with its terms 
and conditions. As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Admiral acted fairly. I know Mr and Mrs H will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Hs main point of dispute is the fact that they included the golf clubs as specified 
items under their home insurance policy. Specified items are defined by the policy terms as 
high risk items and the policy schedule instructs that any high risk items above the value of 
£1,000 should be included as a specified item. The purpose of this is to make sure that high 
risk items are insured at the correct value.
So, if Mr and Mrs H needed to make a claim for the golf clubs in question  as long as the 
circumstances of the claim met Admirals terms  its likely they wouldve been paid out the 
full value of the golf clubs.
The policy schedule sets out that the cover for the golf clubs included cover away from 
home. The terms of this are set out in section three of the policy terms. This section explains 
the instances where specified items wouldnt be covered for loss or damage. 
The relevant terms explain that theft from an unattended vehicle would only be covered if the 
relevant item is hidden from view, all windows are closed and all doors are locked  in 
essence, the item is left out of sight and secured in a locked vehicle. Mr and Mrs H say that 
the golf clubs were left out of sight and their car was locked  so it seems they satisfy this 
part of the terms.
However, the relevant term also sets out that Admiral will not pay more than £1,000 for any 
theft from a vehicle. So although Mr and Mrs Hs claim appears to qualify, the terms limit the 
pay out to £1,000 in the circumstances during which they experienced the loss of the golf 
clubs.
Mr and Mrs H say this term wasnt made clear to them. However, on the first page of the 
policy schedule it says, This Home Policy Schedule provides important details about your 
policy - it must be read along with the Guide to your Admiral Platinum Home Insurance 
cover. The guide includes specific sections related to specified items - the term Ive 
discussed above is set out in a table and is reasonably prominent. So I dont agree that this 
term was unclear. 
In my opinion, Admiral has applied the terms of the policy fairly when considering this claim. 
So I wont be instructing it to reconsider this claim.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman