DRN-2691482
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined his claim on his contents policy for 
stolen cash. It has declined his claim on the grounds that it cant settle without proof of 
where the cash came from. Mr A is also unhappy about the level of service he received from 
QIC as the claims process took longer than he expected.
  
What happened
 Mr A made a claim for stolen cash on his contents insurance policy in October 2019. He 
states that around £700 was stolen. His contents insurance policy appeared to provide cover 
of up to £500 for lost or stolen cash. 
Mr As claim under his contents insurance policy was declined on the basis that he hadnt 
provided evidence in line with the policy wording. Mr A states that he wouldnt have 
attempted to make a claim if hed known he had to prove he had the cash. He states no one 
told him about this requirement when he first made the claim. He says that the policy 
document he had didnt include this requirement. Mr A also says that if hed known he 
needed to prove where the cash had come from for the claim to be successful, he wouldnt 
have made the claim. Mr A is unhappy that in making a claim that could never be successful 
under the terms of the policy, he will end up with higher future premiums due to trying to 
make a claim.
In their final response, QIC offered Mr A £50 in compensation for the delay in the claims 
process. But it repeated its point that the claim would be declined unless he could prove he 
had the money he reported stolen.
Mr A wasnt happy with this response for the reasons outlined above. So he complained to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think QIC had treated Mr A fairly 
when it rejected his claim. Our investigator didnt comment on the £50 compensation offer 
made by QIC.
QIC didnt respond to our investigator, so Mr As complaint was passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In my first provisional decision, dated 15 January 2021, I said the following:
Mr A didnt receive a perfect service from QIC. It didnt tell him hed need to prove where the 
cash came from when he first made the claim. It took much longer than expected to process 
the claim and didnt keep Mr A informed. It gave Mr A the wrong policy document and 
therefore he didnt have access to the wording in the policy QIC was using to decline his 
claim. 
 
However, the Metropolitan policy Mr A was covered under does require the claimant to prove 
they owned the item they are claiming for, even if that is money. The policy states You must 
provide us with any property, records, documents information or evidence we request. In 
its final response to Mr A, QIC explained that Mr As claim had been declined because not 
enough evidence/details had been provided to support his claim for the stolen cash. That 
letter also said that unless Mr A could prove where the stolen cash had come from then the 
claim must be considered closed. This is a normal requirement for contents policies. I know 
Mr A feels its unfair that QIC needs proof he cant provide before theyll pay the claim. But I 
think QIC acted fairly and reasonably when it declined his claim.
Mr A made his claim in good faith.  Hes concerned that his future premiums will increase 
due to this failed claim. But I think even if hed had the correct policy documents he wouldve 
called QIC to check if he was covered. Suffering any loss and telling your insurers about it is 
usually logged on your record. So even a call to QIC to check whether he was covered is 
quite likely to have left Mr A in the same position hes in now.  So I dont think it would be fair 
to hold QIC responsible for any future premium increase Mr A may get. 
For the poor service, QIC has offered Mr A £50 in compensation for the delay in the claims 
process. I dont know if QIC has already paid this to Mr A or not. However, I dont think the 
compensation QIC has offered is enough. This is because it only covers compensation for a 
4-month delay in the claims process. It doesnt cover the other areas where service was 
poor, or the extended delay Mr A has now had to put up with. So I intend to ask QIC to 
increase its compensation to £300. This covers the distress and lengthy inconvenience it has 
caused Mr A. 
Mr A agreed with my first provisional decision. But QIC disagreed. They said that Mr A had 
been provided with the correct policy documents. They said hed only referred to the wrong 
policy booklet because hed had a previous policy under another type of cover. So they 
asked me to reconsider my findings.
In my second provisional decision, dated 12 February 2021, I said the following:
Neither party has submitted any additional evidence about the declined claim. So I stand by 
my previous provisional decision that QIC did nothing wrong when they declined Mr As 
claim. 
When the complaint first came to my attention, it appeared that Mr A had the wrong policy 
document. And that this was QICs fault. But QIC responded to my provisional decision with 
evidence that Mr A had in fact been given the correct paperwork for his policy. So I need to 
reconsider my assessment of fair compensation.  
QIC was initially prepared to offer Mr A £50 for the four-month delay they caused to the 
claims process. I dont think this is enough. I think that further compensation is required for 
both the additional delays in resolving this complaint and the lack of clear communication 
about the claims process. So Im going to ask QIC to increase its compensation from £50 to 
£150 in total.
Response to my second provisional decision
Neither QIC or Mr A have asked me to consider any further information. So I remain of the 
view I set out in my second provisional decision. 
 
Putting things rightI require QIC Europe Limited to increase its compensation from £50 to £150 in total.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require QIC Europe Limited to pay Mr A a total of £150 in compensation. If QIC Europe 
Limited has already paid £50 in compensation, it can allow for this when it makes the 
compensation payment. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman