DRN-2723056
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mr B says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr B opened a store card account in a shop in 2004. At the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding balance on Mr Bs card each month if 
hed made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. It also included some 
purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he said Mr B 
suffered from asthma when he took the policy out. He wouldn't have been able to make a 
successful accident or sickness claim under the policy if the claim resulted from that 
condition. And the adjudicator thought that if AXA had given Mr B clear enough information 
about the restriction on claims for existing medical conditions, hed have decided not to take 
the PPI.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to AXA on 24 February 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id seen a copy of Mr Bs signed application form for the store card. It includes a section 
headed Protecting your Account. It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover (a form of PPI), and it continues Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly premium until further notice. Theres a space to sign, with instructions 
only to sign if the applicant required Account Cover. Mr B signed specifically to indicate 
that he wished to take the cover.
Taking everything into account, I was satisfied that Mr B would have realised that the PPI 
wasn't compulsory. And I thought he decided to take the cover, knowing that he had a 
choice  although I could understand how he may no longer remember this, so many 
years later.
AXA says the sale was made on a non-advised basis, and based on what we know about 
the way these policies were sold at the time, I thought it was unlikely that AXA gave Mr B 
advice about the PPI or made a personal recommendation to him about it. This meant 
AXA didn't have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr B. But it did need to make sure it 
gave him enough information to enable him to decide for himself if he wanted PPI, 
knowing what alternative means hed have had of making his monthly repayments if he 
was unable to work.
I accepted that it was possible the information AXA gave Mr B about the PPI wasn't as 
clear as it should have been. But I thought he chose to take out the PPI - so it looked as 
if he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. Based on 
what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr B was eligible for the policy.
Mr Bs told us hed only have been entitled statutory sick pay from his employer at the 
time. If hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what he owed on his store 
card. And it would have done this each month until his credit agreement ended, or he 
returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of his claim had been repaid - 
whichever was the earliest. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any sicky 
pay or redundancy pay Mr B received from his employer. So he could have used those to 
cover other day-to-day expenses.
Id borne in mind that Mr Bs told us that he had some savings when he took out the PPI. 
But based on what hes told us these were equivalent to less than one month of his 
wages. So I thought he could have struggled to keep up with his monthly payments quite 
quickly if hed been off sick or if hed lost his job. And taking everything into account, 
I thought that the PPI could have been useful to Mr B at what could have been a difficult 
time.
I accepted that it was possible the information AXA gave Mr B about the cost of the PPI 
wasn't as clear as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would have been clear 
from the application form that thered be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. And as 
he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time without any further 
cost if his situation changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover.
I acknowledged that Mr Bs told us he suffered from asthma when he applied for the 
policy. But the condition had been diagnosed around 12 years before he applied for the 
PPI. And Mr Bs told us that he'd never had any time off work as a result of it.
To claim for accident or sickness under the policy, Mr B would have had to be off sick for 
at least 30 consecutive days. I thought it was unlikely, on balance, that hed have 
expected to need to take that long off work for his asthma, or any condition resulting from 
it. And he could potentially have claimed successfully if hed lost his job, or if hed been 
off sick with any condition that didn't result from his asthma.
So taking everything into account I wasnt convinced, on balance, that it was likely that 
Mr Bs asthma meant that hed have made a different decision about taking the PPI cover 
if hed been given better information about the exclusions relating to existing medical 
conditions. And he didn't appear to have been affected by any of the other main things 
the policy didn't cover.
Id explained above that I was satisfied that Mr B chose to take out the PPI. And for the 
reasons Id set out, I wasnt convinced that better information about the policy would 
have put him off it. So I didnt think hed lost out as a result of anything that AXA may 
have done wrong.
This meant that based on what Id seen so far, I wasnt planning to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.Further submissions
Neither Mr B nor AXA has commented on my provisional decision, and the time for doing so 
has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaint on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman