DRN-2012027
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the compensation Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada 
Square) has offered to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy taken out at alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mr T applied for a credit card in November 2003 and at the same time took out a PPI policy. 
It seems the PPI was cancelled in October 2004, when the card account was suspended, 
after Mr T defaulted on payments to the account, and the debt owing was sold to a third 
party in March 2005.  
Mr T has now complained the PPI was mis-sold. Canada Square has agreed to uphold the 
complaint and offered to pay compensation to Mr T. 
Mr T is unhappy with the compensation that Canada Square has offered as he believes in 
addition to being refunded the costs of the PPI and some compensatory interest, he should 
also receive compensation for a claim he tried to make on the policy in 2004 that was 
unsuccessful. 
Our adjudicator said what Canada Square had offered in compensation was fair. Mr T 
remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Canada Square has agreed to uphold Mr Ts complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and pay 
him some compensation to settle the complaint. 
When looking at compensation for mis-sold PPI it is expected that as far as possible the 
consumer is put in the position they would have been if they had never have been mis-sold 
the PPI. This is on the basis that if the PPI was mis-sold the consumer would never have 
incurred any costs for the policy but also would not have been able to make any claims on it. 
Where a PPI policy is mis-sold it means it should not have been sold to a particular 
consumer as its likely that consumer wasnt eligible for the cover provided or would not have 
been able to benefit, in part or full, from the cover they were paying for under the policy. 
In the facts of this case it seems Mr T was retired when he took out the PPI. Therefore, he 
wasnt actually eligible for the policy which could have paid out if someone was made 
unemployed or was unable to work due to sickness or accident. As Mr T wasnt working, he 
couldnt make a claim on the policy for unemployment or disability (that is accident or 
sickness). So clearly the policy was mis-sold to him as he was paying for cover, he couldnt 
take the benefit of. 
Mr T did try to make a disability claim in 2004, the year after he took out the policy. But as he 
wasnt in employment, this claim was unsuccessful as he wasnt off work because of 
accident or sickness. I dont know exactly what happened at the point of sale when Mr T took 
out the policy, but clearly, he was not fully informed of the eligibility for the policy, and terms 
and conditions, so the policy should not have been sold to him and it was mis-sold. 
Canada Square has accepted that the PPI was mis-sold, and offered to put Mr T as far as 
possible in the position he would have been in if he had never had the policy and paid 
anything for it. That is the basis on which it has worked out the compensation due to Mr T.
This compensation refunds all the premiums charged to Mr Ts card account and interest 
caused when the premiums were on the account. Plus, Canada Square has included some 
compensatory interest for times when Mr T may have been out of pocket for the costs of the 
PPI. What Canada Square has calculated looks fair and in line with what I would expect.
Mr T actually did not make repayments to his credit card after July 2004 and defaulted on 
repaying the outstanding balance. The debt outstanding on the account was sold in March 
2005 to a third party, and after that Canada Square had no legal interest in the debt. 
So it isnt actually known if Mr T ever fully repaid the debt, part of which would have included 
some of the PPI costs. But as Canada Square no longer has any legal interest in the debt, it 
has included in the compensation the total costs incurred for the PPI, and also 
compensatory interest as if Mr T was out of pocket for the total costs of the PPI, even if he 
possibly never paid back the full costs charged. I think this is fair in the circumstances of this 
particular complaint. 
I know Mr T is very unhappy that when working out the compensation he is not getting 
anything for the unsuccessful claim amount or any compensatory interest on the possible 
amount the claim may have paid. But if Mr T had never taken out the PPI, which is what 
should have happened, then he would not have been able to make a claim at all.
Basically, he wasnt eligible for the policy he bought, so he is getting back everything he may 
have been charged for the PPI, as if he never took it out  and getting some compensatory 
interest for any costs he may have been out of pocket for, even if he may not have fully 
repaid the costs of the PPI. 
Under the terms of the policy he wasnt entitled to make a claim and I can see no reason 
why he should be paid compensation for the cost of what a claim could have paid or be paid 
compensatory interest on the amount of the claim, which is what Mr T seems to want. Mr T 
is being paid compensation to return him to the position as if he had never taken out the PPI. 
As he then too, with no policy in place, would not have been able to make a claim.
So, I think the compensation that Canada Square has offered in the circumstances of this 
case is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Im not upholding this complaint that additional 
compensation is due, as I am satisfied that what Canada Square Operations Limited has 
offered in compensation to Mr T to settle his complaint is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman