DRN-1433176
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr M and Ms M in 1998. It 
protected Mr M and Ms Ms mortgage repayments in the event Mr M became unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M and Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators 
view so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr M and Ms M mainly complain that they took out the policy because it was made clear to 
them that the PPI was needed to get approval for the mortgage. Mr M told us that he didnt 
need or want PPI because his work provided the same benefits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M and Ms Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mr M and Ms M are sure about everything theyve told us. But it wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect Mr M and Ms M to be able to remember exactly what was discussed 
when they took out the policy as this was so long ago. And what Mr M and Ms M say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. Where the information is 
inconsistent or incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make my decision based on what 
I think is likely to have happened taking into account all the information thats available, what 
the parties have told me and also thinking about what we know about these types of sales at 
that time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Nationwide gave Mr M and Ms M a choice about 
taking out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr M wasnt 
given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to Mr M and Ms Ms 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Nationwide told us that its sales process included providing a PPI leaflet to its mortgage 
customers. The PPI leaflet set out information about PPI - it did not state that the policy was 
compulsory. Nationwide said it wouldve also given Mr M and Ms M a policy document which 
explained the details of the policy and that in order to take out cover, Mr M and Ms M first 
had to decide if they wanted it. If so, they had to make decisions about the type of cover 
required; the amount of cover needed, any additional cover that they wanted to have in the 
event of a successful claim and how long they wished to take out cover for.
Mr M took out unemployment cover only. So I think its likely that Mr M and Ms M wouldve 
been aware at the time that it was up to them to say if they wanted PPI and to choose the 
cover that reflected their wishes at the time .
Mr M told us that he had good sick pay arrangements through work  along with other 
employment benefits that he felt offered him adequate protection if he wasnt able to work as 
a result of accident or sickness. So I can understand why taking out PPI to protect 
Mr M and Ms M in the event of Mr M being unable to work as a result of accident and 
sickness might not have seemed like a priority for them  particularly bearing in mind that 
Mr M told us their finances were stretched at the time. 
But I can see why they might still have wanted to have the benefits that PPI could offer in the 
event Mr M lost his job unexpectedly and found himself out of work. He hadnt been in his 
new job for very long when Mr M and Ms M took out this mortgage. It was a major financial 
commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Mr M and Ms Ms home couldve been at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
I think its more likely Mr M and Ms M wanted to have the security and peace of mind that 
taking out unemployment cover for Mr M offered them, especially bearing in mind that only 
he was in paid work at the time, and they decided to buy the policy to cover Mr M. Its 
completely understandable that Mr M and Ms M might now have forgotten some of these 
details. But, on balance, I cant fairly say that Nationwide didnt make it clear that it was open 
to Mr M and Ms M not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have it, just based on what 
Mr M and Ms M say.
Mr M and Ms M told us that Nationwide recommended them to take out the policy during a 
meeting with one of its advisors. Nationwide says it only gave Mr M and Ms M information 
about the policy. Looking at what we know about how Nationwide sold policies in its 
branches at the time, I dont think its likely it gave advice or a personal recommendation 
about PPI to Mr M and Ms M. 
But I can see this is central to Mr M and Ms Ms concerns about the way they were sold this 
PPI. So Ive thought about whether my decision would be different if Nationwide did 
recommend them to take out the policy  and it makes no difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Even if Nationwide had recommended the PPI to Mr M and Ms M I think PPI wouldve been 
suitable for them. 
And, overall, I think Nationwide probably did give them enough clear information so 
Mr M and Ms M could decide if the policy was right for them - and clearer information 
wouldnt have made a difference. 
I say this because it seems to me that Mr M and Ms M couldve benefitted from Mr M having 
PPI to protect him in the event of unexpected unemployment. 
The policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr M became involuntarily 
unemployed. Taking out cover for unemployment didnt affect Mr Ms contractual entitlement 
to redundancy from his employer  and the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any 
redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his job. In this way, PPI provided Mr M and Ms M with some additional financial security in what mightve been a worrying 
financial situation for them  keeping in mind also that Mr M hadnt been in the job long and 
his redundancy entitlement at the time was likely to be limited until hed built up a number of 
years service. 
So I think PPI couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
Although Mr M told us he had life cover through work, PPI provided a different sort of cover 
and paid out in different circumstances.
I've also taken into account that Mr M and Ms M mentioned having an endowment policy in 
place when they took out their mortgage. But this doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-sold to 
them. 
Setting up PPI that provided Mr M with unemployment cover alongside the mortgage meant 
Mr M and Ms M werent at risk of having to cash in their endowment policy early  possibly 
when they couldnt be sure of getting a good return. And I think Mr M and Ms M probably 
preferred to keep this as a long term investment, bearing in mind they kept it running rather 
than cashing it in when they were applying for their mortgage and using the proceeds to 
reduce the cost of their borrowing. So I think that having cover in place so they couldve 
continued to make their monthly mortgage repayments without having to rely on an 
endowment policy wouldve provided a useful extra benefit to Mr M and Ms M.  So this 
information doesnt affect my decision. 
Based on everything Ive seen about their circumstances at the time, I cant reasonably say 
Mr M and Ms M couldnt have benefitted from having the policy if they needed to claim. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if that affected Mr M. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put 
him off taking it out.
Its possible information Nationwide gave Mr M and Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to and so it 
appears to me they did want to have this type of cover and they were happy to pay for the 
level of cover they chose at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy 
caused them financial hardship  so thats not a reason for me to uphold their complaint. 
As it was a policy they paid for monthly, Mr M couldve cancelled it at any time at no extra 
cost if he decided he no longer wanted to pay for this cover  as it appears he did in 
February 2001.
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully into account everything Mr M has said, 
including his comments made in response to our adjudicators opinion. Although he told us 
about the benefits his employer provided in the event of sickness, this doesnt affect my 
overall view because Nationwide didnt sell him any PPI to cover accident or sickness. 
Mr M is right to say that if his wife had fallen ill and hed had to quit his job the PPI policy 
would not have covered his loss of earnings. But this doesnt mean he was mis-sold 
unemployment cover that was intended to provide protection in the event of unplanned or 
unforeseeable redundancy. 
And it doesnt mean that the policy didnt still offer Mr M and Ms M a useful benefit even if it 
didnt include cover for when they might have to make difficult life choices. 
On balance, while I do understand their concerns, I think Nationwide gave Mr M and Ms M 
enough information to make a properly informed decision. Looked at overall, I think it unlikely they wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. So I cant 
see that theyve lost out as a result of anything Nationwide mightnt have done as well as it 
shouldve done. 
I appreciate Mr M and Ms M feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive 
said will come as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that 
have an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman