DRN-3092336
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st Stop Car Finance provided him with a 
hire purchase agreement for a car that was unaffordable.
What happened
In January 2016 Mr M entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with 1st Stop  
Car Finance for a used car. The cash price of the car was around £6,800 and the total 
repayable under the agreement was about £12,200 with 48 monthly payments of 
around
£250.
Mr M says when he entered into the agreement it wasnt affordable as he had an 
unstable work history and poor credit record. He says he was also suffering with poor 
mental health leading him to make poor decisions.
Mr M made payments on the car until August 2016 but his direct debtit payment didnt 
clear in September 2016 although he was able to pay the amount due by card. Around 
this time he changed jobs. Mr M didnt then make any further payments on the car and 
it was repossessed by 1st Stop Car Finance and sold in April 2017. There was a 
balance outstanding on the account of £7,598.80 that Mr M was considered 
responsible for by 1st Stop Car Finance.
Mr M complained to 1st Stop Car Finance in July 2019 that the loan for the car had 
been unaffordable and it hadnt carried out proportionate checks. He said he had been 
left with a large debt. Unfortunately, 1st Stop Car Finance didnt respond to the 
complaint due to an administrative error. It was in December 2019 that 1st Stop Car 
Finance says it became aware that Mr M had complained following contact from this 
service. 1st Stop  Car Finance then review Mr Ms complaint but decided not to uphold 
it.
1st Stop Car Finance said that it was satisfied from the evidence that the loan had been 
affordable from the point of application. It said information had been collated about Mr 
Ms income and expenses before the decision to offer him the agreement had been 
made.
Mr M disagreed with the view of 1st Stop Car Finance and complained to this service. 
He said he didnt think 1st Stop Car Finance had carried out a thorough investigation 
and was unhappy how it had handled his complaint. He said the loan had been 
unaffordable and the business should have asked more questions than it had about 
his job history, health and expenses.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said he 
thought 1st Stop Car Finance had taken sufficient steps to check Mr M was employed  
and had a monthly income of £1,107 and said it had also undertaken a credit check.
Our investigator said looking at the bank statements supplied by Mr M that he didnt 
think Mr M had a large number of outgoings that needed to be covered and had 
sufficient disposable income to cover the cost of the hire purchase agreement. Our 
investigator said Mr M had defaulted on the agreement following a change in 
circumstances which 1st Stop Car Finance would have been unable to predict at the 
time of Mr Ms application.
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said no questions had been 
asked about his health and he hadnt been in the right frame of mind to take out this 
loan. He said the loan was too expensive for the actual value of the car and if he had 
been thinking clearly, he would have seen this. Mr M also said it was clear the loan 
was unaffordable as he had been unable to make the payments after only a short 
period of time, that 1st Stop Car Finance hadnt obtained information about his 
outgoings or about his unstable work history and that his credit record was very poor.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I need to take 
into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There are 
two overarching questions I need to think about in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did 1st Stop Car Finance complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown that Mr M wouldve been able to sustainable repay the 
agreement
Did 1st Stop Car Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
1st Stop Car Finance says that the necessary checks were carried out to ensure 
this loan was affordable for Mr M by looking at his income and credit history. It 
doesnt appear to have reviewed his outgoings as Mr M reported living with his 
parents and was single.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), contains rules for responsible 
lending by consumer credit companies and to assist in assessing a consumers 
ability to repay credit. Checks carried out by lenders should be conducted to 
ensure any lending is affordable and sustainable for the borrower and so should be 
borrower focused and proportionate to the circumstances of the credit. That means 
things like the amount being borrowed, the length of the loan, the size of the 
repayments as well as credit history should be considered.
Here, the information taken for Mr M was that he was living with his parents and had 
been working in the same job for around seven months earning £1,107 per month. Id 
seen Mr M had provided one payslip and that information about his job was also 
verified with his employer. 1st Stop Car Finance was informed that Mr Ms job was a 
fulltime and permanent position. It was also recorded that prior to this job, he had 
previously been employed with the same employer for over five years. Stop Car 
Finance said the credit checks also hadnt shown any issues.Mr M felt strongly that 1st Stop Car Finance should have made enquiries as to his 
health, he said if it had, it would have known that hed suffered with a mental health 
problem. But I didnt think checks on a consumers health were necessarily 
proportionate and could be viewed as unnecessarily intrusive. Here, I hadnt seen any 
reason why 1st Stop Car Finance would have considered such enquiries were 
necessary, there werent long breaks in his work history for instance. It had also 
ascertained Mr M was able to work fulltime.
Mr M said 1st Stop Car Finance should have done more to ascertain his work history 
as if it had it would have seen his past employment record was unstable. But again, I 
disagreed with Mr M about this. I thought 1st Stop Car Finance had verified his current 
employment by speaking with his employer, so it had received more information than 
just relying on the one payslip. It was told by Mr Ms employer that this role was both 
fulltime and permanent in nature.
While I appreciated Mr M felt the costs of the hire purchase agreement were too 
high in relation to the actual value of the car and that he wouldnt have agreed to 
take out agreement if he been thinking clearly, I didnt think this was relevant to the 
question of whether 1st Stop Car Finance had made a fair lending decision. So, I 
didnt take that point any further.
This was a credit agreement for around £12,000, repaid over a four-year period and 
looking at the length of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payments I 
thought it was clear this was a substantial commitment for Mr M to meet. However, I 
thought, on the evidence, that I could reasonably say that 1st Stop Car Finance had 
carried out enough checks when it ascertained the level of Mr Ms income. But Id 
seen it hadnt asked any questions about his expenses other than to ascertain he lived 
with his parents. And I thought due to the amount of the credit being borrowed, and 
the length of the agreement, that it would have been proportionate for 1st Stop Car 
Finance to have asked more questions about Mr Ms committed spending.
I had also seen a copy of Mr Ms credit record at the point of the application. This 
information was therefore available to 1st Stop Car Finance at the time it had agreed 
to provide him with the hire purchase agreement. This credit report confirmed Mr Ms 
address and that he lived with his parents, but it also showed that he had defaulted on 
two credit accounts, one with a bank and another with a telecommunications 
company. It set out that Mr M owed around £2805 in defaults and hadnt made any 
payments on the two defaulted accounts for many months. So, looking at this. I 
thought Mr Ms credit record should have raised concerns with 1st Stop Car Finance 
that he wouldnt be able to sustain payments for this hire purchase agreement.
As 1st Stop Car Finance hadnt asked about his outgoings and hadnt asked 
about the defaulted accounts I couldnt reasonably say it had made a fair 
lending decision based on reasonable and proportionate checks.
The next issue I therefore needed to consider was, if reasonable and proportionate 
checks had been carried out what would they have revealed? Here, Id seen that Mr 
M was, at the time he entered into the credit agreement, employed fulltime and had 
earnings of £1,107pm. And Mr M had provided this service with some bank 
statements which showed only a few regular outgoings, I couldnt see that there 
appeared to be any regular payments for rent or utilities from the evidence. So, this 
would support Mr M was living at home with his parents. Mr M appeared to have 
been paying around £190pm for his road tax, mobile and insurance though despite 
his minimal regular expenses he was overdrawn but I didnt know why he was 
overstretched. But I thought this, and the defaulted accounts showed Mr M was struggling to manage his money despite his income and had been for some time.
So, I thought in these circumstances it would have been fair to think that had 1st Stop 
Car Finance done checks that were borrower focused about Mr Ms outgoings, money 
management and defaulted accounts it wouldnt have considered this credit 
agreement was affordable for him.
For the reasons given above I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I thought that if 
1st Stop Car Finance had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
regarding Mr Ms expenses and had properly considered the defaulted accounts 
shown on his credit record that these would have shown Mr M was unable to 
sustainably repay the agreement. 
The car had been repossessed and sold on leaving an outstanding balance on the 
account for Mr M to clear. I understood that this debt was now with a third-party 
collection agency. As this hire purchase agreement shouldnt have gone live, I asked 
1st Stop Car Finance to seek the account to be returned and for the outstanding 
balance to be written off so that there was nothing left to pay by Mr M.
As Mr M had used of the car while in his possession, though he had ceased to make 
payments from September 2016, I needed to consider whether he had paid for the 
usage of that car in that period. There wasnt an exact formula for working out what fair 
usage should be. However, in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Id thought about 
the amount of interest that was charged under the agreement, the usage Mr M likely 
had of the car and what his costs to stay mobile might have been had he not entered 
into this agreement. In doing so, I thought a fair amount he should pay was £166.63 for 
every month he had use of the car. It seemed Mr M had use of the car for around 12 
months, therefore, I thought it would be fair and reasonable for 1st Stop Car Finance to 
retain £1,999.60 which was all the payments made by Mr M.
The final question I needed to consider was whether 1st Stop Car Finance had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. Although Id seen it hadnt responded to 
Mr Ms first complaint, Mr M had already approached this service about the affordability 
of the loan. I accepted that the delay in the business providing its final response letter 
might have led to Mr M having to wait longer for an outcome but in the circumstances, I 
didnt think this delay warranted compensation.
Mr M agrees with my provisional view but 1st Stop Car Finance has disagreed. It says that 
Mr Ms credit file showed no active expenditure save his overdraft limit of £100 and a 
telecommunications account and so it wouldnt have been proportionate to have asked more 
questions about Mr Ms outgoings. 
1st Stop Car Finance also says that two of the defaults occurred over five years before this 
agreement and the more recent default was with a telecommunications company and so 
could have arisen from a contract dispute. It says Mr M has a settled catalogue account 
which shows he can manage credit accounts.
1st Stop Car Finance says that it was Mr M changing his job that led to the agreement 
becoming unaffordable, but it has agreed that in the circumstances the outstanding balance 
on the account should be written off.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at my provisional decision and I havent changed my mind, I still think 
1st Stop Finance should have asked more questions about Mr Ms outgoings, money 
management and defaulted accounts.
1st Stop Car Finance says that Mr Ms credit file shows that he can manage credit 
agreements due to a settled mail order account. But looking at this particular agreement Ive 
seen it was opened in October 2009 and closed in May 2010 with a credit limit of £550. Mr 
Ms account appears to have a nil balance in the four months preceding the account being 
closed. I cant say whether Mr M ever took out and paid the full credit limit or even if he 
made use of this account. I dont think this credit agreement provides any information as to 
Mr Ms ability to manage credit.
There are three defaulted accounts showing on Mr Ms credit file and while I agree two of 
these defaults arose from 2010, they are still shown as open and active accounts. One has a 
balance of £1,803 owed to a bank and the second of £155 owed to a telecommunications 
supplier. No payments have been made to either of these accounts for the two years shown 
on the credit file. The third defaulted account is to a telecommunications company for the 
amount of £847, the default occurred in November 2014 and again no payments have been 
made towards that account.
1st Stop Car Finance says that disputes with telecommunications can arise for reasons other 
than affordability, but I think it would have been reasonable to have asked Mr M about the 
defaults due to the number and amounts outstanding. I still think these were evidence that 
Mr M was struggling with managing his money at the time he took out the credit agreement 
for the car and were evidence that Mr M would be unable to sustainably repay the finance 
agreement.
1st Stop Car Finance has agreed that it would be fair to write off the outstanding balance 
from Mr Ms account but Im still going to ask it to also remove any adverse information 
about this account from his credit file.
So, for the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking 1st Stop Car Finance to do the following:
 Request Mr Ms account is returned by the third-party collection agency.
.
Write-off the outstanding balance so that there is nothing further to pay by Mr M.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
As set out above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im asking Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st 
Stop Car Finance to do the following:
Request Mr Ms account is returned by the third-party collection agency.
.
Write-off the outstanding balance so that there is nothing further to pay by Mr M.Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman