DRN-4278807
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc considered a claim they made on 
their home insurance (contents) policy.
AXA are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of their appointed agents. As AXA have accepted they are responsible for the actions of their 
agents, in my decision, any reference to AXA should be interpreted as also covering the 
actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr and Mrs S and AXA. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have. 
Although this was a joint policy, as Mrs S has largely been dealing with this complaint, my 
decision will only refer to her.
Mrs S had a home insurance policy with AXA since 2013. This included contents cover. In 
July 2022, Mrs S notified AXA that shed been on a walk with her dog and the diamond from 
her ring had fallen out.
AXA considered the claim but ultimately declined it. As part of the claim consideration the 
ring was valued at around £2,505. AXA said for cover to be provided outside of the home - 
as the value was above £1,500, it needed to be a named item on the policy. 
Mrs S said theyd paid £1,200 for the ring and therefore didnt think she needed to name it 
under the policy. AXA said responsibility lay with the policy holder to ensure that she was 
fully covered given that the value of jewellery can fluctuate over time. 
Unhappy, Mrs S referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our 
Investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld. As AXA didnt agree, the complaint 
has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this 
complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our Service. 
AXA did not engage effectively with our Service during the course of our initial investigation
into this complaint. Our investigator made repeated information requests for AXA to
send important information. This is very disappointing.
AXA have argued that The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) isnt relevant here as:
misrepresentation only applies when something has been represented in the first 
place. In this case the customer never took out cover for specified items and we do 
not feel it is relevant whether we would have offered cover and at what cost.. 
I dont necessarily agree with this. I say this as, although the policy renewed yearly, Mrs S 
was still entering into a new contract of insurance at every renewal. At each renewal point 
since 2013, Mrs S will have (in summary) been asked to confirm that her circumstances/the 
insured risk hadnt changed since the previous year. Im making this point as our general 
approach to this type of complaint would be that CIDRA is applicable. Please see our 
published approach here: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/complaints-
deal/insurance/misrep-and-non-disclosure However, Ive considered this complaint under 
our fair and reasonable remit. 
Have AXA fairly and reasonably considered this claim in line with the policy terms?
AXA declined this claim as the ring hadnt been specified as a high risk item by Mrs S under 
the policy. AXA said that if any item was worth more than £1,500 it needed to be named 
under the policy to be covered outside of the home. 
Mrs S provided evidence that when she purchased the ring in 2014 she paid £1,200 for it. 
AXA have said that jewellery can fluctuate in price and the responsibility lies with the policy 
holder to ensure theyre fully insured. 
AXA have said the cost of a replacement diamond was £2,505. Its important to point out that 
the actual value of the ring may be more than this as, based on the evidence provided, this 
was the cost of the diamond replacement only. 
I dont consider that AXA have treated Mrs S fairly here. I say this because, in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint, I find it an unreasonable expectation that at the point of 
each renewal Mrs S would need to get any items costing below £1,500 valued. A quick 
search online shows that a valuation per item can cost anything from £30-£100. Keeping in 
mind this policy cost £432.24 at the 2021 renewal - this is an unreasonable expectation. 
Mrs S did previously name two mobile phones and a laptop as named items to be covered 
away from the home. But I dont find that Mrs S has tried to misrepresent the risk insured. 
Instead, I find that she acted in good faith when not naming the ring under the policy, as 
shed paid £1,200 for it. 
Ill cover off what AXA need to do to put things right later in my decision. 
How have AXA treated Mrs S overall?
Our Investigator recommended that AXA pay Mrs S £100 in recognition that their actions in 
handling this complaint will have caused her avoidable trouble and upset. I find this to be 
fair, reasonable and proportionate  relative to the impact of AXAs actions on Mrs S. 
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc now need to reconsider this claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms. Should this be a claim that progresses to settlement, AXA need to give Mrs S the 
option* of either:Having the claim settled (subject to any policy excess) up to a limit of £1,500. This 
reflects that the ring didnt need to be a named item - should its value be below 
£1,500. 8% simple interest should be added to any settlement amount from four 
weeks after the date of claim notification until the date payment is made to Mrs S; or
Having the full claim settled proportionally, without any additional premium, subject to 
any policy excess - based on Mrs S being underinsured for the ring. 8% simple 
interest should be added to any settlement amount from four weeks after the date of 
claim notification until the date payment is made to Mrs S; or
Having the claim settled in full, subject to any policy and subject to Mrs S paying any 
increased premium that wouldve been due had she declared the value of the ring 
renewal in November 2021. 8% simple interest should be added to any settlement 
amount from four weeks after the date of claim notification until the date payment is 
made to Mrs S.
* AXA Insurance UK Plc need to ensure Mrs S is fully informed about any settlement amount 
shed receive  before she decides her preferred option. All the above is subject to the 
remaining policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to follow 
my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman