DRN-3843011
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mishandled his loans.
What happened
In May 2009, Mr P took out a loan (A) of £311.93 (Loan A). In June 2009, he took out a 
further loan of £524.96 (Loan B). Both were point of sale loans at a retailer and were 
provided by a subsidiary of HSBC. Both were payable over 48 months. In October 2021, 
HSBC wrote to Mr P to say theyd reviewed some charges on certain accounts that had 
been in their Collections department and refunded £213.61  made up of £126.58 charges 
plus interest of £87.03. HSBC sent a cheque to Mr P.
Mr P complained. He said that he wanted a breakdown of all charges and interest applied to 
his loans. He wanted a refund of all interest and charges. He said he had asked HSBC for 
help at the time but didnt get it. His credit rating was now affected.  He further complained 
that HSBC hadnt responded to his first complaint letter sent in October 2021, and he then 
had to send another letter in November 2021. Hed asked HSBC for a data subject access 
request (DSAR).
In December 2021, HSBC said that interest and fees had been applied to Mr Ps account as 
follows: Loan A - had total charges of £26 (Unpaid direct debit fees £10; default notice fee 
£16); and interest of £133.79. Loan B - had total charges of £166 (unpaid direct debit fees 
£150; default notice fee £16); and interest of £284.04. HSBC said theyd had conversations 
with Mr P at the time and he had said that the loan payments would be met from his bank 
account. But the direct debits for the repayments had then failed. Both loans were sold to a 
debt collection agency in October 2013. HSBC said that from then on, Mr P should deal with 
the DCA regarding his loan debt. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC acted reasonably in dealing 
with Mr Ps complaint. HSBC had applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions of 
the loans when they were taken out. He said that any complaints Mr P had regarding the 
DSAR request should be addressed to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr P didnt agree. He made additional complaints  that HSBC hadnt dealt with his first 
complaint letter in October 2021; and HSBC had called a number in December 2021  which 
wasnt his number. So  he said that HSBC had breached data protection laws as theyd 
kept his old (or unknown) number on file for over ten years  when it shouldve been deleted. 
He asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file on Mr Ps complaint - let me say that our role is to decide whether a firm 
acted fairly and reasonably in the individual circumstances of a complaint. Our role is not to 
decide whether a firm, or a customer, has interpreted the law correctly or not. Thats for a 
court to decide. So, while Ive taken into account what the relevant law says here, Ive 
focused on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, in line with our role as a 
quick and informal service.
Mr Ps complaint is that:
- He asked for help at the time regarding his loans - as he was in difficulty.
- He wants all the charges and interest on the loans refunded.
- He wanted a breakdown of all interest and charges on his loans.
- HSBC breached data protection laws in calling an unknown or old number.
- He asked HSBC for a DSAR and it hadnt been provided in the timescale laid down.
- HSBC didnt respond to his complaints in a timely manner  his first letter dated 
October 2021 wasnt replied to.
Financial difficulty:  I looked at HSBCs records of conversations with Mr P. There were calls 
on 9 March 2010; 14 April 2010; 17 April 2010; 12 May 2010; 11 February 2011; and 15 
June 2011. Each call recorded that Mr P intended to meet the loan payments and /or pay off 
the arrears. I couldnt see anything which suggested that he told HSBC that he was in 
financial difficulty and needed help. If there had been, depending on Mr Ps circumstances, 
we might have expected HSBC to agree to some degree of support, such as an interest and 
charges - free period, or deferred payments.  But based on the evidence I have seen, there 
wasnt a reason for HSBC to agree to this.
I also saw that in June 2010, Mr Ps mother  wrote to HSBC to say that she was concerned 
that Mr Ps loan was behind with payments and that she had lost contact with him. She paid 
in £100 at that time. She was also sent a settlement figure to pay off the loan.
Based on all the information and evidence, I think that HSBCs decision to default the loan 
and pass it to a debt collection agency was reasonable.
Refund of charges and interest: Ive considered Mr Ps complaint here. A refund of charges 
and interest would only be reasonable if it was shown he was in financial difficulty at the time 
 and as Ive set out, I cant find any evidence that was so. So, I cant in all fairness say that 
there should be a further refund of interest and charges. 
I looked at the two loan agreements. And they say that unpaid direct debit charges were £15 
each time; and a £15 charge for an overdue account, charged each month when the account 
was overdue; and £50 to send a default notice. The interest was quoted as 29.5% per 
annum. While our service doesnt provide an audit check on the figures, the amounts quoted 
in HSBCs breakdown look to be in line with the loan agreements. I noticed that the default 
fees charged were less than in the loan agreement - as £16 was charged. And so  as the 
charges and interest were set out in the loan agreements, I think it was fair for HSBC to 
charge those amounts.
Breakdown of charges and interest: HSBC gave this in their final response letter in 
December 2021. So  Mr Ps request was fulfilled here.
HSBC called an old or unknown number: As I have said we are an informal dispute 
resolution service and Ive considered Mr Ps complaint in the light of that. The call was 
made by HSBC in December 2021 following Mr Ps complaint. HSBC told us it was made to 
the number in their records  and have shown us that this was the case. Ive listened to the 
call  it lasted only a few seconds and was unanswered. HSBC said they were calling Mr P 
and asked if he could call back. No information about Mr Ps affairs, or the purpose of the 
call was given.  And so  because none of Mr Ps data or personal information was disclosed 
or compromised on the call - I think HSBC acted reasonably here.HSBCs response to a request for a DSAR: Our investigator is correct here  any concerns 
Mr P has in connection with his DSAR request should be addressed to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).
HSBCs responses to Mr Ps complaint letters: Mr P has made several points about how 
HSBC responded to his complaint letters. Hes said that his first letter wasnt responded to 
and was sure that it was sent to the correct address  as the address was on the letter he 
received from HSBC. Our investigator has tried to deal with this aspect of Mr Ps complaint. 
But I take a different view here -  as our service doesnt have the authority to look at a 
complaint about a firms complaint handling processes.
This service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. 
These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint 
as being about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss 
complaint handling or processes arent included. Mr Ps concerns about HSBCs response 
here is specifically about how they handled his complaint. And so  this aspect of Mr Ps 
complaint isnt one we can look at, or one that I will comment on.
I can see that Mr P feels strongly about his complaint and has put several points and 
arguments to us. So, he will be disappointed by my decision  but Im not going to ask HSBC 
to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman