DRN-2175854
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined cover for chemotherapy
treatments administered by the hospital. Mrs M believes the treatment ought to be covered
by her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M has a Healthier Solutions private medical insurance policy with Aviva. The policy
includes a six week option, a £500 reduced out-patient cover with a £200 excess and a key
hospital list.
Mrs M was diagnosed with cancer in July 2017. She had surgery in September 2017 and in 
June 2018 as a private patient. She was covered for both surgeries under the Aviva
policy as the NHS wait time was more than six weeks. Aviva provided cover and paid for
treatments shed had.
In January 2019, Mrs M was advised to have treatment for chemotherapy. She said she
decided to go ahead with the NHS treatment on the basis that her policy had a £100 per day
cash benefit. Aviva explained to Mrs M that she wouldnt be able to claim for the NHS cash
benefit for the chemotherapy treatment administered at the hospital. Mrs M was unhappy
about this. Aviva declined her claim for these treatments because under the terms and
conditions of the policy, they were classed as day-patient treatments, so she wasnt entitled
to payment for these. Aviva agreed and paid for chemotherapy treatments administered at
home and privately and continues to do so as these were within the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
In February 2019 and in April 2019, Aviva wrote to Mrs M to confirm it wouldnt be able to
cover her for the chemotherapy treatment as she was able to receive these within six weeks
with the NHS. And as she then wasnt eligible to claim for this on the Aviva policy privately,
she also couldnt claim the NHS cash benefit. Aviva said it could cover Mrs M privately to
receive the chemotherapy treatment at home as she wasnt being admitted to hospital. It
confirmed the six week option applies only for in-patient and day-patients  it doesnt apply 
to out-patients. If chemotherapy was being administered at the hospital, there would be a 
cost charged by the hospital for the use of the facilities and that would be classed as an 
in-patient or day-patient.
In June 2019, Aviva wrote to Mrs M to confirm that she was able to bring her complaint
to this service. The complaint was referred to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. This was
because he thought Mrs M met the definition of an out-patient when she had the treatment at 
the NHS hospital rather than a day-patient. He therefore thought the six week option that 
was applied didnt need to be. He also said he spoke to the NHS trust who confirmed that 
Mrs M received treatment in their out-patient clinic.
Aviva responded to the investigators assessment and said it didnt agree that Mrs M met the 
definition of an out-patient as the chemotherapy treatment she received required medical 
supervision and therefore meets the definition of a day-patient (and therefore the six week 
option takes precedence). It said Mrs M wasnt covered for the chemotherapy treatments 
she had at the NHS hospital.
The complaint was referred to me to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 
19 August 2020. I said I was minded not to uphold the complaint. 
The terms and conditions of the policy state:
Six week option:
You cannot claim for private treatment as an in-patient or day-patient, NHS cash
benefit, NHS cancer cash benefit or for the cost of an NHS amenity bed if your
treatment is available on the NHS within six weeks from the date your specialist
recommends it.
I considered this and as Mrs M had opted for the six week option in her policy and that 
chemotherapy treatment was available under the NHS within six weeks of the specialist 
recommending it, I thought Mrs M couldnt claim for treatment she had at the NHS hospital. 
Additionally, the section in the policy document for cancer treatment said:
If you have the six week option, we do not pay for treatment as an in-patient or day-
patient if its available on the NHS within six weeks from the date your specialist
recommends it. If you are diagnosed with cancer, this may mean that your treatment
will be available on the NHS and we will not pay for most of the treatment that you
need. If you have the six week option and you have treatment as an out-patient, we
do not apply the six week rule to that treatment. However, if you need to be admitted 
for emergency treatment, for example a blood transfusion, we will not pay for that
treatment. If your treatment is for a condition for which we have a network, we will
only pay for that treatment if it is carried out at a facility and/or under the care of a
specialist (or other practitioner) recognised by us as part of the network..
Having considered both sections, I thought the condition hadnt been satisfied for the claim 
to succeed. While Mrs M said she thought chemotherapy treatment would be covered in full, 
this would only be the case if she had treatment via Avivas approved networks. I explained 
also that Mrs M would be defined as a day-patient (because she wouldve needed medical 
supervision) when she had the treatment under the NHS and she therefore wouldnt be able 
to claim the £100 NHS cash benefit. 
I said although the NHS Trust confirmed Mrs M attended an out-patient clinic, Aviva relied on 
the definition for a day-patient as Mrs M would have needed medical supervision due to the 
risks involved in the treatment she received. For the purposes of this policy, Mrs M would not 
have been regarded as an out-patient. 
My provisional decision therefore said that I was minded not to uphold the complaint and that 
Aviva hadnt unfairly declined the claim in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Both Aviva and Mrs replied to my provisional decision. 
Mrs M said she didnt agree with my provisional thoughts. She said the treatment she had at 
the hospital is always in an out-patient department and that all her treatment required 
medical supervision whether at home or in hospital. 
Aviva said it didnt have anything further to add. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I appreciate the comments provided by Mrs M which Ive reconsidered. However, while the 
hospital provides treatment to Mrs M and does this in an out-patient clinic, my understanding 
is that medical supervision would still be required. As such, under the terms and conditions 
of the policy, if a patient requires medical supervision, this would fall under the definition of a 
day-patient. 
Overall, therefore, I havent received any further comments which would lead me to depart 
from my provisional decision. I really appreciate and understand that Mrs M is going through 
a very difficult time. However, my role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties 
and reach an independent, impartial decision based on the facts of this case. Having done 
so, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think Aviva has looked at the claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. Im satisfied the claim hasnt been declined unfairly or 
unreasonably. As such, I dont think Aviva needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman