DRN-2894900
The complaint
Mr N complains about the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) when he 
made a claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N holds a home emergency policy with Aviva that includes cover for repairs in the event 
of faults with his home electrics. In November 2020 Mr N called Aviva as he was 
experiencing power cuts from his fuse box. Aviva arranged for an engineer to visit two days 
later.
By the time Avivas engineer attended the property, they found that some work had already 
been done. Aviva decided not to complete the repair. Mr N called his own electrician to 
repair the fault instead.
Mr N complained to Aviva about the length of time taken for an engineer to visit. He said the 
electrical faults were dangerous and so he had to call his own electrician to isolate it. To 
resolve his complaint, he wanted Aviva to pay him £500, which was the amount hed paid his 
electrician to find, isolate and repair the fault.
Aviva said Mr N had accepted the earliest appointment it had offered and it hadnt authorised 
him to get the work completed privately. It said it didnt cover third-party interference and so 
it wouldnt reimburse the cost of the repair.
Mr N remained unhappy, not only with the timescales of the call out but with Avivas 
comments about the cause of the initial fault and advice given to him by its engineer. He said 
the engineer didnt assess the fault and had told him to ask his electrician to reverse the 
repairs theyd made.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. She said Aviva had arranged 
for an engineer to attend as soon as possible and within the terms of the agreement it had 
with Mr N. Our investigator said that as Mr Ns electrician had carried out work without 
Avivas approval, it wasnt liable for the costs incurred to repair the fault.
As Mr N remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has treated Mr N fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. Let me explain why.
Mr Ns main concern is that Aviva arranged for an engineer to visit two days after hed told 
them about the fault. He felt he had no choice but to arrange for his own electrician to isolate 
the fault sooner than the appointment Aviva had arranged. Its clear hes frustrated that 
Aviva didnt consider the fault as an emergency and feels all call outs under the policy 
should be treated as such by definition. 
I can understand why Mr N has applied the general definition of an emergency to his 
circumstances. Emergency is defined in the terms and conditions of Mr Ns cover as 
something which exposes a health risk, causes a loss of essential services or damage to the 
property, or makes the property uninhabitable. As its a defined word within the terms and 
conditions Mr N has agreed to, Id expect Aviva to apply this definition to the circumstances 
instead.
When Mr N initially reported the fault, he told Aviva the fuse box kept tripping and electricity 
had gone from part of the property. He also told them he and his partner would be staying 
there. The terms and conditions of Mr Ns cover say Aviva will send someone out as soon as 
possible. Mr N asked for the earliest possible appointment and Aviva confirmed their earliest 
appointment was two days later. Mr N accepted this at the time. So, I think this was a 
reasonable time period in the circumstances.
Mr N says his electrician told him the fault was dangerous. He provided an invoice, which 
shows the electrician found and isolated a faulty cable from the circuit. It also shows the 
electrician returned four days later to replace the faulty cable. The invoice doesnt provide 
the electricians opinion on the severity of the fault. So, theres no suggestion the fault 
exposed a health risk to Mr N and his partner. As Aviva was told the property still had 
electricity and that Mr N was still able to live there, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to say 
it wasnt an emergency.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ns cover says that Aviva will not be liable for the cost of any 
work carried out by the policyholder or people not authorised by it in advance. Mr N says the 
fault kept getting worse after he spoke with Aviva and it made him worry he or his partner 
could be in danger. So, he called his own electrician to look at the fault later that day. I can 
understand why Mr N felt the problem was an emergency. But, as his electrician carried out 
work on the fault without Avivas knowledge or authorisation, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Aviva to pay for the cost to isolate or repair the electrical fault.
Mr N was also unhappy that Aviva said the fault was caused by an incorrect installation. 
Avivas engineer didnt assess the fault themselves. But Mr N told Aviva his electrician had 
said the fault was caused by an incorrect electrical wiring installation. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to make this comment. 
As for Avivas comments about the advice its engineer gave Mr N about reversing the initial 
repairs, I agree with our investigator that theres no evidence of what was actually said at the 
time. Even so, as the repair to the fault was made by an electrician Aviva hadnt approved, 
Im satisfied Aviva wouldnt have been able to cover the cost of the work from Mr Ns 
electrician, even if theyd reversed the initial repairs.
Im sorry to hear about the distress and inconvenience Mr N experienced but, for the 
reasons given, I dont think Aviva needs to do anything more.
My final decision
I think Aviva Insurance Limited has treated Mr N fairly and reasonably. So, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman