DRN-3113676
Complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) unfairly added interest, fees and 
charges to his overdraft when he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought BOS should have realised that 
Mr As overdraft had become unsustainable for him by October 2014. So it needed to refund 
all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr As overdraft from this point. BOS disagreed 
with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do think that BOS acted unfairly when it 
renewed Mr As overdraft in October 2014. 
By this point, BOS would have seen that Mr A had been hardcore borrowing for pretty much 
the entire review period. In other words, Mr As account remained overdrawn for the entire 
review period without returning to credit. And the Lending Code, which was in place at the 
time and which BOS subscribed to, clearly stated that that hardcore borrowing was a 
potential indicator of difficulty.  
BOS has suggested this wasnt Mr As main account because utility bills werent being paid 
from it. But the money Mr A was receiving was paid into this account. And theres nothing to 
indicate Mr A was transferring funds to from this account to another one and BOS hasnt 
provided anything to evidence Mr A having another account either. 
BOS has also referred to Mr As account having been well-credited and that Mr A could have 
chosen to remove or reduce his overdraft. But it seems to me that some of the income BOS 
is referring to was rent contributions earmarked for this purpose. And in any event, its clear 
Mr As overdrawn position wasnt improving. 
So I think that when BOS renewed Mr As overdraft in October 2014, it ought to have seen 
that Mr A was already struggling to manage his overdraft and treated him with forbearance 
rather than adding increased interest, fees and charges to what he owed. And I dont think 
that the account going into credit some six or so years later changes this.
As BOS didnt react to Mr As overdraft usage, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards him. And as this led to Mr A paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time 
when he was already struggling to clear what he owed, Im satisfied that he lost out as a 
result of BOS failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. So BOS needs to put things 
right.
  
Fair compensation  what BOS needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint for BOS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr As overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from October 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made BOS should contact Mr A to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If BOS considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr As 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from October 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr A along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then BOS 
should remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BOS to take off tax from this interest. BOS must give    
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman