DRN-3756701
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), causing him to 
suffer a loss in the value of his pension benefits.
What happened
In February 2014 Mr B received advice from Portal regarding his personal pension. 
Mr B was 56 years of age and was medically unable to work. Portal obtained information 
about Mr Bs overall financial circumstances, identifying that he had a personal pension with 
a fund value around £70,000 that its advice focussed on. Mr B also had a second pension, 
that Portal didnt consider in this process.
Portal documented that Mr B had the following objectives from the advice:
To take £14,000 in tax free cash
To use pensions to take income from age 63
Portal recommended that Mr B transfer his personal pension to a SIPP, where he should 
crystallise £56,000 of the fund in order to release an immediate pension commencement 
lump sum (PCLS) of £14,000. It then recommended investments for the residual crystallised 
and uncrystallised parts of the fund as follows:
13.2% Lakeview UK Investments plc (fixed term investment for 5 years)
13.2% Real Estate Investments USA plc (fixed term investment for 5 years)
13.2% Strategic Residential Developments plc (fixed term investment for 5 years)
50.33% spread across seven regulated investment funds
10.07% Cash 
Mr B followed Portals recommendation, transferring his pension on 26 February 2015, and 
taking a £14,000 PCLS on 27 February 2014.
In December 2020 Mr B complained to Portal, via a representative, about the advice hed 
been given in 2014. He didnt think that the transfer to the SIPP had been in his best 
interests or that the investments that were recommended were suitable for him.
Portal wrote to Mr Bs representative to acknowledge receipt of the complaint. But didnt 
think that it was obliged to respond, querying the representatives entitlement to represent 
Mr B in that way.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and was unable to resolve the dispute. Portal 
didnt agree with our investigators view that our service had jurisdiction to consider this case, 
or her view on the merits of it.
The case was referred to me to give a decision on. I issued a provisional assessment in 
which I gave my decision on jurisdiction. I explained to both parties why Mr Bs complaint 
had been made within the time limits allowed by the rules that govern our service. In my 
provisional assessment I explained that I would not repeat my decision on jurisdiction unless 
I was presented further comment or evidence that had an impact on it. Ive seen no further 
comment or evidence in relation to that decision.
In my provisional decision, I also gave my view on the merits of Mr Bs complaint. I explained 
why I thought it should be upheld and suggested a way to put things right for Mr B. Ive had 
no further comment or evidence provided in response to that provisional assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received no new arguments or evidence in this case that I had not already considered in 
reaching my provisional assessment. And having considered the circumstances again, my 
final decision is unchanged from my that assessment. I will outline the reasons that Im 
upholding this complaint.
Portal were only advising on one of Mr Bs pensions. It conducted a fact-find with him and 
established that he had a second pension that was valued around £264,000 when advice 
was given. But it explained that it wasnt advising on that pension. Portal obtained basic 
information about Mr Bs income and expenditure and his financial situation. Portal had no 
evidence that Mr B had any savings other than his personal pensions. 
Portal assessed Mr Bs ATR as being moderately cautious. Which, in summary, it described 
as being someone with low to moderate levels of knowledge of financial matters, 
uncomfortable taking risks, and preferring certain outcomes to gambling with their money. 
Portal shared the questionnaire that it used to assess Mr Bs attitude to risk. It gives Mr Bs 
responses, although doesnt share the scoring that implied he had a moderately cautious 
ATR. His responses indicated a lack of experience of investing, no experience of investing in 
property, being uncomfortable investing in the stock market, and someone clearly looking for 
safety in his investments. Overall, I think that Portals assessment of Mr B as being cautious 
and looking for certainty was probably fair.
Ive looked at Portals reasons for recommending that Mr B transfer his pension to the SIPP. 
These seem to be that Mr B wanted to access his PCLS and have a drawdown facility. I 
think that its more likely than not that Mr B genuinely wanted to access cash from his 
pension. He was 56 and no longer working. This wasnt his only pension. And I think it was a 
considered decision. I say that because, according to Portals fact-find of 29 January 2014, 
Mr B initially wanted to raise £5,500. But, on 30 January, he called Portal to say that he 
instead needed £14,000. Mr B would have been aware at that stage of his potential PCLS of 
over £17,000. So he appears to have been seeking to access what he needed rather than 
the maximum that was available to him at the time. And of his own choice rather than as 
advised.
Mr B was entitled to access this pension as he was already over 55. And he had explained 
that he had a need to access a lump sum. And with a second, larger, pension untouched, it 
would likely have been something Mr B wanted to do. So I dont think that it was obviously 
unsuitable for Mr B to access his PCLS. Which means that it wasnt necessarily unsuitable 
for Portal to look at how Mr B might best do this.
At the time of this advice, Mr B would most likely have had to transfer from his personal 
pension in order to take a PCLS and leave the remainder invested in drawdown. Mr B 
seemed unlikely to want to take income from his pension until age 63 when his medical insurance payments would be reviewed. I understand that he ended up taking income 
sooner, but I dont think that was the objective at the time the advice was provided. I dont 
therefore think Mr B would have wanted an annuity at that time
Mr Bs complaint isnt that he shouldnt have accessed his PCLS. And based on his 
objectives and the options at the time, I dont think that transferring to a SIPP to achieve the 
objective of accessing his PCLS, was unsuitable. But Portal also gave Mr B specific advice 
on how to invest the residual fund. And I agree with our investigator that the recommended 
investments werent suitable for Mr B.
The following investment recommendations that Portal made were unregulated collective 
investment schemes (UCIS):
Lakeview UK Investments plc
Real Estate Investments USA plc
Strategic Residential Developments plc
These investments were not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They were 
collective investments  structures where many investors pool their money to be invested in 
the specified way.
At the time that Portal made its recommendation to Mr B, the FCA had already published a 
report in 2010 about good and poor practice regarding UCIS. It highlighted its concern that 
UCIS were being recommended to customers for whom they werent suitable. These types 
of funds can have a high degree of volatility. They didnt provide a great deal of past 
performance on which Portal could base its recommendation. They ought to have been 
treated as speculative investments, only suitable for certain types of investors and only 
considered for a small part of an investment portfolio. Instead, Portal recommended that 
Mr B invest almost 40% of this pension into these types of investments.
I think that Portals description of these funds misrepresented them as potentially being quite 
safe. It should have made it clearer that these funds were unregulated and offered no 
protection through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in the event that 
the investments failed.
Having looked at these investments, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think they were 
suitable for Mr Bs moderately cautious ATR or his capacity for loss. These investments 
were speculative and it was unsuitable to recommend their being included in the portfolio for 
Mr B. And whilst Mr B had some capacity for investment loss, because of the other pension 
he held, I think his capacity for loss was low. He wasnt working and had told Portal he would 
be unable to work again. So his ability to replace losses was limited. I also think that its 
worth noting that Portal gave no indication that it had considered the way in which Mr Bs 
other pension was invested. It didnt know the extent to which that was exposed to risk. It 
couldnt rely too much on that other pension to offset risks with this SIPP without 
understanding it better. With the information it had, it should have made sure that the overall 
investments in this SIPP matched Mr Bs ATR. And it didnt.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr B would have invested differently. And I think the likely impact is that his whole 
SIPP would have been invested in a way more in line with his ATR. Which includes the 
likelihood that the choice and balance of the regulated investment funds in his pension would have been different, as the strategy was set as a whole. This means that its not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either Portal or Mr B dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us 
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr B receives 
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once 
any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Pay Mr B £100 for the distress caused in seeing a large proportion of his pension fund 
being lost, during a period when he was able to consider making drawdowns on that 
fund.
Repay the advisers fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the 
fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value 
can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
Portal should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value 
before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portal may require that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay 
Portal any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan.
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
The Novia SIPP only now exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Novia SIPP to 
be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr B can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the Novia SIPP to be closed.
Why is this benchmark suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr B would have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP must pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman