DRN-2707814
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) treated him
unfairly when it refused to provide a refund for flights he booked using his credit card.
What happened
In late 2018 Mr G booked some flights for himself and a family member via a third
party travel agent (that Ill refer to as C) for a trip overseas the following year. The flights
were to be provided by a third party airline (that Ill refer to as J). About ten days before they
were due to fly C contacted Mr G and some flights were re-booked as a result of this
conversation. Mr G and his companion flew out on 30 March 2019 without any problem but,
a few days before they were due to fly back (a month or so later), they were told the return
flights were cancelled - because J had ceased trading. 
Mr G contacted C who said he would have to book two new flights if he wanted to travel on
the same date as the cancelled flights. Mr G paid over £4,000 for replacement flights. He
tried to reclaim this cost on his travel insurance when he returned home but the claim was
rejected. He wants AESEL to provide a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit
Act 1974. Mr G says (in summary) C made misrepresentations and acted in breach of
contract as follows:-
the cancelled flights were ATOL protected so C should have organised replacement
flights at no cost;
C knew J was in trouble financially in March 2019 and should have re-booked flights
without involving J;
Mr G told C to re-book his flights with a different, more secure, airline (that Ill refer to
as E) in March 2019;
Cs mission statement promises a high standard of service but C misrepresented the
position when flights were re-booked in March 2019; and
C owed Mr G a duty of care and should have ensured he got the flights he paid for.
AESEL investigated the matter but doesnt think it should have to do anything further. It says 
the flights werent ATOL protected and theres no evidence that C should have known that J 
would cease trading or was negligent in booking the flights. AESEL considers there was no 
breach of contract or misrepresentation between Mr G and C. And it says the requirements 
for a section 75 claim arent met in respect of the cancelled flights  because Mr G paid C for 
those, not J - meaning the debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship needed under section 
75 isnt in place.
Our investigator doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She accepts flights Mr
G booked via C werent supplied because J ceased trading. She doesnt think it would
be reasonable to hold AESEL responsible for that as the necessary link, between Mr G (the
debtor), AESEL (the creditor) and J (the supplier) required under section 75, isnt present.
She considered the agreement Mr G had with C was to book flights only. Shes satisfied C
fulfilled that and shes not persuaded there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr G doesnt think this outcome is fair. He says he told C that he wanted to travel with a
different airline because of Js financial problems when the flights were re-booked in March
2019. And he thought C had done so, because flights were rearranged for different dates
and times with E. He feels C misrepresented the situation because it failed to take J out of
the equation, meaning E required him to pay again for return flights when J ceased trading.
He found out J and E are linked and he thinks its even more unreasonable that he had to
pay E again for flights booked with J. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 24 February 2021. My provisional findings 
are summarised below (in italics). 
I can see that Mr G has strong feelings about what happened here. I think thats 
understandable given the very stressful situation he found himself in. I want to assure Mr G 
that I have thought carefully about everything that he said and sent to us.
Mr G brings this complaint against AESEL to our service because he paid for the relevant
flights using credit that AESEL supplied. And, under section 75, a consumer like Mr G has
an equal right to claim against the lender or the supplier of goods or services if theres been
a misrepresentation or breach of contract, in specific circumstances. I make my decision 
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances  taking 
relevant law into account, amongst other things. So, Ive considered section 75 when Ive 
looked at whether AESEL has taken appropriate steps in response to Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G told us AESEL attempted a chargeback for the cost of flights which was unsuccessful. I 
understand he accepts that so we havent looked into it further here. Mr G booked several 
flights using his credit card. The original booking in November 2018 included outward and 
return flights to a destination abroad, as well as some internal flights whilst they were there. 
As I understand it, the outward and return flights were re-booked after a conversation Mr G 
had with C in mid-March 2019. Mr G also booked two replacement flights in April 2019, when 
his return flights were cancelled. Just to be clear, in this decision Im looking at AESELs 
obligations, arising out of the finance provided, in respect of the two flights that were 
cancelled.
section 75 and J
Theres no dispute that two return flights Mr G booked with C were cancelled when J ceased
trading in April 2019. I realise that must have been upsetting and inconvenient for Mr G and 
his companion. But, the requirements of section 75 are strict. One of those requirements is a 
debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship must exist between the relevant parties. In this 
case that means the credit provided by AESEL must have been used to finance an 
agreement between Mr G and J, the party that was supposed to supply the flights. Im
satisfied Mr G paid C not J so the necessary link isnt present and I cant reasonably hold
AESEL responsible for Js failure in this situation.
section 75 and C
It looks as if there was a d-c-s relationship in place between Mr G, AESEL and C - in that C
agreed to book flights for Mr G. So, I have considered whether there was a breach of
contract and/or misrepresentation by C. Im satisfied that C was required to provide services 
with reasonable skill and care under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  and thats 
reflected in Cs standard contract terms, which seem to have been incorporated.
When Mr G made the original booking with C in 2018 the relevant paperwork states the 
flights would all be provided by J. Theres no dispute that a change was made to this 
booking about ten days before Mr G was due to travel. Mr G told us this happened because 
C telephoned him (in March 2019) to say J was having financial problems and C offered to 
refund the cost of the flights that he had booked in November or re-book them. Mr Gchose to re-book because he had very little flexibility about his travel dates but, he says he
told C to use a safer airline, E, as he wanted nothing to do with J. 
C, on the other hand, says the original flights were cancelled by J. And when C got in touch 
with Mr G to see what he wanted to do, he was offered a refund but decided to re-book 
instead - under arrangements J made with other airlines - and alternative flights were re-
booked accordingly.
I cant be certain what was said exactly when Mr G and C discussed these changes. I
understand (from Mr G) that this was all agreed in a phone call and theres nothing in writing.
So, Ive looked at the paperwork created at the time, and the wider circumstances, in order
to decide what I think is most likely to have happened. I consider the crux of Mr Gs 
complaint is he told C specifically - during the phone call in March 2019 - that he wanted to 
re-book flights so that J was not involved, C knew J was in financial trouble but didnt do so 
and C, in effect, misrepresented the flights that were rebooked at the time. This is not a 
criticism of Mr G, but Im not persuaded thats likely  from the evidence Ive seen so far  
and Ill explain why.
C says they contacted Mr G in mid-March 2019 because J had cancelled Mr Gs flights. Mr
G told us thats not right - as his outbound flights, for example, remained in Js schedule. I
Checked this and I think Mr G is correct to say the scheduled flights he booked for 31 March
2019 did go ahead. But, Im not persuaded that means C misled him. I also checked the 
trade and national press around this time and it looks as if J was re-structuring its routes and
timetables (due in part to financial problems) so a number of scheduled flights were
cancelled. As a result, passengers seem to have been offered a refund or alternative flights
with partner airlines. This included passengers whose flights were still scheduled  in
order to accommodate passengers who couldnt travel at a different time and were
transferred to those flights still taking place.
I think its more likely than not this was the position when C rang Mr G  in that Mr G was
offered a refund or the opportunity to re-book via J with a partner airline, E. I accept Mr G
may well have told C that hed prefer to travel with E in the circumstances, but Im not
persuaded thats the same as saying he didnt want J to be involved  which I suspect would
have involved processing a refund and re-booking flights elsewhere at whatever price could
be obtained at that time. Instead, as far as I can see, there was no difference in the price of
the flights and C didnt charge an administration fee  which, it would have been entitled to
under its standard terms if Mr G had required the booking change  not J. 
Im satisfied the e-ticket receipts for the re-booked outward and return flights also state fairly
clearly that the airline was J and the flights would be operated by E. Mr G seems to be a
relatively experienced traveller and, if he wanted to exclude J from his travel arrangements
specifically, Id expect him to have raised this with C when he received the paperwork - but
he didnt. I appreciate Mr G says he trusted C and didnt really think to check the tickets but,
again, Id expect him to reasonably have done so, if this was a particular concern at that
time. In addition, I cant see that Mr G mentioned hed specifically instructed C not to involve
J when he raised his complaint initially with C and AESEL either. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not C offered to re-book these flights in line with Js
arrangements with partner airlines, such as E, and thats the offer C conveyed to Mr G -
which he accepted. On the evidence Ive seen, I cant fairly find that was misrepresented. I
appreciate, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr G feels that C should have done more to protect
him. But, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to find C should have anticipated that J
would cease trading in April 2019 and cancel Mr Gs re-booked flights, on the current
evidence.Mr G says the flights should have been ATOL protected and C should have done more to
assist when they were cancelled - under the terms of the ATOL scheme. I have considered
the ATOL terms. Im not persuaded that these flights were protected. I say this because it
appears they were booked flight only - not as part of a package - and Mr G confirmed he
didnt receive an ATOL certificate at the time of booking. I appreciate Mr G says he assumed
ATOL protection applied because this was the case when he booked flights in the past. But
he confirmed he didnt raise this at the time with C. And Ive seen nothing to show C misled
Mr G about ATOL protection here. '
I understand Mr G feels it was wrong of C to charge for replacement flights in April - as these
were booked with E, the operator of the cancelled flights  and they were given the same 
seats theyd booked originally. I can see why it feels unfair to Mr G that he had to pay twice 
especially when the two airlines, J and E, are connected and I have sympathy for the 
situation Mr G finds himself in. But, its not part of my remit to investigate the relationship 
between the airlines in question, in the circumstances here and I cant fairly find that E 
requiring Mr G to pay for replacement flights amounts to breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, on the part of C.
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account, I am not satisfied that there was a breach of
contract and Im not persuaded its likely that C made a misrepresentation. I realise this
decision will probably come as a disappointment to Mr G but, for the reasons Ive set out, I
cant reasonably require AESEL to provide a refund or do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further
comments or evidence by no later than the 12 March 2021, after which time I would look at 
all of the available evidence and make my final decision.
Both parties have acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. Neither party has made 
any further comment or provided further submissions. And I see no reasonable grounds to 
depart from my provisional conclusions, in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman