DRN-4062180
The complaint
Mr O complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on a group 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O is insured under his employers group income protection policy. The policy provides 
cover for Mr Os own occupation and includes a deferred period of 28 weeks.
In February 2022, Mr O was signed off from work. His GP noted that Mr O was suffering 
from insomnia, although on his claim form, Mr O referred to other symptoms he was 
suffering from  including low mood, listlessness and body aches. Mr O was referred to 
occupational health (OH) by his employer. The OH adviser felt Mr O was unfit for work, due 
to his reported symptoms of exhaustion and chronic insomnia. They also referred to Mr O 
having work-related concerns. Mr O remained unfit for work and so his employer made an 
incapacity claim on the income protection insurance policy. The deferred period ended in 
August 2022.
Unum assessed the available medical evidence, including with members of its clinical team. 
It noted that Mr O had been on anti-depressant medication for a number of years and it felt 
Mr O had reported some psycho-social stressors. It also considered Mr Os GP records, 
which showed that a GP had suggested that Mr O should attempt a return to work, but that 
he hadnt done so. While Mr O had provided a report from a psychiatrist (who Ill call Dr A) 
which suggested that he suffered from recurrent depression and generalised fear, Unum 
didnt think this indicated that Mr O had suffered a significant change in his clinical situation. 
So it concluded that Mr O hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity and it turned down his 
claim.
Mr O appealed and he provided Unum with a further letter from another psychiatrist (who Ill 
call Dr P), dated September 2022. This stated that Mr O now had the features of a severe 
depressive episode and generalised anxiety disorder. The letter also stated that Mr O was 
due to start psychological therapy.
Unum considered Dr Ps letter, but it maintained its decision to decline Mr Os claim. It had 
asked Mr O for details of his treating GP (after hed changed practices), so it could obtain 
up-to-date medical records. But this information hadnt been forthcoming. And it didnt think 
Dr Ps letter showed that Mr O had been incapacitated for the duration of the deferred period 
 between February and August 2022. 
Unhappy with Unums decision, Mr O asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld. He considered the available 
medical evidence and he didnt think it had been unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr O 
hadnt shown he met the definition of incapacity for the whole of the deferred period.
Mr O disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He said that hed 
been feeling so physically and mentally unwell that he wasnt able to perform the duties of 
his role. He didnt think the investigator had fully considered Dr P and Dr As reports. He felt 
that the symptoms hed reported during the deferred period were symptoms of depression 
and generalised anxiety disorder. He didnt think it was fair for Unum or the investigator to 
rely on the GPs note regarding his fitness to work  he said that the GP hadnt been his 
usual GP and that their specialism was in an entirely different area. Multiple health 
professionals had said he wasnt fit for work and he questioned what further evidence he 
could provide. He didnt think the investigator had taken into account that he could have 
been suffering from long Covid following an infection. He disputed that work-related 
concerns were a cause of his illness and didnt think such a finding was supported by the 
medical evidence.
Subsequently, Mr O provided further medical evidence from Dr P, dated March 2023, in 
support of his claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr O, I dont think that Unum has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mr O that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr O needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
It's also important that I set out the parameters of this decision. I will only be considering 
whether it was fair for Unum to decline the claim and maintain that claims decision, based on 
the evidence available to it when it issued its final response to Mr Os complaint in October 
2022. Mr O has since provided us with new medical evidence from Dr P in support of his 
claim. However, this evidence is dated March 2023 and so it necessarily wasnt available to 
Unum when it initially assessed Mr Os claim and looked into his complaint. That means it 
wouldnt be fair for me to take that evidence into account when reaching my decision. Its 
open to Mr O to send this evidence on to Unum though, along with any other medical 
evidence it hasnt yet had a chance to consider, for it to review. If Mr O is unhappy with the 
outcome of any further assessment of any new medical evidence by Unum, he may be able 
to make a new complaint about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought about, amongst other 
things, the terms of Mr Os policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether 
Unum handled Mr Os claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Os policy, as these form the basis of his 
employers contract with Unum. Mr Os employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum to 
consider whether Mr Os claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look 
at Unums definition of incapacity. This says:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:- Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation, and are
- Not performing any occupation.
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out their main duties of their own 
occupation. In Mr Os case, it means that Unum needs to be satisfied that his illness 
prevented him from performing the material and substantial duties of his role.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Os responsibility to provide Unum with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out his duties.
Unum assessed the evidence Mr O provided in support of his claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that he had a significant mental health condition or that he met the policy 
definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to assess 
whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to reach.
The policy says that: Monthly benefit payments become payable when a members 
incapacity continues past the end of the deferred periodMonthly benefits are payable from 
the day after the end of the deferred period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, 
a policyholder mustve been incapacitated in line with the policy terms, for the entire deferred 
period and afterwards.
Mr Os deferred period ended on 22 August 2022 and so any benefit would become payable 
under the policy from 23 August 2022. As such, for the claim to be payable, Mr O needed to 
provide Unum with medical evidence to show that he had been prevented from carrying out 
the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation because of an illness that had 
caused him to be unable to work between February 2022 and August 2022.
Unum reviewed Mr Os medical records and it assessed the available medical evidence, 
including with clinical members of staff. It first considered Mr Os claim form. He reported 
insomnia, low mood, listlessness, irritability, concentration issues, general worry about life 
events and worldwide issues, along with worries about his family life. He stated that he used 
to be able to work under pressure, but that he now struggled to make decisions and 
concentrate.  He stated that he felt anxious. He felt he needed to recover sleep patterns in 
order to recover, along with the right medication and exercise. It doesnt appear that Mr O 
provided a definitive diagnosis of a significant illness at this point.
Next, Unum considered the OH reports provided in February and March 2022. The February 
2022 report states that Mr O was signed-off from work citing insomnia. It also refers to Mr O 
suffering from flu-like symptoms and body aches. The report says that Mr O told the OH that 
hed been suffering from insomnia for several monthsand perceives this may have 
contributed to his flu symptoms, as he has been feeling fatigued and has frequent colds. 
The report also says that Mr O had been referred for CBT with a sleep therapist.
The March 2022 OH report refers to similar symptoms. It states that Mr Os insomnia had 
been going on for several months. It also says that at his initial OH assessment: he cited 
some work concerns and he was advised to discuss these with his manager on his return to 
work. He feels some therapy for stress management may be helpful.
While the OH concluded that Mr O wasnt fit for work, they didnt explain how his symptoms 
of insomnia prevented him from working nor did they indicate that Mr O would be unable to 
return to work for the foreseeable future.Mr Os GP record shows that in 2013, he was suffering from a depressed mood and was 
prescribed medication. It appears he continued to be prescribed anti-depressant medication 
for a number of years. In January 2021, a GP noted that Mr O was struggling with his sleep 
and low mood. In January 2022, a GP noted that Mr O had suffered poor sleep recently and 
stress  referring to Mr Os employment. 
On 7 February 2022, Mr O was signed off with chronic stress and insomnia. A follow-up fit 
note was issued in March 2022, which also cited insomnia.
The GP notes of 6 April 2022 state that Mr O saw a GP. The record says that Mr O:
Wanted another fit note for insomnia. Discussed doing fit note and altered hours or phased 
return, he said he would not cope going back to workDiscussed better to try to go to work 
for a few hours, but patient declined. Will do 1 more fit note and then consider altered hours 
fit note.
Subsequently, on 5 May 2022, Mr O was signed off again with insomnia. The GP noted that 
Mr O had asked for a medical certificate extension and says he was not fit to go back to 
work. And in late May 2022, Mr O was again noted to have insomnia and recovering from 
Covid-19.
Mr O also provided a letter from Dr A, dated 9 August 2022. This stated that Mr O suffered 
from recurrent depression with fibromyalgia-like symptoms, insomnia, exhaustion, tiredness 
to the point of drowsiness, muscle pain and concentration problems.
Dr A recommended: behavioral [sic] therapy, sleep hygiene therapy, as well as doing 
endurance sports at least 3 x 30 minutes per weekin addition to the medication.
Unum weighed up the medical evidence. While it sympathised with Mr Os position, it noted 
that hed been on anti-depressants for a number of years before his absence started. It said 
it couldnt see a clear change in Mr Os clinical situation at the point he was signed-off from 
work. It also noted that his claim form and the OH reports referred to psycho-social and 
work-related stressors.
It also queried why Mr O had declined to follow the GPs suggestion that it was better for Mr 
O to attempt to return to work on a part-time basis. It didnt think there was clear or 
consistent evidence of an illness which prevented Mr O from working in his role for the entire 
deferred period.
Ive thought very carefully about this. I must make it clear that I am not a medical expert and 
so I make no finding on Mr Os diagnosis or whether he received appropriate medical care. 
Instead, I weigh up the available medical evidence, provided by experts in their field, to 
decide which I find most persuasive. Its clear that Mr O was suffering from symptoms which 
can also be indicative of a significant mental health condition. Ive noted too that he was  
prescribed medication and indeed, it appears Mr O sought help from a talking therapies 
service.
On the other hand, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to rely on the medical 
evidence it reviewed  and in particular, the comments made by both the OH and the GP 
record which suggested that Mr O ought to return to work on a part time basis. Whether or 
not the GP specialised in a different area of medicine; their clinical opinion seems to have 
been that Mr O was fit to work  at least part time. There do appear to have been psycho-
social stressors noted in Mr Os medical records and in the OH reports. And while Dr A 
referred to Mr Os ongoing depression symptoms, as well as those caused by insomnia, they 
didnt indicate that Mr O was unfit for work.Based on all Ive seen; I dont think Unum unfairly relied on the medical evidence which was 
available to it when it first concluded that Mr O hadnt shown he was incapacitated during the 
deferred period. 
Subsequently, Mr O provided Unum with a letter from Dr P, dated September 2022. This did 
state that Mr O now has all the features of a severe depressive episode and a diagnosis of 
generalised anxiety disorder. Mr Os medications were changed and the letter refers to Mr O 
beginning psychological therapy.
Unum reviewed this letter, including with its psychiatrist. It didnt think that this new evidence 
was sufficient to change its position. Thats because although it accepted there were 
significant changes in Mr Os mental health after the deferred period had ended, it didnt 
think there was enough evidence to show he was incapacitated throughout the deferred 
period. And it said this was the first time hed sought secondary care since his absence 
started. Ive thought about this very carefully. 
I note that Dr P refers to Mr Os symptoms worsening in Jan/Feb of 2022 and the letter 
states that Mr O had since felt so low, tired and anxious that he has been unable to work or 
indeed concentrate on much even while at home. Things deteriorated further in the past two 
months.
It's clear Mr Os condition had worsened by the time he saw Dr P. I dont doubt what a 
worrying time this was for him. But Dr P didnt indicate how or why Mr Os symptoms 
wouldve prevented him from carrying out the substantial and material duties of his role from 
February 2022 and throughout the deferred period. Neither did they make a clinical finding 
that Mr O hadnt been fit to work for the entirety of the deferred period. 
Im also mindful that Unum did seek to obtain further medical evidence before concluding its 
investigation into Mr Os complaint. As Mr Os medical records ended in May 2022, Unum 
asked Mr O for details of his new GP, so that it could ask for new records. These may have 
helped it to assess Mr Os state of health between June and August 2022 more clearly. 
However, Mr O didnt provide Unum with this information, despite its requests. This means I 
think it was reasonably entitled to rely on the medical evidence it already had. 
On that basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to maintain its earlier claims decision 
that Mr O hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity. As such, overall, despite my natural 
sympathy with Mr Os position, I find it was fair and reasonable for Unum to turn down his 
income protection claim in August 2022 and maintain its decision in October 2022. I would 
reiterate that if Mr O would like Unum to consider the new evidence hes now provided from 
Dr P, hell need to send this directly to Unum.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman