DRN-2417612
Complaint
Mr S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly gave him three loans he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
  
Background
Mr S was given loans of £500 (twice) and £350 in September 2015, July 2017 and 
September 2018. The loan was to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments and the second and 
third loans were due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments. None of the loans ran to term. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr S complaint. She thought that L2G unfairly provided all 
three loans to Mr S. L2G disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was 
passed to an ombudsman. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive been provided with, Im upholding Mr S 
complaint. 
L2G did gather some information from Mr S before deciding to lend to him. But simply 
requesting information from a prospective borrower, before providing a loan, wont in itself 
automatically mean that a lender acted fairly and reasonably. I say this because a lender 
needs to scrutinise any information obtained and react accordingly. 
In this case, L2G carried out credit checks which showed Mr S had taken a number of 
payday loans both in the period leading up to and during the course of his lending 
relationship with L2G. During this period, Mr S also defaulted on credit commitments and 
entered arrangements to pay on others. All of this were clear indications that Mr S was 
struggling with his existing debts and finding it difficult to make ends meet.  
I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for L2G to ignore this increasing problem 
indebtedness in favour of relying on overoptimistic income and expenditure assessment. In 
my view, L2G ought to have realised that Mr S existing debts were problematic and 
providing him with further credit meant it was increasing Mr S indebtedness in a way that 
was harmful. And in these circumstances, I think that L2G provided Mr S with these loans 
when it ought reasonably to have realised that he was in no position to be able to make the 
payments without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
As Mr S to paid an extraordinary amount of interest on loans that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, I think that Mr S lost out because L2G unfairly lent to him. This means Im 
upholding Mr S complaint and L2G needs to put things right.  
  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right
To put things right for Mr S, L2G should:
refund all interest fees and charges Mr S paid on his three loans; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of these loans.
HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give      
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman