DRN-3463506
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt approve her 
request to increase the credit limit on her account, or with the service she received from 
Barclays surrounding that request.
What happened
Miss G applied to increase the credit limit on her Barclays credit account. Barclays didnt 
agree to Miss Gs request. Miss G wasnt happy about this as she felt her financial position 
was such that her request should have been approved, and she also wasnt happy with the 
service she received from Barclays when she telephoned them to query their decision. So, 
she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Miss Gs complaint. They confirmed that they werent willing to increase 
the credit limit on Miss Gs credit account, but they felt that the standard of service Miss G 
had received from the agents hadnt been to the standard that Miss G should reasonably 
expect. Barclays apologised to Miss G for this and made a payment of £75 to her as 
compensation for any trouble and upset she may have incurred.
Miss G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Miss G by not increasing the credit limit on her account, and they felt that 
compensation that Barclays had paid Miss G already represented a reasonable outcome 
regarding the service aspect of her complaint. 
Miss G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. But before approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before 
increasing the amount of credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the 
business has a responsibility to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure 
that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Theres no set list of affordability checks that a credit provider must undertake, but to enable 
a reasonable understanding of a customers financial position, its common for credit 
providers to review the applicants credit file to check, among other things, whether that 
person is in arrears on any of their other existing credit commitments, as well as their total 
amount of existing credit in consideration of their monthly income and expected monthly 
essential spending. 
In this instance, Barclays have explained their reasoning for not approving Miss Gs request 
for further credit to this service, and having considered Barclays reasoning, Im satisfied that 
Barclays havent acted unfairly or unreasonably by making the decision to not provide further 
credit to Miss G as they did.
I understand that Miss G would like to better understand why her request for further credit 
wasnt approved. But a credit provider isnt obliged to provide detailed reasons for a declined 
credit application to a customer. One reason for this is because if such detailed information 
about the affordability checking processes of a credit provider did enter the public domain, 
that information may then be used by future credit applicants to circumnavigate those 
processes, thus compromising their effectiveness.
So, while I can appreciate Miss Gs frustration here, I wont be instructing Barclays to provide 
more detailed information as to why her request for further credit was declined. It also must 
be recognised that, ultimately, Barclays arent obliged to provide further credit to a customer 
at that customers request under any circumstances. Its always Barclays decision as to if 
theyre willing to do so.
Finally, Barclays acknowledged that Miss G didnt receive an appropriate standard of service 
when she telephoned to question why her application for further credit had been declined. 
Barclays have apologised to Miss G for this and paid compensation of £75 to her. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but I feel that the £75 that Barclays have already 
paid here does represent a fair resolution to this aspect of Miss Gs complaint, and I can 
confirm it's commensurate with what I would have instructed Barclays to pay, had they not 
already done so.
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss G was wanting, but it follows from all the above that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action here. I 
hope Miss G will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman