DRN-4296596
The complaint
Mr U complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) miscommunicated and misled him which 
ultimately ended up with a default being registered on his credit file.
What happened
Mr U has a personal loan with BoS, but due to him wanting to refinance his debt he visited a 
BoS branch to try and consolidate the rest of his debt into one loan, so he would only need 
to make one payment each month. Mr U says he was placed on a phone and the call 
handler told him they were unable to do this. Mr U says he was offered a three month 
payment holiday and he specifically asked if taking the holiday would impact his credit file. 
Mr U says that the call handler told him that it wouldnt impact his credit file. 
Mr U says he started to receive arrears notices from BoS. He made a payment to clear the 
arrears and paid more than the arrears amount. He then made a further payment to the loan 
account, but he says that he received a letter saying he was still £144.58 overdue, despite 
him recently paying £767.41. He says he then received a letter saying his account had been 
closed, defaulted, and transferred to a debt collection agency (DCA). Mr U made a complaint 
to BoS.
BoS did not uphold Mr Us complaint. They said that when they spoke to him in June 2022, a 
plan was put in place for three months. This was to allow him breathing space from making 
payments during this time. They said they wrote to him on 10 June 2022 detailing the plan 
and then again on 8 September 2022 when the plan came to an end. BoS said they later 
sent a default notice and a formal demand explaining there were still arrears outstanding, 
and they may close the account. They said as the arrears werent repaid by 9 November 
2022, they arranged to close the loan and transfer it to a DCA. Mr U brought his complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Us complaint. He said there was no evidence that Mr U 
made contact with BoS after September 2022 to set up a new payment plan to cover the 
minimum payments and to clear the arrears. He said this was a term of the payment break 
and the consequences of not adhering to this had been explained to Mr U, so he was unable 
to agree that BoS acted outside of their terms and conditions. He said that as no new 
payment plan was set up taking into account the arrears on the account and the minimum 
payments, the account would have remained in arrears.
Mr U asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the verbal assurance provided during the call indicated that no 
accumulation of payments would occur. The absence of any correspondence acknowledging 
the payment break and its terms further complicated the situation. He said parts of the call 
were inaudible and sections of the call made it challenging for him to fully comprehend the 
terms discussed. Mr U says that he was under the impression that the payments made in 
September, specifically £184 on 7 September, and £400 on 29 September 2022, would 
cover the arrears. He said these payments were a direct response to receiving arrears 
letters, which led him to believe that something was amiss.
Mr U also said he expressed his preference to leave the loan as it was, but he was 
reassured that no accumulation of payments would occur and no lump sum would be 
necessary. He said he never received a text message reminder that the adviser assured him 
he would get along with the letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Us complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
Ive listened to the phone call which Mr U had where the nil payment plan was set up. Just 
before 30 minutes of the call recording, the call handler says so, during this time, the 
amount you are behind by will increase during the plan, a plan to clear this will need to be 
put in place after this freeze ends. He is told that when the plan ends he would need to set 
up a new plan for more than the contractual monthly payment so he can get his account up 
to date. 
The call handler talks about the impact on Mr Us credit file. He tells Mr U the plan is 
designed to give Mr U more time to improve his situation, and it will also stop a default 
appearing on his credit file for now. But he explains that if things dont improve and they 
need to close his account then a default will appear on his credit file for six years. He tells Mr 
U that the longer he does make reduced repayments then the greater the impact of this 
would be on his credit score. He says your credit file will show you have a plan in place with 
us, and you must get in touch with us as soon as this plan ends, if you dont do this then 
there will be an impact on your credit score and a default may appear on your credit file.  
Mr U asks if he was to do a three month break, would the payments accumulate, and he 
asked if he would need to make that payment after the end of the three months. The call 
handler says no no, not after the three months and hes told he wouldnt need to make 
three lots of payments in one go. He says that once the nil payment plan expires, Mr U 
would call them back up and theyd look at another plan in clearing the arrears and the loan 
itself. So he explains the payments would be slightly higher. Mr U confirms this makes 
sense. 
The call handler reiterates that once the plan is up, Mr U would need to give them a call to 
set up a new plan for between 2-12 months to clear the arrears but confirms Mr U could 
make a lump sum payment. Mr U says with regards to his loan, he wants to leave that as it is 
as he would forget to turn the direct debit on. The call handler says thats not how it works as 
Mr U would need to do everything as they would send him correspondence as well as texts. 
The call handler says if Mr U has more outgoings than income he has a duty of care to look 
after him. Mr U says I see and asks for the plan to be put in place for three months.
The call handler reads a script to Mr U, and Mr U confirms its all good. The call handler 
says Mr U will get letters from them which will explain whats going on. The call handler 
gives Mr U their telephone number and he tells Mr U he will receive a letter. At 42 minutes 
the call handler says so youll receive a letter, and it will give you the dates and everything 
that weve discussed. He explains the plan will end around 7/8 September and he says if 
you give us a call, erm around that date, Mr U says ok, the call handler says we can look at what weve got, what your situation is, hopefully its improved and then we can look at 
putting a new longer term plan in place. The call handler reiterates it is not a payment 
holiday and it is a temporary plan. He asks if things make sense and Mr U confirms it does. 
The call handler says he will put it in place for Mr U.  
Ive considered whether Mr U was misled on the call. Im not persuaded that he was and Ill 
explain why. He was told the nil payment plan would be shown as a plan on his credit file  
and it was from the screenshot that Mr U provided to us of his credit file. And the call handler 
was correct that Mr U was not required to make the three months arrears up at the end of 
the plan. Mr U may question what Ive said here, as thats what ended up happening. But 
this only happened when Mr U did not get in contact with BoS at the end of his plan as he 
had been told on more than one occasion that he needed to do this and he agreed to do this 
as detailed in the previous paragraph.
So when Mr U did not get in touch with BoS to set up a new plan (which as the call handler 
had explained would result in a higher monthly payment to pay his arrears and to also pay 
his contractual monthly payment), then this is why BoS demanded the arrears to be repaid. 
The call handler mentioned letters and texts, and he was clear Mr U would get a letter about 
the plan. While Mr U says he didnt receive this letter, the letter is addressed to the address 
on his credit agreement. So Im satisfied this was the registered address Mr U gave them. I 
have noticed a slight difference to this address to the one Mr U put on his complaint form to 
our service, which I cant document here to protect his identity, but as Mr U agreed this was 
his address on the credit agreement, then I would expect BoS to send any post to the 
address on his credit agreement. I have detailed the slight difference to Mr U in the covering 
letter with this decision. But as Mr U has said he did receive some letters from BoS, its not 
clear if the slight difference of address had any impact here or whether he didnt receive 
some letters due to delivery errors from the postal service  which would be out of BoS 
control.
Ive seen no evidence that BoS send any texts as part of this process. So it may be that Mr 
U was expecting a text. But Im not persuaded Mr U not getting a text changes the outcome 
of this complaint. I say this as the call handler was clear Mr U needed to get in touch with 
them, told him the date and Mr U said ok. The call handler was also clear that BoS would 
be sending Mr U a letter with the details of the nil payment plan. So if Mr U did not receive a 
letter or text shortly after the plan was set up, it would have been proportionate for him to 
contact BoS regarding this, but BoS say that Mr U had not got in contact with them after the 
nil payment plan had been set up.
BoS have requirements they need to follow which may mean they have to send certain 
letters by post, so this would not be emailed to him even if his preference is to receive 
paperless communication and he may have received other information about his loan via this 
method. The letter dated 10 June 2022 clearly sets out to Mr U that he needs to get in touch 
with them towards the end of the plan, and this letter shows the plan ends on 8 September. 
So the date that the call handler told Mr U he needed to get in touch with them is aligned to 
the date in the letter. And it shows that being behind with his payments could affect his credit 
score. 
When the plan ended, and Mr U did not contact BoS to return to his contractual monthly 
payments (and to pay back the arrears over a period of time  not immediately), then this is 
why the full arrears were asked to be repaid when he hadnt contacted them to arrange a 
new plan and return to his contractual monthly payment. As Mr U then needed to pay the 
arrears and the contractual monthly payment, he kept getting arrear notices as he didnt 
contact BoS to set up his direct debit payment again, so his monthly repayments were being 
missed. Although he had made payments in September and November, he did not pay his contractual monthly payment on time after the plan had ended.
Even though BoS told Mr U he needed to contact them when the plan ended and he didnt, 
they sent a letter to his registered address dated 8 September 2022, which contained the 
text Please call us on the above number as soon as possible to discuss your options for 
repaying your arrears or to make a full arrears payment. Its important to make you aware 
that fees and charges may now be applied. If youve paid the arrears in full since the date of 
this letter, thank you and please make sure you maintain your future monthly payments as 
they fall due. But again, Mr U didnt contact them and he didnt maintain his future monthly 
payments as they fell due. This caused arrears to continue on Mr Us account and his 
payments at this point werent enough to both clear the total arrears when he hadnt made a 
new plan with them and make his contractual payments. 
After BoS had sent Mr U a default notice, they addressed another letter to him dated 15 
October 2022 which said in bold text Please get in touch in the next 14 days about the 
missed payments on your loan. The letter is clear that If you dont get in touch in the next 
14 days, well end your loan agreement with us. Well then ask you to repay the full loan 
amount, not just the payments youre behind on. But as Mr U did not get in touch with them 
after 14 days, they closed his account and registered a default. So I cant say they made an 
error in doing this when Mr U did not contact them to make a new plan including returning to 
making his contractual monthly payments.
Ive considered what Mr U has said about parts of the call being inaudible and sections of 
the call made it challenging for him to fully comprehend the terms discussed. He also said he 
thought something was amiss with the arrears notices. But if he felt parts of the call were 
inaudible, I would expect for him to ask the call handler to repeat himself or ask for a further 
explanation. While he did say at one point his preference to leave the loan as it was, he 
ultimately did agree to the nil payment plan. If Mr U thought something was amiss with the 
arrears notices, I would expect him to contact BoS as he was told he would need to do this 
when the nil payment plan was expiring and in the letters that BoS sent him. So it follows I 
dont require BoS to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman