DRN-3515056
The complaint
G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed its account.
Mr P is the director of G and has brought this complaint on its behalf.
What happened
G had a business account with Barclays. In November 2021 it wrote to Mr P to explain that it 
would be closing Gs account on 18 February 2022.
Mr P complained as he didnt think this was fair. He said this would cause him difficulty in 
obtaining a business recovery loan he had applied for and was causing him a level of stress 
that was impacting his health. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr P brought it to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said Barclays had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account so didnt think it 
had acted unreasonably. 
Mr P didnt agree. He thought our investigator hadnt given enough consideration to the 
impact the matter had had on his health and his ability to continue the business. And he 
thought Barclays had closed the account because it had been directed to make a payment 
as part of a previous complaint, which he thought was unfair. He asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to first decide if a business has got something wrong. 
And where I find it has, I need to consider what it should do to put things right for its 
customer. 
Banks have the discretion to make a commercial decision about who they have as 
customers. And as such, can make a decision to end relationships with customers if they 
see fit. And this isnt something this service would generally interfere with unless it was 
unlawful or the bank hadnt followed its own processes correctly. 
Here, I can see that the terms of Barclays business account state that its able to close an 
account as long as it gives its customer two months notice. In Mr Ps case Barclays informed 
him of the closure in November 2021 and initially said the account would close in February 
2022, although this was later extended to the end of March. As these dates exceed the 
notice required, Im satisfied that Barclays has correctly followed its process. So I dont find 
that it has got anything wrong. 
I appreciate the closure of this account, and others, have caused Mr P great distress and 
inconvenience. Ive read all the information hes provided about the impact its had, including 
the statement from his doctor and I sympathise greatly with the position he is in. However as 
Ive not found that Barclays has got anything wrong, or acted unfairly, I cant hold it 
responsible for the consequences of the account closure. 
Barclays have the contractual right to end a relationship with its customers, and as part of 
this it doesnt need to consider whether that customer will experience a loss or impact as a 
result. So while I can see this matter has caused Mr P difficulties, I havent found that 
Barclays has acted unfairly and it has done what it is required to do as part of the contract 
with G. So I wont ask it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf of 
G, to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman