DRN-3224870
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ripe Insurance Services Limited trading as Insure4Boats didnt make 
the terms of the boat insurance policy he bought clear, at the point of sale.
What happened
Mr T had a yacht that he was looking to insure. In April 2019 he got a quote online for a 
policy with Insure4Boats, which he later bought over the phone. However after purchasing 
the policy he wanted to make sure that it covered him for multiple types of moorings, so he 
emailed Insure4Boats to check it would. He received a response asking for more information 
which he responded to. However he didnt hear anything further after this.
In April 2020 his policy renewed. And a few months later, Mr T realised he hadnt been 
covered for all moorings and cancelled the policy. He made a complaint to Insure4Boats as 
he said he hadnt been properly insured for all the time hed been on cover.
After some problems locating Mr Ts emails from April 2019, Insure4Boats accepted he had 
contacted it and it hadnt responded. However it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had 
provided enough information about the policy when he took it out and it was for Mr T to 
ensure the policy covered his requirements. 
Mr T didnt agree, he said his yacht had been uninsured for the period he had been paying 
for the insurance so thought the premiums should be refunded. He brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she thought 
Insure4Boats had provided enough information about the policy cover when Mr T took it out. 
And as Mr T had been insured for over a year, he would have had benefit from the cover if 
he claimed for other elements. So didnt think it was fair to ask it to refund Mr T the 
premiums he had paid. 
Mr T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to first decide if the business in question got 
something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what the impact of that was on its customer 
and what it should do to put things right.
Here Mr T has said that he wasnt provided with enough information when he took out his 
boat insurance policy. And if he had received a response to his email he would have realised 
the policy didnt cover his requirements and would have cancelled it.
I agree with Mr T that he has received poor service from Insure4Boats. It didnt respond to 
his email and was unable to find the email when he raised this with it. However I dont agree 
that Insure4Boats needs to do anything to put things right, Ill explain why.
Firstly, while Insure4Boats didnt respond to Mr Ts email, the concerns he expressed show 
that he wasnt sure whether the policy would cover him for all types of moorings. When he 
purchased the policy, the documentation, including the full policy wording was sent to him by 
email. This included wording about the exclusions for moorings. So even without the 
response from Insure4Boats directly, he could have checked the policy to make sure it was 
suitable.
Further, Mr T originally requested a quote for the policy online. And Insure4Boats has 
explained that after an online quote is requested a link to the full policy documents is sent to 
the customers email address. This includes an Important Information document that states 
under what is not insured:
Any loss or damage occurring whilst Your Vessel is left afloat when unattended, unless at a 
moored location shown in your policy
So I think this is enough to notify Mr T that there were limitations to the cover for moorings. 
And he would have had a chance to look at the policy documents before he took it out. 
As the policy was provided as part of a non-advised sale, the onus is on Mr T to ensure it 
meets his needs and requirements. And Im satisfied that Insure4Boats gave him clear and 
not mis-leading information in order for him to do this.
Finally, even if I agreed with Mr T that Insure4Boats didnt provide clear information about 
the policy when he took it out, I dont think Mr T has lost out as a result. 
Mr T had insurance for his yacht during the period he was paying the premiums. And while 
this didnt cover him for the excluded moorings and locations, it did provide cover for while 
his boat was moored at home, in a boatyard or on a pontoon, swing mooring or at anchor, 
while it was not left unattended. So as he had the benefit of that cover had he of needed to 
claim, it wouldnt be fair to ask Insure4Boats to refund his premiums. 
And while it would have been frustrating for Mr T to not have received a response from 
Insure4Boats, I dont think the impact was enough to warrant asking it to pay compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman