DRN-2286337
The complaint
Ms K is represented in this complaint by her solicitor, to whom she has granted a power of 
attorney. Her complaint is that National Westminster Bank Plc has been ignoring 
correspondence from both of them.
What happened
Several years ago Ms K executed a power of attorney in which she named her solicitor, 
Mr C, as the donee. This was because she was moving to live permanently abroad, and she 
needed someone in the UK to manage her bank account here, as her pension is paid to her 
through her NatWest account. The original deed was deposited with a branch of NatWest. In 
March 2019, Mr C wrote to the bank to ask it to send him her bank statements. In this letter, 
he mentioned that Ms K had written a number of letters to the bank but had received no 
reply. On receiving no reply to his letter, Mr C wrote a second letter in April, a third letter in 
May, and a fourth letter in June. In the fourth letter he raised a formal complaint that both he 
and his client were being ignored by the bank.
Meanwhile in late May, between Mr Cs third and fourth letters, NatWest sent its final 
response letter to Ms Ks former address in the UK (having treated Mr Cs third letter as a 
complaint), because it had not received a formal request to update her address to the one 
overseas. In this letter, NatWest apologised for the delay in responding, and said that it 
could not reply to Mr C because it did not have the power of attorney deed (which was not 
true). This letter did not otherwise address the banks failure to reply to Ms Ks own letters. 
So Mr C brought this complaint to our Service, on her behalf (and sent us a certified copy of 
the deed).
NatWest told our investigator that it actually did have the deed, but had not updated the 
account accordingly because there was a form that Mr C had to fill in first, and he was 
required to attend the branch to do this. Until that happened, it could not allow him access to 
the account. But it said it had still sent bank statements to Mr C, as requested, in early April. 
Mr C did not receive these, but our investigator did not think that was NatWests fault. The 
investigator also thought that, having already sent the bank statements, the bank did not 
have to reply to Mr Cs subsequent letters. The investigator did not uphold this complaint. 
Mr C did not accept that opinion. He said there was no excuse for the bank not replying to 
the letters he had sent after it had sent the statements (and he was not convinced that the 
statements had ever been sent). He said the banks refusal to engage meaningfully with him 
or with his client had caused Ms K to incur avoidable legal fees, and had inconvenienced 
her. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to both parties, and to Mr C, for how long it 
has taken for this case to be assigned to an ombudsman.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No explanation has been given for why NatWest did not reply to Ms Ks own letters. It might 
be because they were not sent from the old UK address the bank still had on file for her, but 
from her new overseas address. I accept (in the absence of any suggestion to the contrary) 
that she had not told the bank that she had permanently moved. So even if the bank had 
replied, it would have had to send the replies to her old address in the UK, and she would 
still not have received them. So I am not minded to uphold that part of this complaint.
According to NatWests internal notes, it sent Mr C the bank statements hed asked for in his 
first letter. It took a full month to get around to doing this, but it did it before he sent the 
second letter. I accept that they were sent. I also accept that Mr C did not receive them, but 
I cannot be satisfied that this is NatWests fault. They may have been lost in the post, for 
example, and I cant hold the bank responsible for that.
The statements and Mr Cs second letter may well have crossed in the post, but I dont 
agree that that is a good enough excuse for not replying to the second letter. It would have 
been professional to acknowledge having received it. If that had been NatWests only error, 
then I would not have considered this to be worthy of financial compensation, but it was 
compounded by the banks failure to reply to Mr Cs third letter, in which he said that he had 
still not received any response to his first two letters. I think that on receiving the third letter, 
NatWest should have sent him the statements again. It should also have informed him that it 
was not willing to do more than that until he attended the branch and completed the banks 
process for registering the power of attorney. (Indeed, NatWest should have told him that in 
its reply to his first letter, when it sent the bank statements, but if that correspondence was 
not received then the banks failure to explain that was harmless.)
NatWest did respond to Mr Cs third letter, in the sense that it sent a final response letter to 
Ms K at her old address. But I dont think that was enough, because it did not enclose the 
statements she had asked for, even though it knew by then that her solicitor had not 
received the original batch of statements.
NatWest did not reply to Mr Cs fourth letter. If it was not willing to correspond with him 
because he had not completed the banks internal process for setting up a power of attorney, 
then it ought to at least have written to him to tell him that much. It told Ms K that in its letter 
to her, but I dont think that was enough, because by then it had received information that 
she was now living abroad, so she might not receive a letter sent to her old address. I cannot 
award compensation for any inconvenience caused to Mr C, because he is not an eligible 
complainant in his own right. But I can award compensation to Ms K for her own 
inconvenience. Mr C has said that because of the delays caused by NatWest, Ms K has 
incurred legal fees, which I assume are for his letters. I invite him to tell me how much these 
fees come to, and to elaborate on the impact the delay in obtaining statements has had on 
her, so that I can assess how much to award her if I uphold this complaint in my final 
decision.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr C told me that he expects to bill Ms K for four hours' work at £350 plus VAT an hour. He 
says that three and a half hours of that was for his correspondence with the bank and the 
branch visits, and half an hour in relation to bringing this complaint to our Service. (I shared 
this information with NatWest, and it had nothing to add to this or to my provisional decision.)
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not award compensation for the costs incurred in bringing this complaint, since it is 
generally not necessary to obtain legal representation to bring a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Ms K could have emailed us herself. Her remaining costs total £1,225 
plus VAT, or £1,470. So I will award that, plus a further £250 for her inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Pay Ms K £1,720, and 
Engage with Mr C and actively assist him in completing the banks process for 
recognising Ms Ks power of attorney.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020. Mr C may reply on her behalf.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman