DRN-2343577
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in or 
around April 1996. Mr and Mrs Y say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, 
mis-sold them PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ys circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ys representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ys. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ys complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Whilst most of the sale paperwork is no longer available, Ive noticed that Mr and Mrs Y 
havent said they didnt know they had agreed to take out this policy, or that they were told 
they had to have it. So I think its fair to conclude they agreed to take out the policy because 
it was a form of protection they wanted to have. This is supported by the BoS records Ive 
seen showing they both answered questions at the time to show they were both eligible for 
the cover. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mr and Mrs Y were 
both eligible for the cover and were entitled to benefits from their employers if they were 
unable to work. But it looks like the PPI would have lasted for longer than their sick pay, 
being 6 months at full pay followed by 6 months at half pay. Also, given how long theyd 
each been in their job, I think the PPI would have lasted for longer than their redundancy 
entitlement as well. Mr and Mrs Y also told us that theyd have been entitled to a death in 
service payment from their employers. But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate 
event of their death  and not if they were off sick or lost their job. 
There was nothing else Ive seen about Mr and Mrs Ys employment or occupation which 
would have made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mr Y told us about a medical 
condition he had in or around 1990 I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended 
the PPI, given that it was properly treated at the time and only led to him taking a day off 
work.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs Y as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and 
Mrs Y would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and other exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for 
them. So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs Y would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ys representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ys representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ys individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ys particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman