DRN-2671916
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Revolut Ltd changed its policy on accepting payments from abroad. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs A contacted Revolut to check whether it would accept a payment from 
another country. Revolut confirmed Mrs A could transfer funds from the country in question. 
In February 2020 Mrs A sent a substantial transfer to her Revolut account from the country 
in question. But, regulations had changed and Revolut says it was no longer able to accept 
payments from the country Mrs A had previously discussed.  As a result, Revolut sent the 
funds back to the original bank. Mrs A has explained she lost out on around $1,500 in 
commission as a result of the returned payment. 
Mrs A complained but Revolut didnt agree it had made an error. Revolut says that the 
regulations surrounding transfers from the country in question had changed between Mrs As 
original query and the date she made the transfer. As a result, Revolut could no longer 
accept the payment Mrs A sent. 
Mrs A referred her complaint to our service and said Revolut shouldve told her when the 
rules changed. Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint and said Revolut had acted 
in line with the account terms and conditions. Mrs A asked to appeal, so her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs A is upset and I that she was acting on information she had 
previously checked when she sent a transfer in February 2020. Ive read the online chats 
Mrs A had with Revolut and can see she in April 2019 she was told the transfers from the 
country in question were allowed. 
The issue here is that the regulations that set out what international transfers Revolut could 
accept changed between April 2019, when Mrs A checked, and February 2020, when the 
transfer was attempted. Revolut has confirmed that the rules changed which meant it wasnt 
able to accept the transfer Mrs A sent in February 2020, despite previously being able to. As 
Revolut has to act in line with the regulations it operates under, I havent found it made an 
error when the transfer wasnt accepted in February 2020. 
Mrs A has told us she thinks Revolut shouldve told her when the new regulation came into 
effect. I take Mrs As point, but I dont think its realistic to expect a business to tell its 
customers each time a new rule or regulation is put in place. 
The countries businesses accept transfers can change without notice. Revolut isnt the party 
that decides what regulations it has to abide by. I wouldnt expect Revolut to have 
specifically notified Mrs A it was no longer able to accept transfers from the country she had 
previously enquired about. 
I also think Revolut makes a reasonable point when it says Mrs A relied on advice she was 
given around 10 months before the transfer was attempted. Ultimately, in the intervening 
period the rules it operates under changed. But Im satisfied that the advice, when it was 
given, was an accurate reflection of the situation and rules. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs A but I havent found that Revolut misled her in April 2019 or 
that it made an error by rejecting the transfer in April 2020. As I havent found Revolut made 
an error or treated Mrs A unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman