DRN-4049462
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as F, complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC handled its request 
to open a new charity account.
Mr Y, a trustee of F, brings the complaint on F's behalf.
What happened
In November 2021, on behalf of F, Mr Y applied online to open a charity bank account with 
Lloyds. In December, he phoned to continue the account opening process. Mr Y was 
advised that he would receive an application pack to complete and certain documents would 
be required. Mr Y says that he didnt receive this pack and had to phone repeatedly to chase 
it up until it was finally delivered.
Mr Y compiled the documents and sent everything back by recorded delivery. He didnt hear 
anything so chased things up again. Mr Y had to call on a few occasions. Eventually, Lloyds 
explained that the account mandate form was missing. However, Lloyds said that Mr Y could 
attend his local Bank of Scotland branch to deliver it. Unfortunately, when Mr Y tried to do 
this, it wasnt possible, resulting in a wasted trip. Instead, Mr Y sent the form by recorded 
delivery.
Mr Y complained  and began a long-running engagement with Lloyds complaints 
department. 
In Lloyds response to this initial complaint, in January 2022, it apologised for the poor 
service it had provided. It acknowledged that arrangements should have been made with 
Mr Ys local Bank of Scotland branch to ensure it could scan and deliver the form as 
proposed. It sent F a cheque for £25 for the inconvenience caused. Although Mr Y refused to 
bank this cheque, this amount has now been paid. However, Lloyds didnt agree with Mr Ys 
complaint about the length of time taken to open Fs account or about not receiving the 
information sent to him in the post. Lloyds said that it couldnt open the account until all the 
required documents were returned and reviewed; and it says it sent packs to Mr Y in 
November, December and again in January. It confirmed that it had now received the 
mandate form.
Mr Y continued to chase for updates and press for the account to be opened. In early 
February, Lloyds said that Fs account was now operational, and sent Mr Y both a paying-in 
book and a cheque book for the account. However, it explained that it hadnt completed all 
its checks. Mr Y was surprised that, despite apparently opening the account, Lloyds hadnt 
sent him a welcome pack. He also requested internet banking and debit cards, but Lloyds 
said these wouldnt be provided while the account application process was ongoing. 
Mr Y also asked Lloyds for an account statement so that he could complete Fs gift aid 
registration with HMRC. Initially, the form Lloyds sent was insufficient but, subsequently, it 
did provide the statement he needed.
In mid-February, Lloyds contacted Mr Y to explain that there were various problems with Fs 
application. It said, among other things, that the proof of address for one trustee didnt match 
the application; the proof of address for another trustee had only a first initial for the first 
name so it wasnt clear to which trustee it related; the proof of address for two trustees didnt 
have the certification statement; F had not provided a letter confirming its trustees; and the 
mandate wasnt clear on whether it wanted all to sign or any one of the four authorised 
people to sign.
After further investigation, Lloyds phoned Mr Y back a few days later to explain that, 
unfortunately, Fs application had failed. There followed several more phone calls between 
Mr Y and Lloyds as Mr Y complained and sought updates on where to go next. 
In March, Mr Y submitted fresh documentation. However, further problems arose. At one 
time, Lloyds identified that the trust form showed a different name for one of the trustees 
compared with her identification document; and at another time that the beneficiary of the 
trust was recorded to be an individual (Mr B), which needed reconciling with the stated 
charitable purposes of the trust. Both these issues took a number of iterations to address. 
Mr Y explained that the difference in the trustees name was due to the trustees passport 
showing her maiden name and the trust form showing her married name. He provided the 
necessary evidence to support this  and was disappointed that Lloyds had only raised this 
problem when hed chased them, rather than pro-actively raising it with him. Mr Y also 
explained that, while the funds raised in the UK would be sent to Mr B in Pakistan, Mr B 
wasnt the eventual beneficiary as he would then distribute the funds to the charitable 
causes F was supporting. Again, Mr Y amended the forms to address Lloyds concerns. 
Mr Y says that Lloyds itself didnt seem to know what F needed to provide to demonstrate 
Mr Bs role and the ultimate beneficiary of the charity. He says it was only when the matter 
was eventually taken up with Lloyds experienced charity account handler that matters were 
clarified. 
On several occasions, things went wrong in the ongoing interactions. Sometimes Mr Y 
misspelt Lloyds, meaning that emails didnt go through. But Lloyds sometimes didnt send 
emails to Mr Y when it said it would, causing him to have to chase things up in more phone 
calls; sometimes it simply didnt reply to Mr Ys emails; and some communication from 
Lloyds to Mr Y felt to him discourteous, for example in attaching documents but without any 
message. 
The process continued for a further two months. Mr Y then complained again. In April, 
Lloyds issued its second response to Mr Ys complaints and, again, apologised for its poor 
service. It acknowledged that it had failed to contact Mr Y on numerous occasions to keep 
him informed about his application, and it sent him a cheque for a further £250 for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr Y never banked this cheque, and this amount has not been paid. 
Lloyds did not agree with Mr Ys concerns about the extent of the information it had 
requested, which it explained had all been necessary to complete its checks and to comply 
with its regulatory requirements.
Mr Y continued to press for updates. Having engaged for a few months with Lloyds 
complaints handling team about Fs application, Mr Y was disappointed that:
when one complaint handler left, there was little handover to the next handler 
responsible for taking on his case;
the new complaint handler admitted that she didnt have the expertise to address all 
his concerns and to help set up Fs account; and
when he was put through to a person in Lloyds account opening team who appeared 
able to help, despite her invitation to call her again whenever needed, she was never 
available to take his calls and didnt phone him back. On one occasion, when Mr Y was seeking confirmation over the phone that he was 
completing the forms correctly, it seemed to him that the person he was speaking with was 
relaying messages to the representative in Lloyds account opening team rather than putting 
him through, which he thought indicated that she didnt want to speak to him. 
In May, Mr Y complained again. He felt deeply frustrated. He says that the time lost due to 
Lloyds incompetence, unhelpfulness and protracted processes had cost F substantial 
fundraising income for its various charitable projects in Pakistan, including a sewing centre, 
wheelchairs and a water pump. He explained that Ramadan would have been a particularly 
significant period for fundraising, which had been missed. Although Fs bank account had 
remained operational, it was still not fully opened, with no internet banking or debit cards. He 
added that, despite asking Lloyds to send back the original trust documents he had 
provided, these had still not been received. Mr Y said that the £250 offered by Lloyds was 
inadequate for the inconvenience and lost income Lloyds had caused, and its errors 
warranted at least £1,000.
In late May, Lloyds contacted Mr Y again. It said that it had closed Fs account and enclosed 
a cheque for the balance. 
Mr Y was amazed and disappointed that Lloyds would close Fs account without any formal 
closure letter, or even a call to explain what it was doing and why. At this time, hed 
understood that there was only one more document outstanding to finally complete the 
process.
Lloyds later explained that the information provided by Mr Y didnt meet its application 
requirements and its account opening checks had not been passed. It said this was its 
commercial decision in accordance with its own risk guidelines.
In June, Mr Y complained again, setting out 14 points of complaint. He asked for his 
complaint to be escalated to the Chief Executives office. Mr Y said that the bank's actions 
had led to an estimated loss of £10,000, and he sought £5,000 in compensation. He also 
suggested that Fs application had been declined based on non-commercial/compliance 
factors.
A senior complaint handler at Lloyds phoned Mr F to respond to his complaint and sent a 
follow-up letter. Lloyds again apologised for its mistakes and its lack of clarity in 
communicating with Mr Y. Lloyds also admitted that it had lost Fs original trust deed, which 
it believed had been destroyed in error. Lloyds said that senior managers had been informed 
of the failings in their different areas. Lloyds also said that its account opening team had 
again reviewed Fs account application but had confirmed that it would not be approving it as 
Lloyds was no longer opening this type of account. However, in response to concerns raised 
by Mr Y, it confirmed that it hadnt placed any markers against F on its systems, which might 
have inhibited F from opening an account elsewhere. Lloyds initially offered F a further £500 
in compensation, which it then increased to £750 as its final offer. Mr Y did not accept this 
offer.
Following this response, Mr Y wrote to Lloyds CEO seeking to take matters further. In July, 
Lloyds replied again but with no change to its decision. It acknowledged a clear lack of due 
consideration and professionalism and said that it was abundantly clear that it had fallen 
short in the service provided. It repeated its offer of compensation. 
Mr Y remained disappointed. He said that the bank could not be bothered to investigate his 
concerns or to respond to his 14 detailed points of complaint.In September, Lloyds stopped the two cheques it had previously issued as compensation 
(for £25 and £250). It also stopped the cheque it had issued to F to return the balance on its 
account. Lloyds then transferred this closing balance and £25 to a new account F had set up 
with another bank. The remaining £1,000 compensation offered by Lloyds (£250 and £750) 
remains unpaid.
But this process also didnt run smoothly, and Mr Y complained again. In its response, 
Lloyds acknowledged that a call back Mr Y had been promised didnt happen, which had 
caused Mr Y to have to phone back again; a caller verification process had been difficult with 
apparent system issues; and a further call had been dropped while being passed between 
departments. Lloyds apologised for the frustration this had caused and accepted that the 
process to transfer F its money had taken longer than it should and resulted in Mr Y needing 
to chase the bank to progress matters. It paid F £100 in compensation.
Finally, Mr Y brought Fs complaint to our service. He said that he felt deeply frustrated and 
wanted the entire case re-opened. He reiterated that Lloyds customer complaint handler 
had wasted both his time and hers in managing a case that she had declared she wasn't 
competent or trained to understand. And he set out again the many times Lloyds hadnt 
returned his calls or acknowledged his correspondence, which he said felt disrespectful. He 
explained how, throughout the process, he had needed to repeat the whole story countless 
times to finally reach the right department. Mr Y emphasised the substantial fundraising 
income which had been lost as a result of all these failings. 
Our investigator considered Fs complaint and agreed with Mr Y that Lloyds had made many 
mistakes. He said Lloyds had caused delays in the account opening process and should 
have communicated better. He also said that Lloyds had failed to provide updates in a timely 
manner; and, had Mr Ys concerns been addressed directly by someone trained in setting up 
charity accounts, further issues could have been avoided. However, although our 
investigator acknowledged Mr Ys depth of frustration, he said that, overall, Lloyds offer of 
£1,025 to compensate F was fair. Our investigator noted that not all of the delays were 
caused by Lloyds, for example in the mandate form not being included initially and in the 
provision of inconsistent trustee names.
Mr Y didnt agree with this view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr Y that I have conducted a thorough impartial and unbiased review of 
everything that has happened in this case. I have reviewed all the material provided carefully 
and considered everything afresh.
Having set out above in some detail the circumstances of this dispute, Im not going to 
repeat it all again here. It is clear to me that Lloyds made numerous mistakes, including:
It didnt respond to all Mr Ys calls on a timely basis, and sometimes didnt respond at 
all, despite sometimes committing to call back
It didnt acknowledge all Mr Ys correspondence or the receipt of key documents from 
him
It wasnt always clear in the documents and information it needed
It lost (and probably destroyed) Fs original trust documents despite Mr Y asking for 
them to be returned
It failed to keep Mr Y adequately informed about the progress of Fs application, causing Mr Y to have to chase the bank repeatedly  eg although Lloyds could have 
contacted Mr Y about the missing mandate or later about the discrepancy in trustee 
name, in both instances Mr Y had to chase Lloyds first
It often wasnt able to route Mr Ys calls effectively when he phoned in for updates or 
to request further information, causing him to have to explain the situation multiple 
times and wait as his call was transferred
Some correspondence from the bank was discourteous, without a greeting or 
message
While Lloyds wasnt obliged to send a welcome pack (or debit cards or internet 
access) to Mr Y when it enabled Fs account, given that the account wasnt fully 
approved, it should still have made this clear and provided some explanatory letter 
While Lloyds complaint handler was trained in complaints handling, she wasnt 
always able to access on a timely basis the required expertise of Lloyds account 
opening team 
When the account opening team committed to being available to help Mr Y directly, it 
should have followed through on that commitment
While Lloyds was under no obligation to provide its reasons for declining Fs account 
application, it should have sent some form of account closure / explanatory letter
It is also clear to me that a result of these mistakes was a considerable delay in Fs 
application being processed and in F receiving Lloyds ultimate decision. 
This is not to say that all the delays were due to Lloyds. It is also clear to me that F made 
some mistakes in its application, as set out in the background section above  but in this 
decision, I am focussing on what Lloyds should have done better.
While Lloyds hasnt individually identified each of its failings, it has acknowledged more 
broadly its mistakes, and apologised for them. Having reviewed Lloyds internal notes and its 
responses to Mr Ys complaints, I believe it has considered the circumstances of Fs 
complaint thoroughly. Therefore, I do not believe there would be merit in requiring Lloyds to 
review matters again.
I have also seen nothing to indicate that Lloyds targeted F for unfair treatment or 
discriminated against it in any way. Rather, it appears to me that Lloyds decision to decline 
Fs application was made for commercial reasons the bank was free to make and, while the 
service it provided was poor, this wasnt due to any feature of F.
For these reasons, I believe the single outstanding question for me to consider is the 
appropriate amount of compensation due to F from Lloyds for its mistakes.
Lloyds has paid F £100 for the delay in processing the payment of Fs closing balance. I 
think this amount is fair. The administrative failings acknowledged by Lloyds as set out in the 
background section above caused some delay to Lloyds making this transfer, but this delay 
was short. And I believe the inconvenience to F was limited.
The more substantial compensation relates to Lloyds mistakes during the account opening 
process. Lloyds has offered £1,025 (of which £25 has been paid); while Mr Y believes F has 
suffered far greater loss and is seeking £5,000.
Mr Y has provided various receipts and records showing the use of Fs charitable funds in 
Pakistan. I have reviewed all this material. Mr Y has also said that F missed out on 
significant fundraising opportunities through not having its account fully open, particularly 
during Ramadan.Im aware that F did receive one large donation. However, as a new charity, I cannot look 
back on its previous history to indicate what level of income it might have received without 
Lloyds delays. And I also cannot tell what proportion of potential donations would have been 
delayed rather than entirely foregone. While I acknowledge that donations to Islamic 
charities typically increase significantly during Ramadan, it is impossible to know how much 
this might have impacted F. And it is also impossible for me to quantify the effect of Fs 
charitable activity being delayed in Pakistan. Therefore, determining an appropriate amount 
of compensation for the harm to F inevitably requires some judgement.
While I acknowledge that a delay in Fs UK fundraising might have caused an exchange rate 
loss compared with being able to transfer the funds to Pakistan earlier, I dont believe this 
consequence was reasonably foreseeable from Lloyds mistakes, and is an effect which 
could have gone in either direction. Therefore, this isnt something I would compensate.
Alongside the financial harm to F, I must also consider the inconvenience to F. It is clear 
from the circumstances set out above that Lloyds mistakes added considerably to the time 
required by Mr Y to make Fs account application and to provide Lloyds with all the required 
information and documentation. The fact that the application ultimately proved fruitless is not 
a factor for me to consider as thats likely to have been the result even without Lloyds errors. 
However, given the sustained period over which Lloyds mistakes occurred, and the 
extensive additional time required of Mr Y, I do believe the inconvenience was significant.
Overall, having taken into account all the circumstances of this case and the mistakes made 
by Lloyds, and having considered both the financial harm to F in lost income and the 
inconvenience to F throughout the whole process, I believe the offer made by Lloyds to 
compensate F is fair. While we will never know how much F would have raised had it been 
able to open an account earlier, and while it is impossible to perfectly quantify the 
inconvenience to F, I believe a total sum of £1,025 is fair compensation in the 
circumstances, and broadly consistent with an amount I would have award to F had Lloyds 
not made an offer. As £25 of this amount has already been paid, Lloyds will need to pay F a 
further £1,000.
I know that Mr Y will be disappointed with this outcome as he would like F to be 
compensated a much larger amount. But I hope he is assured by an independent third party 
having reviewed everything afresh and by my findings supporting many of the concerns hes 
raised. I also want to acknowledge how frustrating and challenging this whole episode has 
been for Mr Y personally, for the reasons set out above. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay F the further £1,000 it has 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman