DRN-3722471
The complaint
Miss G complains Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly declined a 
claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss G made a claim after her dog required treatment and medication for suspected arthritis. 
Casualty & General noted the vet had provided the following information on the claim form:
- Current weight: 29kg
- Ideal weight: 26kg
- Body condition score (BCS): 4/5
- Start of arthritis, advised to lose 3kg
Casualty & General declined the claim based on the following policy exclusion: 
- Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
Casualty & General explained Miss Gs policy doesnt cover any condition where the pet is 
deemed overweight and the condition is associated with this. Casualty & General noted it 
wasnt saying the dogs weight was the direct cause of the suspected arthritis, but its a 
contributing factor.
Miss G argued her dog was within the average weight range for her breed, and the vet didnt 
say the arthritis had been caused by the dogs weight, but rather, she recommended weight 
loss to reduce the stress on the hips which could exacerbate the problem. Miss G also 
highlighted the dog breed has a very high risk of arthritis from a young age.
Miss Gs vet also provided the following information, in a letter:
-Arthritis is a multifactorial condition that would have developed regardless of weight. 
Reduction in weight will put less pressure on joints and thus cause less pain. I would 
strongly urge you to reconsider your position on payment for this insurance claim. It 
is my professional opinion that being overweight did not directly cause arthritis to 
develop.
Casualty & General maintained its claim decision. Casualty & General said the dogs clinical 
history shows she has been overweight for years and shes well over the recommended 
weight for her breed, as confirmed by the 4/5 BCS. 
Casualty & General noted, in 2016, the vet recorded the dog was starting to get overweight, 
so food intake needed to be reduced. In 2017 and 2018, the vet recorded watch weight, 
and in 2019, weight lost was advised. 
In response to the vets letter, Casualty & General explained to Miss G that overweight dogs 
are at an increased risk of joint damage which then subsequently leads to osteoarthritis. It 
noted the dog had been overweight most of her life and said:
-Overweight dogs traumatise their joints with increased pressure over a long period of 
time, leading to joint damage and arthritis. 
-Studies have also proven fat tissue can cause systemic inflammation throughout 
the body. The by-products of which can alter the enzymes that keep cartilage and 
connective tissue healthy, which can lead to degeneration in the cartilage and 
joints.
-I appreciate that there have been numerous studies into the cause of Osteoarthritis, 
which have all noted that there are multiple factors involved, the fact remains that 
these studies have also shown that weight is a massive contributing factor.
Miss G brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators thought the complaint 
should be upheld. Because Casualty & General disagreed, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
If Casualty & General wish to decline the claim based on a policy exclusion, it needs to 
demonstrate, on balance, that the exclusion applies. Im not persuaded its done so.
For the exclusion to apply, the claim and treatment must have resulted from the dog being 
overweight. Based on the vets notes, I accept the dog was overweight at the time of the 
treatment. However, Ive not seen anything that persuades me the arthritis, in this case, 
resulted from the dog being overweight. 
Casualty & General says the policy doesnt cover any condition where the pet is deemed 
overweight and the condition is associated with this. However, thats not what the policy 
terms say. So, whilst I accept arthritis in dogs and their weight are associated with each 
other, in my view, thats not enough here. 
I also accept it may have been Casualty & Generals intention to exclude any claims for 
arthritis where the dog is overweight, but again, thats not what the policy terms say.  
The policy terms exclude treatment that has resulted from the pet being overweight. In this 
case, the treating vet doesnt consider the dogs weight to be the cause of her suspected 
arthritis. Ive no reason to doubt the credibility of her letter.
Furthermore, even if I were to accept that a dog being overweight for six years is likely to 
have contributed to their arthritis, on balance, Im not persuaded Casualty & General has 
shown Miss Gs dog was overweight during the period in question.In 2016, the vet recorded the dog was starting to get overweight and advised to reduce food 
intake. But in 2017 and 2018, the vet recorded the dog was doing well watch weight. In my 
view, this doesnt confirm the dog was overweight, only that her weight was something to be 
monitored. Neither the dogs weight nor her BCS was recorded between 2016 and 2018, so 
Casualty & General is basing its conclusion solely on the watch weight statements.
I accept that in 2019, the vet recommended weight loss, but again, no weight or BCS was 
recorded. There are also no records for 2020. So, Casualty & General doesnt know how 
overweight the dog was in 2019, or whether the dog continued to be overweight.
In 2021, two months before the vet diagnosed the arthritis and recommended the dog lose 
3kg, the dogs weight was recorded as 27.7kg. So, its evident the dog put on 1.3kg during 
the following two months. As such, the dog may have put on a similar amount of weight in 
the few months prior to weighing 27.7kg, and if so, the 3kg the vet recommended to lose 
would have only been put on relatively recently. Therefore, the extra weight could have 
been put on due to the arthritis causing a lack of mobility, rather than the weight having 
caused the arthritis.
In conclusion, Im not persuaded that Casualty & General has, on balance, shown the claim 
and treatment resulted from the dog being over a vets recommended medical weight. So, 
I find Casualty & General should now consider the claim subject to the remaining policy 
terms. Although our investigator recommended the claim should now be paid, its not 
immediately clear from the policy terms whether the prescribed tablets are covered.
Therefore, Casualty & General will now need to consider the cost of the initial treatment and 
tablets, and the ongoing monthly prescription, without declining those costs based on the 
policy exclusion it initially applied. Should Miss G be unhappy with Casualty & Generals 
further claim decision, she can make a new complaint about that.
Given Im not persuaded the claim was fairly declined, and Ive seen the matter has caused 
Miss G a degree of upset and inconvenience, Im also awarding her £150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should:
- consider the claim subject to the remaining policy terms; and
- pay Miss G £150 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman