DRN-3718196
The complaint
Mr H says that AWP P&C SA (AWP) cancelled his extended motor warranty policy without 
his knowledge. Hes now left with an outstanding bill for work he believed was covered by his 
extended motor warranty. 
What happened
Mr H says he took his car to a dealership in October 2021 whereupon he was told it needed 
some repairs. Mr H says it came to light during this visit that his extended motor warranty 
had been cancelled. 
Mr H says he was unaware his policy had been cancelled so he complained to AWP. AWP 
responded and said cover was no longer available to him because of the mileage on his 
vehicle. 
So, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed his complaint and 
upheld it as AWP failed to provide a full explanation about what had happened. 
Because AWP didnt engage fully nor did it reply to our information requests, the complaint 
came to me.  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 November 2022. I said I 
was going to uphold the complaint in part. The provisional decision is below and forms part 
of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr H had a pay as you go extended motor warranty policy that was underwritten by AWP. 
He says the took his car to his dealership in October 2021 and work was required. He says 
he then found out that his warranty had been cancelled, and this came as a shock.
But this doesnt tie in exactly with the notes on the file. The notes show the policy was 
cancelled on 7 September 2021.  Mr H called on 29 September 2021, but he was 
disconnected before anything was discussed. Mr H called again the next day and he was 
told in this call that his warranty product had been discontinued, and he was ineligible for a 
replacement product - because his vehicle mileage was too high. This was reconfirmed in 
another call later that same day.
The policy limit is 120k miles, but Mr H says hed had claims paid recently on his previous 
policy and his mileage far exceeded 120k when he made those claims. So, he cant 
understand why his vehicle is now suddenly out of scope for cover. When Mr H complained, 
AWP only dealt with the mileage issue. It quoted the mileage limitation and all it said was 
that it couldnt sell or continue with the warranty.
In 2022 the vehicle manufacturer linked to this extended motor warranty conducted a pricing 
review, and anyone who had the pay as you go policy, like the one Mr H had, was sent a 
letter asking him/her to contact AWP directly to confirm they were happy to continue under a 
new pricing structure.
Its not clear what correspondence Mr H received. But in the calls Ive listened to Mr H says 
he received correspondence to say his direct debit had been cancelled. So, its clear he did 
receive something from AWP. But instead of explaining to Mr H why his old policy continued 
to pay out on claims hed had whilst his vehicle had over 120k miles on the clock, and why 
now the vehicle manufacturer was restructuring and he would no longer be eligible for a 
policy, AWP misinterpreted what Mr H was complaining about and frustratingly sent him a 
final response simply setting out that he was no longer eligible for  a policy as per its terms 
and conditions only. It never explained why. 
When I spoke to AWP it acknowledged that it got this wrong. But this doesnt really change 
the outcome of what happened. In short, the vehicle manufacturer made a decision to 
discontinue the policy. And under the policy terms it says If you have a monthly policy we 
reserve the right to cancel your cover at any time by giving you 30 days notice in writing to 
the last address you provided us with. Mr H received a letter to that effect, thats why he 
called AWP. So, AWP has a right to cancel and it looks like it did so correctly. And 
unfortunately for Mr H, the vehicle manufacturer has made a commercial decision and it 
doesnt want to offer cover on vehicles with Mr Hs mileage. As such AWP wont be offering 
Mr H another policy, and its not obliged to do so.
But a lot of this could have been avoided if AWP had been clearer about what was 
happening and why. Further to this, when Mr H complained it misinterpreted what he was 
complaining about and this meant he remained frustrated with questions he had remaining 
unanswered. It didnt then help that AWP failed to engage with our service, making it even 
more frustrating for everyone involved.
I know Mr H wants his claim paid and he wants his previous premiums refunded. But I wont 
be asking AWP to do that. Mr H had no policy in place when he claimed, and he was made 
aware of this. Although it was never really explained why, Mr H knew he didnt have a policy 
in place at the time of the claim. Mr H has successfully used the policy previously. So, it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask AWP to refund any premiums.
But AWP provided poor customer service to Mr H. It didnt explain clearly why he was no 
longer eligible for cover; it didnt address his concerns when he complained and there were 
long unexplained delays in dealing with this complaint. So, Im going to recommend that 
AWP pay Mr H £200 for the inconvenience he suffered because of the poor service it 
provided.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP responded to my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr H also responded. He has asked us to consider awarding £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused. He says it cost a lot more than £200 to repair his vehicle, 
and he feels that AWP should compensate him with a higher amount for this. 
Ive taken Mr Hs request into consideration and I acknowledge the reasons why Mr H wants 
more compensation. But as I said in my provisional decision Mr H wasnt on cover when he attempted to make a claim, and he was aware of this. So, AWP was never in line to pay for 
any repairs. The compensation award Ive recommended is for the poor service provided, 
and on review I feel that £200 is a fair and reasonable amount for the reasons Ive set out in 
my provisional decision above. As such Im upholding this complaint in part and I ask AWP 
to pay Mr H £200 in compensation for the poor service he received.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AWP P&C SA to:
Pay £200 in compensation for the poor service it provided for the reasons Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman