DRN-3184608
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Blue Motor Finance Limited (BMF). 
  
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs K acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. She 
contacted BMF in February 2021 as the car wouldnt start, and complained about its quality, 
as shed only travelled around 4,000 miles in the car. 
BMF told Mrs K that because shed had the vehicle more than six months, shed need to 
provide a written report to say what the fault was, and whether it was present or developing 
at the point of sale. 
Mrs K opted not to use the company suggested by BMF because they told her theyd need 
to run the car or connect it to a computer to determine the fault, which they couldnt do 
because it wouldnt start. 
Mrs K sent BMF comments from two mechanics saying that there was water penetrating the 
engine, and the fault was likely due to a head gasket failure. Shed been told it would cost 
£90 an hour to strip the engine and diagnose exactly what had happened. And, even then, 
the exact time and cause of the fault might not be found. Mrs K wasnt in a position to pay for 
this inspection. 
BMF sent Mrs K their final response to her complaint in March 2021. They said there wasnt 
enough evidence to say what had caused the fault, and whether it was there when Mrs K 
acquired the car, so they didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs K brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mrs K. He thought that there was evidence of a fault with the car, and that these 
parts would be expected to last upwards of 100,000 miles. So, because theyd failed at such 
a low mileage, he thought the car wasnt reasonably durable, and therefore wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs K. 
Our investigator recommended that BMF arrange for the required repairs, refund Mrs Ks 
monthly payments from the date she was unable to use the car, plus interest, and pay Mrs K 
£100 in compensation. 
BMF said they thought they should have arranged for an inspection as the fault was unclear 
when Mrs K complained to them, and so they offered to do this. Our investigator remained of 
the view that there was evidence that the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it 
was supplied, and so no further inspection was needed. He thought BMF should arrange for 
the repairs. 
As BMF didnt respond, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
Mrs K has since told us that she had to buy a new car in order to take her husband to 
hospital appointments, so shes had to tax and insure the new car as well. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021 recommending that it 
was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. BMF as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £7,500. It was six years old and 
had travelled around 47,000 miles at the time of supply. With this in mind, although there is 
an element of wear associated with the age of a vehicle, I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a cheaper, higher 
mileage, vehicle. 
BMF have said that because the fault happened more than six months after supply, Mrs K 
needs to evidence that it was present or developing at the point of supply. I appreciate that 
neither of the reports obtained by Mrs K reach this conclusion. But I need to consider 
whether the car was durable. If parts or systems of the car fail prematurely, this might 
indicate there was already a problem with the car when it was supplied, regardless of when 
a fault then develops. 
The mechanic that inspected Mrs Ks car said that when they got it to start, it billowed white 
smoke from the exhaust pipe. They couldnt identify the exact cause of the problem, but 
suspect head gasket failure, or some other catastrophic failure allowing water into the 
combustion chamber. 
Mrs Ks car has suffered catastrophic engine failure. The exact cause of this hasnt been 
determined by the engineers employed by Mrs K, but its not disputed that the car is not 
driveable, and that substantial damage has been caused within the engine. 
All things considered, I dont think its reasonable to expect a car thats travelled less than 
51,000 miles to suffer such catastrophic engine failure that results in the need for extensive 
repairs. It seems that there was likely an overall issue with the vehicle which has led to a 
premature failure of parts. The issue doesnt appear to be one of normal wear and tear, nor 
have I seen any evidence that it was caused by driving style or third-party damage. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and 
therefore was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, BMF should do to put things 
right. Our investigator recommended that BMF undertake the required repairs to return the vehicle 
to a satisfactory condition. The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where 
goods are considered not to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an 
opportunity to repair the goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without 
significant inconvenience to the consumer.  
Mrs K has not had use of her vehicle since February 2021. Neither report provided by Mrs K 
has been able to identify the exact cause of the problem with the car, and they are not clear 
on what is required in order to affect a repair. Its not clear if a repair will be successful, will 
be long lasting, or how long it might take to complete. So, its likely that Mrs K will be put to 
significant inconvenience, in addition to that which shes already experienced, in arranging a 
repair when its not clear that it will be successful and further work and time might then be 
required to return the car to a satisfactory state. It would also mean that Mrs K has to wait for 
an unknown period of time before she is able to drive her car again. 
All things considered, I think Mrs K should be allowed her final right to reject the car. This 
means that the car is collected from Mrs K, the finance agreement is brought to an end, and 
Mrs K has her £2,500 deposit refunded (plus interest). The agreement and any adverse 
information should be removed from Mrs Ks credit file. 
Mrs K has been unable to drive the car at all since February 2021 and hasnt had use of any 
replacement or courtesy car in the interim. So, I think its fair that BMF refund 100% of her 
monthly payments from 1 March 2021 (plus interest).
Mrs K has told us that shes had to purchase another car in order to keep herself mobile and 
has incurred a cost to tax and insure this car, as well as the car under the agreement. Mrs K 
wouldnt have incurred these costs if BMF had allowed rejection of the car when they should 
have, and I dont think its unreasonable for Mrs K to have purchased a new car in order to 
keep mobile. So, I think BMF should refund the additional tax and insurance that Mrs K has 
had to pay. 
Ive seen evidence that Mrs K paid £30 to tax the new car in September 2021, and £151.59 
to insure it on 29 August 2021. This equates to £2.50 per month for the additional tax costs, 
and £12.63 per month for additional insurance costs. BMF should refund Mrs K £15.13 per 
month from 1 September 2021 to the date of settlement to reflect these additional costs.  
Our investigator recommended that BMF pay Mrs K £100 compensation for the impact the 
situation has had on her. Mrs K has had to rely on transport from other people and been put 
to the distress and inconvenience of finding another vehicle in order to take her husband to 
hospital appointments. Overall, Im satisfied that £100 reflects the distress and 
inconvenience experienced by Mrs K. 
Mrs K responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it and had nothing 
further to add. 
BMF responded to my provisional decision to say that they accepted it, but that its not 
necessarily in Mrs Ks best interest to remove the agreement from her credit file, as shed 
been making payments on time. 
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about BMFs submission in respect of removing the agreement from Mrs Ks 
credit file. 
As the vehicle is being rejected and the deposit returned, the agreement is effectively being 
treated as if it never existed. There is a possibility that even a paid debt will have an impact 
on Mrs Ks credit file in the future, and so Im satisfied that its reasonable in the 
circumstances to remove the agreement from her credit file. 
As neither party has raised any other new arguments, or sent me new information to 
consider, for the same reasoning that I set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Blue Motor Finance Limited to: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mrs K
Refund Mrs Ks deposit of £2,500 plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Refund 100% of Mrs Ks monthly rental payments from 1 March 2021, plus 8% 
simple yearly interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund Mrs K £15.13 per month for additional tax and insurance costs on the 
replacement vehicle from 1 September 2021 to the date of settlement. Plus 8% 
simple yearly interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs K £100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove the finance agreement from Mrs Ks credit file. 
If BMF considered that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman