DRN-1674467
The complaint
Mr S complained because National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund him for eight 
cash withdrawals which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 22 January 2019, Mr S went to his NatWest branch and told them hed seen eight cash 
withdrawals on his statement, which he hadnt made. These totalled £1,600 and had taken 
place between 10 May and 11 July 2018.
Mr S still had his debit card, and he said no-one else knew his PIN. NatWest told Mr S to 
contact the police. 
Mr S, represented by his daughter, contacted NatWest again on 24 June 2019. His daughter 
explained that Mr S had been out of the country for three months and had just got back. Mr 
S still had his card, and his daughter said he didnt check his bank statements regularly. 
NatWest stopped the card, and investigated.
The dates of the disputed £200 cash withdrawals were 10 May, 12 May, 21 May, 25 May, 26 
May, 28 May, 10 July and 11 July 2018. In between, there had been another £200 cash 
withdrawal at the same machine on 14 June, which Mr S said hed genuinely made.
The eight disputed £200 cash withdrawals had been carried out at a cash machine which Mr 
S used regularly. His daughter had explained that Mr S used to work in that location, and he 
went back from time to time to say hello to his friends. 
NatWest refused to refund the £1,600. It said that the disputed withdrawals had all been 
made using the genuine card and correct PIN. It explained that the chip on the genuine card 
couldnt be copied or cloned. Mr Ss daughter said that there had clearly been something 
wrong with the cash machine, and that everyone knows its easily done. She said that she 
had used an ATM and someone had taken money out, and unlike NatWest, her bank had 
refunded her.
In its final response, NatWest said that there was no explanation about how someone could 
have used Mr Ss card and known his PIN, and returned it to him on every occasion.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service, again represented by his daughter. Mr 
Ss daughter explained that Mr S withdraws £200 a month either at the start or end of the 
month, and wouldnt have needed the extra money. In reply to our investigators questions, 
Mr Ss daughter said that Mr S and his wife were sometimes visited by other family 
members, and by friends, but no-one visited at the time of the disputed transactions. Nor had 
Mr S visited his friends at his former workplace on the dates of the disputed transactions. 
She said that Mr S had never told anyone his PIN, and hadnt written it down.
The investigator considered that as Mr S still had his card, and hadnt told anyone his PIN, it 
was most likely that Mr S had carried out the disputed transactions himself.Mr S didnt agree. He said he was sure he hadnt withdrawn the money. And it wasnt a 
normal pattern for his withdrawals. His daughter also asked if we could retrieve CCTV from 
the transactions to see who actually took the money. The investigator explained it was most 
unlikely wed be able to retrieve this, because CCTV is often only kept for 30 days. And even 
if CCTV showed that Mr S hadnt carried out the transactions in person, it couldnt show he 
hadnt authorised someone else carrying out the transactions.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant regulations
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in May to July 2018 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
NatWest) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Mr 
Ss genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payments 
were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. Authorised doesnt necessarily mean 
the customer has to have carried out the transactions in person, but it means consenting to 
the transactions. The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for 
unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep 
their details secure.
Mr Ss card and PIN
The card which was used for the disputed withdrawals was Mr Ss genuine card. Ive noted 
above that in one of Mr Ss daughters phone calls to NatWest, she said that clearly 
someone had done something to the cash machine. She said that everyone knows its 
easily done. I cant comment on the fact that Mr Ss daughter said shed been refunded for 
two disputed transactions of her own, with a different bank. I dont have the full details, and 
this is about Mr Ss complaint. But I can explain how cards work and what this means for Mr 
Ss complaint.
Cards can be copied or cloned by fraudsters, but this process only copies things such as 
card number, expiry date, and three digit security number. So cloned cards can be used for 
transactions where the card isnt needed in person  for example phone transactions. But 
there has never been any instance of the chip on the front of a card being successfully 
replicated. 
So when a card is used in a machine and the chip is read by the machine, its the genuine 
card. Ive checked the computer records, and this means that it was definitely Mr Ss 
genuine card which was used for the disputed transactions, not a cloned or copied card.  
The computer records also show that Mr Ss correct PIN was used. The PIN had been sent 
to Mr S in April 2017, so it couldnt have been intercepted in the post shortly before the 
disputed transactions.  
The disputed transactions happened in two batches. Mr S used his card himself to take out 
cash on 7 May 2018, at the same cash machine. After that, the first disputed transaction 
happened on 10 May, followed by others at intervals until 28 May. Theres then a short gap until Mr Ss own, genuine, transaction on 14 June. Theres then another gap till the last two 
disputed transactions on 10 and 11 July.
Mr S is sure that he had the card in his possession. And I note there was a genuine cash 
withdrawal in the middle of the withdrawals. Mr S has said he didnt make the withdrawals 
himself. If he didnt, it must mean that someone was able to take Mr Ss card between 7 and 
10 May, carry out the transactions, and return his card after 28 May without him knowing. 
That person would then have been able to repeat this, taking the card before 10 July and 
retuning it after 11 July. That person would also have had to have known Mr Ss PIN. Its 
likely they knew Mr Ss habits too, as the withdrawals were made from the machine Mr S 
often used, and were for the amount he most commonly withdrew. Although this is unlikely, 
its not impossible, particularly if it was someone close to him, who perhaps visited his home 
on a regular basis. 
I cant tell whether this is what happened, or whether Mr S carried out the disputed 
transactions himself. But whichever of these it was, the liability is with Mr S, not with 
NatWest. The card wasnt stolen; the genuine card was used; and theres no explanation for 
how a fraudster unknown to Mr S could have obtained his correct PIN. There are some 
10,000 options for a four digit PIN so its most unlikely that anyone who didnt know the PIN 
could guess it correctly.
And the pattern of the withdrawals doesnt match that of a typical fraudster. A typical 
fraudster would withdraw the maximum as quickly as possible. Id have expected to see daily 
withdrawals of the maximum allowed on Mr Ss account. His daily withdrawal limit was £250, 
not £200 which was the amount of the disputed transactions, and the disputed transactions 
didnt happen daily. 
So I consider that the disputed withdrawals must either have been carried out by Mr S, or by 
someone who could have obtained his genuine card and PIN. For these reasons, I dont 
uphold Mr Ss complaint that NatWest should refund him £1,600 for the disputed 
transactions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman