DRN-3316845
Complaint
Mrs G has complained that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) 
provided unaffordable as it never took any steps to ensure her debt was affordable.
Background
Mrs G was provided with an iDraft facility with a credit limit of £100 in May 2019. Cashplus 
then provided Mrs G with 12 Debit protect loans for varying amounts between £30 and £675 
from May 2019 to September 2019. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs G and Cashplus had told us. And she thought 
that Cashplus hadnt done anything wrong when providing the overdraft for £100 in           
May 2019, or the first two Debit protect loans. But it shouldnt have provided the remaining 
ten Debit protect loans as it ought to have realised they were unaffordable. Our investigator 
also told Cashplus to pay Mrs G £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its actions. 
So our investigator partially upheld Mrs Gs complaint. Cashplus didnt agree in full and as 
Mrs G didnt accept its alternative offer of settlement the case was passed to an ombudsman 
for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Gs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im partially upholding Mrs Gs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a bit more detail.
Cashplus needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Cashplus needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs G could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mrs G was initially provided with an iDraft facility with a credit limit of £100. And as this was a 
revolving credit facility Cashplus was required to understand whether Mrs G could repay 
£100 within a reasonable period of time. I understand that Mrs G was asked to provide a 
declaration of her income and that Cashplus records suggest she may have declared an 
annual income of around £38,000. As this the case, given the amount was small and this 
was Mrs Gs first application for credit with Cashplus, Im satisfied that Cashplus carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before providing Mrs G her with her iDraft facility.
Mrs G was then provided with two Debit protect loans for £66.61 and £675 in May 2019. The 
first loan was repaid in full the day after it was taken out. And given it was for a small 
amount, Im satisfied that a relatively light touch assessment of Mrs Gs circumstances would 
have been proportionate. And given they were similar to those for the iDraft facility, Im 
inclined to say that the checks carried out before this loan was provided were also 
reasonable and proportionate.
Mrs Gs second Debit protect loan was for an amount that was significantly more than what 
shed borrowed previously. But given Mrs G had already repaid her first Debit protect loan in 
full, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would merely have extended to 
finding out more about Mrs Gs expenditure. And if Mrs G had been asked about her 
expenditure, I think she more likely than not would have declared an amount which wouldnt 
have prevented Cashplus from providing loan 2 to her. So I dont think reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have stopped Cashplus from providing the second Debit protect 
loan to Mrs G. 
However, when Mrs G approached Cashplus for Debit protect loan 3 at the end of             
May 2019, she still had an outstanding balance on her second loan at this stage. And         
Mrs Gs existing outstanding balance coupled with this being Mrs Gs fourth drawdown within 
the same month, lead me to think that Cashplus needed to find out more about Mrs Gs 
expenditure before providing the third Debit protect loan. 
Having looked at the information Mrs G has provided about her circumstances at the time, 
Im satisfied that once her actual regular expenditure was deducted from her income, Mrs G 
didnt have enough to sustainably repay Debit protect loan 3 or any of the subsequent ones 
that she was provided. In these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have shown Cashplus that it shouldnt have provided the Debit protect loans 
from the third one (taken on 31 May 2019) onwards to Mrs G. 
Mrs G went on to pay interest and charges on loans that she shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of having to pay the interest and charges 
on Debit protect loans 3 to 9. And Im satisfied that Cashplus needs to put things right.   
Fair compensation  what Cashplus needs to do to put things right for Mrs G
Having carefully considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Cashplus to put 
things right for Mrs G in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mrs G paid on the Debit protect loans (loans 
3 to 12) provided from 31 May 2019 onwards;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid from the 
date they were paid by Mrs G to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file as a result of the 
Debit protect loans provided from 31 May 2019 to 14 August 2019.if an outstanding balance remains on the final loan (taken on 16 September 2019) 
once all adjustments have been made, Cashplus should use any interest refund due 
for the earlier loans to reduce the balance on this loan. If an outstanding balance 
remains after this, Cashplus should contact Mrs G to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan. Mrs G is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Cashplus to 
reach a suitable agreement for this. If no outstanding balance remains after all 
adjustments then Cashplus should also remove any adverse information recorded on 
Mrs Gs credit file about this loan too.
pay Mrs G £150 for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused - particularly in 
relation to collections activity.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashplus to take off tax from this interest. Cashplus 
must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman