DRN-2951076
The complaint
Mr R complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) has 
unfairly declined his claim on his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R visited his vet in December 2019, as hed noticed a lump on his dogs hip. The vet 
indicated the lump looked fatty in the clinical notes. They tested it and suggested monitoring 
it and checking it again later  rather than removing it at that point. The same day, Mr R took 
out a pet insurance policy with RSA, he says this was because he was being diligent. 
The following year, at the end of November 2020, Mr R visited the vet again. The clinical 
notes weve been given say the lump on the left hip had grown bigger. And in 
December 2020 the lump was removed as it looked like a Sarcoma  a type of cancer. 
Mr R submitted a claim on his pet insurance policy for the treatment his dog had received in 
2020. RSA responded to Mr R shortly afterwards declining the claim. It thought the claim 
was for a pre-existing condition and so was excluded under the policy terms. It relied on the 
medical history and histology report provided by the vets which it thought showed the lump 
identified in 2019 was the same lump as the one removed in 2020. 
Mr R didnt agree and arranged for his vet to provide further information. In a letter from 
around February 2021, the vet said they couldnt guarantee the two lumps were the same as 
the testing that was done in 2019 showed the lump to be a Lipoma and the lump removed in 
2020 was a Sarcoma. But the letter also mentioned the test carried out in 2019 isnt always 
accurate and different vets saw the dog in 2019 and 2020. In a further letter, the vet 
explained although it couldnt say for certain it was the same lump, it was in a similar area. 
RSA continued to decline the claim so Mr R made a complaint about the decision. He 
highlighted that RSA hadnt directed him to disclose the fatty lump identified in 2019 when he 
took the policy out. As the outcome didnt change, Mr R asked our service to look into things. 
Our investigator said RSA hadnt done anything wrong. She thought there was enough 
evidence to say the condition Mr R had claimed for was pre-existing.  And she didnt think it 
needed to ask customers about this specific condition at the time of the sale. As Mr R didnt 
agree with our investigators findings, the case has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand and have thought about all of the points Mr Rs raised but Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint, I know he will be very disappointed. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked very carefully at the terms set out in the policy document and the schedule RSA 
says were sent to Mr R. They say claims for pre-existing conditions are excluded. In 
summary, this includes health issues, concerns or illnesses which the policyholder or their 
vet were aware of before taking out the policy  and any illness or change developing in the 
pets health or behaviour in the first 14 days of the policy starting. So the question for me is 
whether Mr Rs dog did have a pre-existing condition as per the terms of the policy. 
Mr R and his vet identified a lump on the day he took out the policy. Whilst I accept the 
clinical notes indicate it may have been a fatty lump, Im not satisfied the vet diagnosed it as 
such  and ruled out other possibilities. Instead the vet suggested the lump was monitored 
for growth and to check back again in around a month. This suggests to me, they werent in 
a position to confirm it was nothing to worry about. I cant see anything from the notes that 
show it was reviewed a month later or confirmed to be a fatty lump. 
In November 2020, I can see the notes say the lump had grown  and not that a new lump 
had been identified as Mr R says. And a further medical report refers to the lump having 
been there since the year before. I can also see the part of the claim form completed by the 
vet says the clinical signs of the condition claimed for were first noticed in December 2019. 
I appreciate Mr R thinks the condition he claimed for in 2020 is unrelated to the lump 
identified in 2019 as he thinks they were diagnosed as two different things. But from 
everything Ive seen, it seems to me the vet didnt diagnose Mr Rs dog in 2019  but had 
given a possible cause based on an initial examination and intended to review things later.
Mr Rs given us letters from his vet which he thinks support his view. But having looked at 
them carefully, I dont agree. I say this because whilst the vet cant confirm the lump in 2020 
was the same lump identified in 2019, they have highlighted it was only presumed in 2019 
the lump was a Lipoma. And whilst they tested it at the time, the vet has said the test carried 
out isnt always accurate. So Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to say the 
treatment carried out the following year was for a new condition or that its more likely it was 
unconnected to the lump identified previously. 
I know Mr Rs unhappy RSA didnt ask him to disclose that a fatty lump had been identified 
when he took out the policy. But that would need to be a separate complaint against the 
seller of the policy and doesnt make a difference to this case. In any event, I can see from 
the schedule that Mr R confirmed his dog was in good health and not showing any sign of 
illness or other medical condition. So I think he was given the opportunity to give information 
about his dogs condition  and I think its reasonable to expect he would have, considering 
the vet suggested the lump needed ongoing monitoring. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
13 October 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman