DRN-3993619
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) incorrectly recorded three missed 
payments on his credit file when it cancelled an authorised overdraft on his student bank 
account without his knowledge.
What happened
Mr L had a student account with an agreed overdraft limit of £1,500 at 0% interest. From late 
2019 there was no activity on the account and so in April 2020 BoS began sending Mr L 
online notifications that he needed to pay money in on a regular basis to allow the overdraft 
to stay open. Notifications in May and June 2020 warned him that the overdraft would be 
removed if he didnt respond. Because it hadnt heard from him, BoS then sent a notification 
in July 2020 that the overdraft had been removed.
Between August and October 2020 Mr L was sent letters by post in relation to having to get 
the account back on track and pay off the outstanding balance. However, BoS was sending 
these letters to an incorrect address.
In late October 2020, Mr L noticed what was happening on the account, contacted BoS and 
made an arrangement to pay. The outstanding amount was paid back in full in October 
2021. However, because the overdraft was withdrawn in July 2020, that resulted in BoS 
recording three missed payments on his credit file.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint and recommended that BoS should remove the 
missed payments from the credit file and pay £1,000 compensation, to which BoS agreed.
Mr L disagrees with the investigators opinion as he believes the compensation amount 
should be much higher. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was established to be a quick and informal service. This 
doesnt mean we apply any less rigour or care in reaching our decisions. However, it does 
mean that we might not address each and every point in the way that Mr H might have been 
expecting. So, whilst I can assure Mr L that I have read all of the information he has 
provided, I intend to concentrate on the crux of the matter at hand.
BoS sent its letters between April and July 2020 to Mr Ls online account only. It did this 
because Mr L had elected paperless communication when setting up the account. Mr L says 
he had no reason to log into his online account because he was satisfied that he was within 
his approved overdraft and that it was at 0% interest. I appreciate that Mr L didnt need to 
check his balance but he should have kept an overview of the account in terms of looking 
out for important communication from BoS. I appreciate Mr L thinks that BoS should have 
called him but, overall, Im satisfied that it was reasonable that notifications during this period 
were sent online only.
The problems really arose when matters became more pressing in August 2020. BoS quite 
rightly started to send its more serious letters by post. However, due to an error on its part, 
BoS sent the letters to an address that Mr L hadnt lived at since 2012. 
Theres no dispute about this and that it caused Mr L inconvenience. BoS has agreed to 
amend the credit file by removing the missed payments. The outstanding issue is about the 
level of compensation that BoS should pay for its failings. Mr L has asked for differing 
amounts during the course of the complaint. Most lately he says he has taken legal advice 
that his claim would be worth thousands but likely below £10,000. 
Although Mr L has said that court fees would be costly for BoS and so a deal should be 
brokered on that basis, that is not something I would take into consideration. In looking at 
what compensation to award, I look at the failings that have occurred and the effect this has 
had on Mr L, in an attempt to return him to the position he would have been in if the failings 
hadnt occurred. As our investigation has mentioned, our approach to compensation is set 
out on our website and awards for distress and inconvenience are relatively modest in 
comparison to Mr Ls expectations.
Mr L has previously provided a breakdown of the compensation he was requesting, including 
amounts for impact on his mental health, time taken in dealing with the complaint, loss of 
property and other investment opportunities and loss of general finance opportunities such 
as not being able to buy a car.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr L has said about lost investment and purchasing 
opportunities. Having the three missed payments showing on his credit file would certainly 
have caused Mr L some inconvenience. But, based on the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded that they had the significant financial impact that Mr L has set out in his 
submissions.
I have no doubt that this would have been a very stressful time for Mr L. This was made 
particularly so because BoS was initially insistent that Mr L had failed to update his address 
and that it was therefore correctly sending the letters to the address it had on file. It wasnt 
until Mr L made a complaint to the Information Commissioners Office that it transpired that 
an error came about when BoS carried out an address merge, resulting in an old address 
being applied to Mr Ls student account. So Mr L was put to additional time and trouble in 
trying to get to bottom of this issue himself. The £1,000 compensation recommended by our 
investigator is at the higher end of the awards we usually make for similar failings by a bank. 
So I think this takes account of the length of time it has taken to resolve the complaint and 
the efforts that Mr L has had to make.
Overall, I consider that £1,000 compensation is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint, together with the removal of the missed payments from Mr Ls credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and require 
Bank of Scotland plc to remove the missed payments from Mr Ls credit card and pay him 
£1,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Carole ClarkOmbudsman