DRN-4056579
The complaint
Through his representative, Mr C complains that Feast Noble & Company LLP (FN&C)
rubber stamped or facilitated advice which he had received from an unregulated
introducer, to transfer his pensions to a Rowanmoor SIPP in order to invest in high risk
unregulated investments that were unsuitable for him.
He says that in doing this it breached the regulators Principles for Businesses and a number
of its rules in COBS chapter 2, 4, 9 and 10, and section 27 of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). It is also concerned that through the actions it took, FN&C was
communicating promotions of unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) contrary to
the restrictions on such promotions.
What happened
Mr C says that he approached his existing advisers (who Ill call Mr G) unregulated firm
AJP in the summer of 2012, seeking further advice so that he could maximise his
retirement income as far as possible. He had an existing relationship with Mr G who had
previously been regulated by the FSA/FCA. I can see that an individual of the same name
shows on the FCA register as being authorised until December 2010.
At that time Mr C was aged 55. He had three personal pensions which (at the point of
transfer) totalled £93,108. He says Mr G recommended he transfer to a Rowanmoor SIPP
and invest in a variety of specific property investments which would outperform his existing
plans at minimal risk. He followed that advice in view of their previous advisory relationship.
AJP wrote to Mr C on 5 July 2012 asking him to complete a FN&C client agreement and
letters of authority to release information to FN&C  which it said (without further
explanation) was our appointed IFA. In Mr Cs view, Mr G failed to explain that this was
because he no longer had the necessary regulatory authorisation. The client agreement
envisages an advisory relationship between FN&C and Mr C.
The letters of authority gave twin authority to release information to both FN&C and AJP.
After Mr C had completed these documents, AJP then sent them to FN&C on 9 August
under cover of a letter in which it said Mr C was proposing to arrange his own self
investments linked to a SIPP and his preferred SIPP provider is Rowanmoor Pensions
because of AJPs agreed charges. It said it had retained a Rowanmoor application on file.
Included was also a fact find signed by Mr C on 1 August. This was on a template describing
it as AJP Worldwide Pension Analysis Service in association with Feast Noble & Co LLP.
This set out that Mr C was wanting more choice in being able to self-invest, including in
commercial property, and had a medium appetite for risk. Handwritten comments added:
Specifically interested in the ability to self-invest as not happy with long term fund
performance linked to insurer based funds, nor does he see any prospect of recovery
ongoing given state of global economy. Directly held, tangible assets such as commercial
property, land & commodities could be considered & subject to SIPP being set up,
intends to seek separate information & guidance on such investment options.
FN&C used Mr Cs letters of authority to obtain information about Mr Cs existing pension
arrangements, such as fund information and projections of benefits - for example by writing
to Aviva on 16 August 2012. Aviva then responded to FN&Cs postal address on 10
September 2012.
At some point  the date is unclear  AJP had given Mr C a direct offer pack produced by
FN&C, which in places sets out the potential advantages of using a SIPP, and specifically
one with Rowanmoor with whom the pack said FN&C had established an arrangement. It
disclosed that FN&C would charge £1,250 as a setup fee and £200pa for ongoing
administration. On 8 October 2012 Mr C signed the consent form from this pack confirming
that he understood the requirements, risk warnings and fee structure and wished to proceed.
Then on 10 October, AJP (rather than FN&C) sent the necessary application paperwork to
Rowanmoor. This included a copy of Mr Cs client agreement and consent form with FN&C,
and Rowanmoors adviser fee agreement and application form. The application form is
stamped with AJPs name on the cover page but bore FN&Cs details in the independent
financial adviser section. It said Mr C would be investing in a mix of property and land
related assets. I notice that  at least in theory  there was an option on Rowanmoors
application for Mr C to tick a box: I am not appointing an Independent Financial Adviser.
It appears this first sending of the literature may not have met Rowanmoors requirements,
as the above documents (minus the FN&C client agreement/consent form but with an
identity verification certificate) were re-sent by FN&C to Rowanmoor on 22 October. FN&C
also wrote to Mr C that same day to confirm this and also the following points:
- that Mr C had applied as a result of the direct offer pack
- FN&C had not provided Mr C with advice and would only be administering the SIPP
- his intention was to invest, at some point in the future, in a range of investments of
your own choice
Transfers into the new SIPP were received from Mr Cs existing providers from 16-21
November 2012, with £1,250 being paid to FN&C on 11 December (of which I understand
£450 was rebated back to AJP). The following investments were then made, evidently at the
instruction of AJP directly to Rowanmoor and without FN&C being specifically aware:
27 November 2012: a £15,000 loan to develop Lomaxfind student halls of residence 
(Stoke on Trent), at 7.5%pa interest and due to be repaid on the fifth anniversary of 
project completion. AJP sent an instruction letter for this investment to Rowanmoor 
on 22 November, including a Rowanmoor high risk declaration dated (by 
Rowanmoor) on 14 November.
29 November 2012: £25,000 in a 99 year lease on a Best Asset Management car 
parking space in Dubai. AJP sent an instruction letter for this investment to 
Rowanmoor on 22 November, including a 19 November high risk declaration.
6 December 2012: £27,875 fractional share in Malgretoute Hotel Development 
Company (Freedom Bay, St Lucia)  targeted for completion in December 2014. AJP 
sent an instruction letter for this investment to Rowanmoor on 5 December, including 
a 3 December high risk declaration.
18 April 2013: one B share worth £5,000 in Physioflexx Limited. AJP sent an 
instruction letter for this investment to Rowanmoor on 17 April.
31 May 2013: £15,850 investment in a hotel room with Akbuk Resort Group 
(Harmony Bay, Turkey). AJP sent an instruction letter for this investment to 
Rowanmoor on 14 May. Mr C signed a high risk declaration for this on 24 May.
These were the only five investments made in the SIPP.Whilst these investments were being made, on 25 April 2013 FN&Cs agency on the policy
was changed by Rowanmoor to AJP at Mr Cs request. Rowanmoor seems to have treated
this as meaning Mr C was an orphan client to which it would have to start sending SIPP
statements directly (presumably as AJP was an unauthorised firm), and wrote back to Mr C
on the same day inviting him to appoint a new IFA.
By August 2013, I can see that FN&C had also taken its own action and wrote to
Rowanmoor with a list of 33 clients including Mr C, for which it wanted to be removed as
servicing agent. Its evident from how the request was acknowledged internally at
Rowanmoor that these were also individuals who were associated with AJP. The following
month (and on several later occasions) Mr C wrote to Rowanmoor requesting a preference
to being a direct client of Rowanmoor and only authorising AJP to receive information about
his plan. Ive seen no evidence that another IFA was appointed to the plan.
By 1 September 2017, the amount in the SIPP bank account was £14,820 having received
total income of £16,007 across all investments (apart from Physioflexx), but from which
charges had been deducted. The investments were considered worthless apart from the
Freedom Bay investment still valued at £15,400. Mr Cs SIPP subsequently received £7,690
in settlement of this investment in May 2020.
Mr Cs representative sent a preliminary letter to FN&C on 30 May 2018, believing that this
was a more typical case of FN&C making a personal recommendation for Mr C to take out
the SIPP. In its more extensive letter of claim dated 12 July 2018, it elaborated that FN&C
advised Mr C by way of leading statements contained in the direct offer pack, and/or had
accepted the duty of being Mr Cs adviser  whether it had advised him on the SIPP or not.
Further correspondence was exchanged before FN&C then issued its response to Mr Cs
representative on 9 May 2019. In summary FN&Cs response said that:
- The assertion that FN&C had recommended the Rowanmoor SIPP to Mr C was 
factually incorrect, when the evidence was consistent that AJP provided that advice 
and all the documentation was provided by AJP.
- It had never collected ongoing fees from the SIPP as its agency was cancelled. Those 
fees were never said to be for ongoing advice, but rather administration.
- The direct offer pack said that FN&C was not providing advice on a transfer or any 
related investments, and that no disclosure of the information in that pack be 
considered as such.
- In support of this, the pack offered Mr C the options of seeking his own expert advice 
about whether this pension plan is suited for your needs, or its affordability, risks or 
charges - or paying FN&C an additional fee, which he didnt take up.
- FN&C hadnt actually been retained by Mr C on the advisory basis stated in its client 
agreement, and AJP never acted as an agent of FN&C.
- FN&C wasnt aware which investments Mr C was planning to make with the SIPP, and 
understood that decision had yet to be made at the time. It never received commission 
from those investments, which likely went to AJP and/or Rowanmoor.
- It had established subsequently that Rowanmoor issued a series of letters to Mr C 
warning him of the high risks of the investments, before his SIPP had been set up 
[note that this is not correct  Ive given the dates of those letters above].
- As Mr C had already decided to transfer to the SIPP on the basis of making certain 
investments that werent disclosed to FN&C, it hadnt caused his losses. The final 
investment was made after FN&Cs agency on the SIPP had ended.
- Had it advised Mr C against making the investments, the Rowanmoor waiver 
declarations (and an unquoted equity declaration for the Physioflexx shares) he 
signed show that he would have proceeded regardless.- To the extent that Mr C had not caused his own losses, they were caused by AJP 
illegally advising him, and in turn Rowanmoor accepting instructions from AJP in 
breach of the SIPP agreement to only accept them from FN&C.
- Rowanmoor failed to carry out adequate due diligence on the proposed investments. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service. FN&C informed us that 
it was a matter of record at Companies House that Rowanmoor had registered a debenture 
of £30,000 over any commissions payable to AJP. It said that this was relevant in showing a 
pre-existing connection between Rowanmoor and AJP.
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. On causation, he 
specifically took into account that Mr C had evidently been introduced to FN&C two months 
before he signed the consent form from the direct offer pack. However, he wasnt satisfied 
that Mr C had already decided to go ahead with the SIPP come what may or that FN&C 
couldnt have influenced his decisions. 
He also accepted that the Rowanmoor waiver declarations Mr C signed for high risk 
investments were at odds with his stated medium attitude to risk. However he thought Mr C 
wasnt an experienced or knowledgeable investor, and would have been more reliant on the 
people he was dealing with and less reliant on those documents when making his decisions.
FN&Cs solicitor sent a lengthy response to the investigators view, from which I shall focus
here on the main points:
The conclusions were premised on incorrect facts:
- Mr Cs own recollection was not that he was advised by FN&C but rather AJP. And if 
FN&C didnt make a personal recommendation to invest in a SIPP with respect to Mr 
Cs individual circumstances, then how can it be said that a SIPP would always have 
been unsuitable for him given the wide range of investments he could make?
- FN&C didnt know at the time that AJP had recommended the SIPP and therefore that 
it given advice as an unauthorised firm in contravention of FSMA.
The conclusions were reached with the benefit of hindsight:
- The letters FN&C used to request information from the ceding schemes were standard 
throughout the industry, whether or not advice was being given.
- Mr C was only the second individual AJP had introduced to FN&C in 2012. The 
arrangement between the two firms was intended for the introduction of high profile 
sportspersons. FN&C only became aware later that the clients were not of the nature 
intended, electing to cease taking instructions from AJP in February 2013.
- FN&C had been taken advantage of by AJP, rather than the two firms colluding 
together as the investigator suggested.
- The relevance of the two FCA alerts the investigator referred to, issued after Mr Cs 
transfer but relying on existing rules in COBS 9, is itself diminished by the fact that 
COBS 9  doesnt apply (a personal recommendation wasnt given to Mr C).
The conclusions ignore the role and responsibility of AJP
- FN&C wasnt informed Mr C wished to make unregulated investments. FN&C would 
conduct an assessment of each client who proposed to do so, and FN&C had told AJP 
on 24 August 2012 that any clients for which it determined unregulated investments 
werent suitable would have to find an alternative IFA.
- Such discussions continued over a number of months to the point that AJP frustratedly 
asked (and FN&C didnt agree) that FN&C should only process the SIPP transfer for 
those unsuitable clients  and service the SIPP afterwards.
- FN&C reasonably believed that no such investments were being made because it 
wouldve expected to be notified by Rowanmoor of the same.The conclusions assume what Mr C would have done if FN&C had advised appropriately
- Two of Mr Cs personal pensions had previously been invested in property and he 
had made pension transfers previously (presumably with Mr G) in 2006 and 2010.
- If FN&C had been informed Mr C was going to invest in unregulated investments it 
would only have been willing to act for him if he went into a regulated fund such as its 
five year advised portfolio with Aviva.
- If FN&C had expressed concerns about investing in unregulated investments, Mr C 
would have reverted to Mr G of AJP, who unlike FN&C he was in personal contact 
with. Mr G would have dismissed those concerns and/or found another IFA who didnt 
share them.
- AJP actually told it on 11 March 2013 that it had another IFA to which it was prepared 
to transfer agencies.
- It was wrong for the investigator to conclude Mr C would have heeded warnings from 
one regulated firm (FN&C) when he didnt heed them from another (Rowanmoor).
The conclusions ignore the law on causation: FN&C gave no further context on this point.
FN&C also wished to know from this service if the documents weve seen disclose the name
of any other IFA that AJP had referred Mr C to and whether that IFA had been appointed to
the SIPP, with the effect of terminating its own retainer, before any of the abovementioned
investments had been made. It said that no final decision should be issued on the complaint
before it had full disclosure of any relevant documents. For the avoidance of doubt this
service has already shared the evidence on which my decision relies with FN&C.
Its solicitor subsequently sent this service several emails/letters between it, AJP and
Rowanmoor - to which I shall refer in my findings. The solicitor emphasized that FN&Cs
agreement with AJP had broken down because it was unwilling to facilitate SIPPs to make
widespread unregulated investments. It said 43 clients in total were transferred by AJP into
FN&Cs agency without their prior knowledge, and after the SIPPs had already been set up
by AJP or another IFA. FN&C was later told this was because Rowanmoor couldnt accept
investment instructions from AJP without there first being an authorised IFA associated with
the SIPP. FN&C was in no way enriched by the relationship as it could only benefit by £800
each time (after AJP was paid £450 of FN&Cs fee for filling in the paperwork).
The solicitor insisted that to the extent it was aware that other clients had made unregulated
investments, FN&C assumed this was because they had been referred to another IFA for
advice. It remained of the view that without full disclosure of the collusion between
Rowanmoor and AJP, the matter could not be fairly decided. It also expected the
ombudsman to make an apportionment for losses caused by other parties.
Having had sight of the evidence that we received from Mr Cs representative (comprising
Rowanmoors reply to its DSAR), the solicitor said it was convinced that Rowanmoors
involvement lay at the heart of Mr Cs losses and this service should require Rowanmoor to
compensate Mr C for the full measure of his loss  or at the very least, that firm should bear
the greater share of the loss. (This was before complaints against Rowanmoor have been
passed to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme to be determined.)
Our investigator acknowledged all of the solicitors points. Regarding the fact that some
investments were placed after FN&C ceased acting nominally as Mr Cs adviser, he said that
the ombudsman might make an allowance for that.
He also commented on another of Mr Cs representatives points, that s.27 of FSMA
(Agreements made through unauthorised persons)  where here AJP is the unauthorised
person  gave Mr C a legal right to recover sums transferred by him under an agreement to
take out the SIPP through FN&C. The investigator thought it might be arguable that Mr C
had that right, and the ombudsman might want to consider this argument. So he invited thesolicitors response. No specific response has been received on this s.27 point.
The findings from my Provisional Decision of 28 February 2023
Ive taken into account that on the one hand, Mr C was referred to FN&C having apparently
already chosen (with AJPs assistance) Rowanmoor to be his SIPP provider  because he
wanted to invest directly in commercial property opportunities. But on the other hand, FN&C
had provided a direct offer pack, which at some point Mr C saw, in which it promoted
Rowanmoor to be that choice of SIPP provider for people looking for those opportunities.
The sequence of these events is not clear: we only know that Mr C signed the consent form
from the offer pack about two months after he was first referred to FN&C. That doesnt of
course mean he only saw the offer pack at that later date, and even if he did that was still
before the SIPP application was submitted to Rowanmoor. Either way, it does seem clear
that the only SIPP provider ever under discussion was Rowanmoor, because it was known
to facilitate the sorts of investments Mr C was going to be making without much difficulty.
Some of FN&Cs arguments around the extent of the service it was providing here are
contradictory: in effect it admits that it was taking a view on the likely suitability of the client
base for making unregulated investments. Making an assessment of which clients were and
which were not going to be suitable for this type of investment would, to my mind, involve
some sort of case by case analysis. If so, it seems likely to me that was what the information
AJP was providing in a fact find for FN&C was being used for.
FN&C then suggests that it informed AJP of any clients which did not appear suitable, but it
hasnt provided any evidence of doing that in specific relation to Mr C. Nor did it
communicate the result of any such assessment to Mr C. And its solicitors arguments
suggest that FN&C shouldnt have been willing to arrange Mr Cs SIPP if it didnt think he
was a suitable client for unregulated investments  especially given that when the SIPP
commenced I cant see it had any other knowledge that another authorised adviser was or
would be involved. But as Ill go on to explain, FN&C did go on to arrange a SIPP which was
in all likelihood going to be used to make unregulated investments. It seems to me that the
only way of reconciling these arguments is that that the very framework that was put in place
to prevent unsuitable SIPPs being set up, wasnt followed by FN&C in this case.
FN&C clearly went on to carry out the regulated activity of arranging the SIPP and was
bound by the regulators principles and rules in doing so. But before looking at that, Im going
to consider the investigators argument (which FN&C disagrees with) that FN&C gave advice
to Mr C. Advice which meant it should have communicated to him whether the SIPP was
suitable for him based on his circumstances and objectives, which implicitly included what
investments he intended to make within it. FN&C has correctly observed in my view that
what the investigator is referring to here is a personal recommendation.
Did FN&C make a personal recommendation to Mr C?
FN&Cs main communication with Mr C about the SIPP was its direct offer pack. Just
because Mr C considers he was advised by APJ doesnt of itself rule out that the direct offer
pack from FN&C also contained investment advice. FN&C allowed this direct offer pack to
be shown to Mr C by AJP and as Mr C signed to confirm he had read it before investing, Im
satisfied on the balance of probabilities that he did.
There are several references in this pack to the effect that FN&C was not making any
recommendation as to the suitability of this arrangement - and FN&C will not provide
advice, or recommendation as to the suitability of investment into commercial property. It
said it was willing to provide an advice service, however this will incur additional fees.
However, merely saying advice isnt being provided doesnt negate any other statementsbeing made that do, on a reasonable reading, actually amount to advice. COBS 2.1.2R
refers:
A firm must not, in any communication relating to designated investment business seek
to:
(1) exclude or restrict; or
(2) rely on any exclusion or restriction of;
any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system.
Much of the pack doesnt comment on the merits of an investment with any particular
provider  the references to commercial property are generic, and there are also generic
references to the fact stakeholder pensions tend to be cheaper. So, I dont agree with Mr Cs
representative that the pack constituted a promotion of the unregulated investments to be
made within the SIPP.
But the nature of the direct offer pack changes in the section entitled, Why should you use
the Rowanmoor Pensions SIPP Arrangement, under which FN&C emphasizes
Rowanmoors award winning service, high standards, and fee structure. And on the
subsequent page under Should I transfer my pension benefits into a SIPP? there are a
number of references to the Rowanmoor SIPP being the specific SIPP under consideration.
Theres no doubt at this point that this is a recommendation as to a course of action involving
a particular, specified investment (the Rowanmoor SIPP): one which contains an element of
opinion on FN&Cs part. It therefore contains all the necessary elements described at PERG
8.25-8.29G in the regulators handbook for it to constitute the regulated activity of advising
on investments.
Im also mindful that PERG 8.28.4G sets out that information being provided by a firm may
take on the nature of advice if the circumstances in which it is provided give it the force of a
recommendation. The pack details the advantages of SIPPs (which would plainly apply to
the specific Rowanmoor SIPP being mentioned). However Mr C wouldnt necessarily be
aware that all of the claimed tax benefits, and most of the flexibility features, were largely
the same as those that were enjoyed by his existing pensions (or at least, providers).
The intention of the pack was clearly to promote the idea of making commercial property
investments (in general) through the Rowanmoor SIPP. But a SIPP wasnt the only way of
pooling money into such investments. There was no acknowledgement in the pack that
many retail investors use the insurers own property funds under a personal pension. These
offer many of the same advantages of commercial property investment cited  including the
key income and capital gains tax advantages  and actually with a wider spread of
properties. The investments only accessible through a SIPP which Mr C would be looking at
would employ a more specialised sort of pooling where funds were concentrated into a
specific development, usually at significantly more risk.
So, I think Mr C was left with a misleading impression of the benefits of commercial property
investment through the Rowanmoor SIPP, as part of an activity being carried out by FN&C
that amounted to advising on investments. But crucially, I dont think that is the same as
FN&C making a personal recommendation. The latter is defined in the regulators handbook
as (amongst other things) a recommendation that is presented as suitable for the person to
whom it is made; or based on a consideration of the circumstances of that person.
Mr C likely met or spoke to Mr G of AJP, who he was already acquainted with, whereas
FN&Cs direct offer pack wasnt addressed to him personally. And the substance of FN&Cs
relationship with him was that there wasnt any more advice than Ive determined was
contained in the direct offer pack. FN&C was clearly wrong to accept Mr Cs client
agreement on the basis that we advise and make a recommendation for you after we haveassessed your needs, but I accept this was a pre-ticked option on the form. I also accept
that the use of standard letters to request details from the ceding schemes referring to
reviewing Mr Cs arrangements was likely done out of convenience.
I dont think AJPs collection of Mr Cs personal circumstances and objectives on a fact find
conferred any obligation on FN&C to make a personal recommendation. However it did
provide useful information for FN&C to decide if it was consistent with its wider regulatory
obligations to arrange the SIPP for Mr C  something to which it has itself referred  so Ill 
return to this later. And AJPs completion of the fact find also lends weight to the suggestion
(which again Ill come to later) that AJP was also advising Mr C.
The arrangements made between AJP and FN&C seem to me to place FN&C in the position
of carrying out the motions of being an adviser such that this was acceptable for
Rowanmoors purposes, without actually making a personal recommendation to Mr C. In
these circumstances I dont agree with the investigator that solely because FN&C advised on
the SIPP, it had to tailor the advice it gave him to the specific investments he would be
making within the SIPP. Those obligations effectively stem from COBS 9.2.2R in the
regulators handbook (such as understanding the clients investment objectives, his ability to
bear investment risks related to those objectives, and having the necessary knowledge and
experience). But COBS 9 only applies to a firm making a personal recommendation.
That doesnt mean that the direct offer pack resulted in no regulatory obligations on FN&C at
all, however. The clients best interests rule at COBS 2.1.1R and the fair, clear and not
misleading rule at COBS 4.2.1R still applied. FN&C didnt make a personal recommendation
to Mr C specifically, but it did in my view give advice and information on the Rowanmoor
SIPP that wasnt likely to be in the best interests of many retail consumers (those for whom
the additional risks of the sort of unregulated commercial property investments only
accessible within a SIPP werent warranted). And it hadnt given a fair, clear and not
misleading overview of the other ways in which such investors could still access commercial
property through insured funds.
I appreciate that FN&C will say that the direct offer pack wasnt targeted at investors like
Mr C, but rather the high net worth sportspeople it has referred to. But Ill keep in mind that
FN&C knew that Mr C saw its pack (and signed to say he had done so) as I go on to
consider next what other information FN&C should have known.
What did FN&C know about AJPs involvement and Mr Cs investment intentions?
Even though Mr G was no longer authorised I dont find it implausible, as Mr C says, that he
continued to give Mr C advice. Not only because of their earlier advisory relationship, but
also from whats been preserved of the AJP website either side of the events. Whilst
peppered with warnings that AJP wasnt providing advice, it said was an alternative asset
broker finding investment solutions for clients and that it recognised the importance for an
inclusion of alternative strategies to pension and investment portfolios.
It would have been fairly difficult to find solutions for clients pensions without giving advice
and in any event, I think its clear from the way AJP referred Mr C to FN&C that it had
strayed into advising on the use of a personal pension (which is definitely a specified
investment) to make the alternative investments. AJP told FN&C that Mr C preferred to use
Rowanmoor because of AJPs agreed charges, which is significant for two reasons.
Firstly, rather than simply highlighting that SIPPs could be used to make the alternative
investments it was advising Mr C on, AJP had steered Mr C towards one particular provider.
In effect it had made the same mistake as FN&C did in bringing a specific SIPP into the
scope of its advice. It told FN&C it had retained a Rowanmoor application form on file. So I
find Mr Cs testimony that AJP had also advised him plausible and persuasive.Secondly, it shows that from the very beginning FN&C should have been aware that AJP
had some sort of agreement with Rowanmoor, and it had every opportunity to enquire further
as to what transactions AJP would be carrying out on Mr Cs SIPP. I note AJPs website
actually said it was Continuing to work closely with a best of breed team of industry
professionals including niche SIPP and SSAS companies.
FN&C says it didnt know what Mr C was going to use his SIPP for, or that the investments
would be unregulated  but this also doesnt stand up to scrutiny. As a result of the fact find
AJP completed, FN&C knew that Mr C was considering Directly held, tangible assets such
as commercial property, land & commodities. A similar note was made on the Rowanmoor
application form which AJP had filled in.
Given that Mr C was responding to a direct offer pack focusing on the use of a SIPP for
commercial property, thats hardly surprising. And I dont think the target market for this
direct offer would be people  usually businesspersons  already with their own commercial
property in mind. It was people who, as the pack suggested, were attracted to popular
investments including hotel rooms and other property overseas: investments which it should
have been fairly obvious were likely to be unregulated by their very nature.
The emails between AJP and FN&C which its solicitor has provided also shed further light on
how much FN&C knew about the clients. When reading the following messages Ive taken
into account that FN&C has since claimed that it originally believed that these clients were
going to be high net worth sportspeople and that Mr C was only the second such client, and
says it only later realised over time that the clients were not of the background suggested.
In an email from FN&C to Mr G of AJP dated 24 August 2012, FN&C gave updates on a
number of other clients applications which, judging by the many lines of redacted text, are
already likely to number more than two. FN&C is free to say otherwise. It culminated with the
following admission that many of the clients were investing in alternative assets:
Based on the number of cases now in our agency, which are in drawdown, I have asked
[named individual] to obtain PDFs (where possible) of assets which each client holds. No
doubt, she will speak to [other named individuals] shortly.
In the cases where alternative assets cannot be justified, I would suggest that the client is
advised in the first instance and if they still wish to proceed, then, sadly, they will have to
find another adviser to facilitate this. However, if they are happy to go down the regulated
route, then we would pay AJP a substantial Introducer Fee. I'm afraid, at this stage, I can't
think of a better way around it.
Im therefore satisfied that FN&C already knew shortly after Mr C was referred to it, and
about two months before it submitted his application to Rowanmoor, that a pattern was
developing where AJPs clients were proposing to invest in unregulated investments that it
was unable to justify (and would have to advise them against making). It is plainly not
tenable from the evidence FN&C has presented that it could successfully deny knowledge of
this fact until after Mr Cs SIPP had been established.
There is then a somewhat prophetic email from FN&C to AJP which its solicitor has quoted
from dated 11 January 2013 (I havent been shown the original, but the first three of Mr Cs
investments had been made by this point):
Soon, if not already, the FSA will carefully monitor the sale of unregulated assets and the
fact that all the transfers that Im doing end up in unregulated funds could attract
unwelcome attention. It is true that I am not involved with the final investment choice but,
as the only regulated individual in this process, it is inconceivable that I wont be asked
how these introductions came to me and why it didnt raise any concerns with me, shouldthere be a problem in the future.
My other concern is that none of the clients that Ive looked at so farshould be investing
in anything unregulated, based on the information that weve received. They simply dont
have sufficient financial wherewithal to understand the full implications of unregulated 
investment, particularly with regard to risk and any recourse if things go wrong, and I
dont wish to be linked to any clients who have not clearly demonstrated that they know
what theyre doing.
FN&Cs solicitor suggests this email was sent in response to FN&C gaining access to
Rowanmoors online portal in July/August 2012, from which it could see that all clients were
in unregulated investments. It explains the long time to react by saying that FN&C was
waiting for AJP to provide it with prospectuses, in order to determine how risky the
investments were. But its email makes no reference to any analysis of the investments. It
relates to information it had about the clients  information such as that which AJP had
already supplied for Mr C on the fact find.
So, I find the premise of the second email (that FN&C knew there was a serious problem
with the introductions) little different to that conveyed in the earlier one of 24 August 2012.
And the earlier message looks likely to me to be FN&Cs initial reaction to seeing details of
the investments on Rowanmoors online portal.
I say the January 2013 email was prophetic, because on 28 January Rowanmoor then wrote
to FN&C alerting it to the FCA Alert on authorised IFAs working with unauthorised
introducers. Rowanmoors letter pointed out that the FCA expected it to whistle blow if it
saw examples of advice being given only on the pension transfer and not on the
investments. FN&C says it took comfort in concluding from this letter that Rowanmoor would
place no more unregulated investments at AJPs direct request.
FN&C appears to now be using this as an excuse for why it did not find out what investments
Mr C had already made - even though his SIPP had by this point already been in force for
about two months, and it admits it had already realised it needed to find this out for all of the
investors (including Mr C) previously. That is again a contradiction which makes little sense.
And despite the misgivings it had about AJP by this point, from what I can see FN&C sought
no further clarification from and gave no prompt instructions to Rowanmoor; made no
immediate attempt to remove itself from the SIPP; and made no attempt to contact Mr C to
make him aware of its concerns.
It appears that FN&C broke ties with AJP at around the time of an email I havent seen from
11 March 2013, where AJP apparently indicated it had another authorised firm lined up to
process the transfers. As Ive explained above, no such firm took agency over Mr Cs SIPP
before the final two investments were made  and FN&C was wrong to assume (without
checking) that this had happened. However, I note that Rowanmoor accepted the instruction
for Mr Cs final investment (given on 14 May 2013) about three weeks after it changed
FN&Cs agency on the policy to AJP at Mr Cs request  and Ill make allowance for this later
in my decision.
Ive seen all I need to conclude that on the balance of probabilities, FN&C knew all along
that Mr C was likely going to be making unregulated or high risk alternative investments
within his SIPP, of the sort that were unlikely to be appropriate for him as a retail investor 
and that AJP would be arranging those investments directly with Rowanmoor. With the
exception of Physioflexx a small investment about which we have little information), Mr Cs
other investments were all in commercial property  either in the UK or overseas. This was
precisely the sort of investment promoted in the direct offer pack to which hed responded.
It doesnt matter whether FN&C knew precisely which schemes Mr C was going to beinvesting in, although I do think it missed numerous opportunities to find that out (and AJPs
own website would have been a giveaway). There appear to have already been more than
two clients in Mr Cs position by the time it began raising concerns in August 2012, but it took
an inexplicably long time to act on those concerns  by which time it had forwarded Mr Cs 
application to Rowanmoor on 22 October 2012, and AJP had been able to make the
investments directly with Rowanmoor.
The evidence also suggests it was AJPs modus operandi to send FN&C information about
the client on a fact find. Indeed Ive noted its possible that FN&C valued this information so
that it could have reassurance about the type of clients it was accepting from AJP. Its of
more concern, therefore, why it didnt then act on this information more quickly. The fact find
showed Mr C worked in maintenance and earned £24,500pa. Other than his own home and
a 50% share in an inherited property, Mr Cs only other savings were £4,500 in ISAs. A box
had been ticked on the form to say that the deferred pensions Mr C was contemplating
transferring into a SIPP were a significant proportion of my financial wealth with which I do
not want to take unnecessary risks.
FN&C has commented that 43 clients were transferred by AJP into its agency without their
prior knowledge and after their SIPPs had already been set up. If that is correct, it is difficult
to see how such arrangements could be made without the clients or FN&Cs knowledge. But
in any event I cant see that it has any bearing on Mr Cs case, because FN&C already knew
(and failed to enquire into or rectify) that it had arranged a SIPP for him within which AJP
had likely advised Mr C to invest entirely in unregulated assets.
How should FN&C have acted, given what it knew in Mr Cs case?
In order to decide the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, Ive taken into account
whether FN&C complied with the FCAs principles and rules  given the wider circumstances
of the relationship it entered into with AJP, what it expected to happen through that
relationship, and what actually transpired. In my view the most relevant of the Principles for
Businesses set out in the PRIN section of the handbook to the complaint are these:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
There is also an overlap here with the clients best interests rule at COBS 2.1.1R(1): A firm
must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
By the time it sent off Mr Cs application, and given what Ive said above was recorded in the
fact find, FN&C ought to have known that he wasnt the type of high net worth sportsperson
it was expecting to be introduced by AJP. FN&C received the fact find shortly after 9 August
2012, and we know that by 24 August it knew that there quite a few more people AJP had
referred who were in a similar position of not being suited to investing mainly in alternative
assets. At this stage I think its most likely that FN&C continued to contemplate the
possibility for a while longer that as a result of the business model it was using, it might not
have any liability to Mr C for the suitability of his SIPP or the investments he made within it.
That doesnt change the fact that before it even submitted Mr Cs SIPP application, FN&C
should have realised that the overseas and/or highly specialised commercial property
schemes AJP was in all likelihood going to arrange, werent going to be suitable for much  if
any  of Mr Cs portfolio. FN&C should have been mindful that the transfer process couldonly be started using the information it had obtained from Mr Cs ceding schemes, which
AJP as an unauthorised firm might otherwise have found it difficult to obtain.
I think FN&C would have been aware that AJPs submission of Mr Cs application had failed,
as it was resubmitting the same application some days later. Even though FN&C did actually
inform Rowanmoor that it hadnt advised Mr C, theres an obvious mismatch between the
layer of comfort Rowanmoor was evidently getting from FN&Cs inclusion in the SIPP
arrangements and the apparent belief FN&C had, at least initially, that it wouldnt bear any
responsibility for the investments Mr C went on to make. I think an adviser acting reasonably
in FN&Cs position ought to have been much more concerned about the role it was playing;
irrespective of whether it was only collecting a net fee of only £800 per case.
This did not add up at all  and it all happened in the context of FN&C being aware AJP had
already been discussing the SIPP and/or commercial property investments directly with
Mr C, after carrying out fact finding with him that could easily have been consistent with
providing advice. Mr C hadnt just responded directly to FN&Cs direct offer pack: he
expressed an interest in transferring to the SIPP via AJP. AJP had clearly been discussing
funding a SIPP using Mr Cs existing pensions: the only way FN&C knew how to contact
Mr Cs ceding schemes was as a result of the information collected on the fact find by AJP.
FN&C never met or spoke to Mr C.
I think that FN&C might have reasonably suspected, at the very least, that AJP was carrying
on the specified activity of advising on investments (Article 53 of the Regulated Activities
Order) in relation to the SIPP itself - given that its ability to go on to recommend the resulting
unregulated investments depended on transfers first being made into the SIPP. Its also very
much part of FN&Cs arguments in response to the complaint that AJP had advised Mr C.
But even if Im wrong on that, FN&C should also have considered the prospect that AJP
either already was, or would be going on to, carry out the specified activity of arranging deals
(Article 25(1)) for any assets that would on analysis amount to collective investment
schemes or loan notes, as these are types of specified investment. And given its close
involvement in co-ordinating Mr Cs application for the SIPP  FN&C literally paid AJP for
filling in the paperwork  AJP was also at the very least making arrangements with a view to
Mr C transacting in the SIPP, which is a separately specified activity under at Article 25(2).
AJP wouldnt have been able to rely on any of the exclusions available from the making
arrangements activity, essentially because its referral of Mr C was not a one-off, and it
wasnt (at least intentionally or by design) referring Mr C to FN&C for the purpose of Mr C
then receiving independent advice. AJP was clearly carrying out its activities by way of
business, so to do so without FCA authorisation raised the possibility of significant consumer
detriment and in all probability was a legal breach of FSMA  at least in respect of the
making arrangements activity and potentially others.
Separately and alternatively to this, as FN&C admits identifying, its mutual clients with AJP
were proceeding to invest a significant proportion of their SIPPs in alternative assets. Its own
actions (but taken too late) show that this was contrary to the advice or arrangements that it
would expect to be making for many if not all of those retail clients as an FCA authorised
firm. So there was obviously also a systemic problem resulting from AJPs involvement.
I think FN&C ought reasonably to have realised  even without communicating a personal
recommendation to Mr C  that his intended use of a SIPP to make investments in
alternative assets was also highly unlikely to be appropriate for someone in the
circumstances which were disclosed to it in the fact find. As I noted above, it should also
have been mindful that Mr C had seen a direct offer pack which evidently was targeted at
other (more sophisticated or higher net worth) investors.It seems AJP had already attempted to arrange the SIPP by contacting Rowanmoor itself.
Fortunately  or so FN&C should have thought  that application had failed. This meant that 
in resubmitting the application itself, and failing to highlight to Mr C that he had responded to
and been influenced by a direct offer pack that should not have been targeted at him, FN&C
was acting contrary to Mr Cs best interests.
I dont think FN&C met its obligations to the regulator under Principles 2, 3, or 6 here. If it
had conducted its business with due skill, care and diligence and took reasonable care to
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems, it should already have identified that there was a significant risk of
consumer detriment in the referrals it was receiving from AJP. In line with that, I think it
should also have spotted the clear risks to Mr C of the SIPP application proceeding and,
acting in his best interests, declined to proceed.
What would Mr C have done if FN&C had declined to proceed with his application?
I think it would have been incumbent on FN&C, in identifying the significant risk of detriment
from AJPs involvement, to set the matter straight and notify Rowanmoor that it was playing
no part in the applications. But the earliest I can see it gave instructions to Rowanmoor was
in August 2013, after Mr Cs five investments had been made. And given how Mr C was
already a responder to its direct offer pack, then in observing Principle 6 and COBS
2.1.1R(1) I think FN&C was also obliged to explain to Mr C why it could not go ahead.
This meant FN&C needed to tell Mr C that it had been asked to arrange a SIPP that it had
reason to think was going to be used to make investments that could prove to be unsuitable
for him. It should have set out that there were rules it had to follow, as an authorised firm,
which AJP was not subject to, and what Mr C would lose by continuing to work with AJP 
such as being able to complain or access compensation arrangements. I cant see how, after
initially offering Mr C the SIPP opportunity and taking him on as a client, FN&C could
discharge its obligations to him by doing anything else.
So, Ive considered the impact of FN&C giving such an explanation to Mr C. I think Mr Cs
faith in what Mr G was telling him would have been shaken. He says in his testimony that
Mr G hadnt told him he was no longer authorised by the FSA/FCA. On that basis I think
Mr C would have been shocked to learn differently. If Mr C is mistaken and he did know that
Mr G was no longer authorised, he would most likely have known that was the reason for
FN&Cs involvement  and yet here the authorised firm (FN&C) was giving him a reason to
doubt the course of action he was being encouraged to take. Whichever it is, I dont think
Mr C would have dismissed what FN&C was telling him lightly.
As a result its entirely possible that Mr Cs willingness to proceed stopped there and then.
But to the extent that I recognise he had a long-standing relationship with Mr G, there would
also have been practical difficulties if  on AJPs encouragement  he still wanted to take
advantage of the commercial property investments being shown to him. Im not satisfied that
AJP would have been able to find either another IFA or another SIPP provider that was
willing to transact on the same basis as the arrangement it had with FN&C.
Ive taken into account that a box could be ticked on Rowanmoors application saying I am
not appointing an Independent Financial Adviser. This suggests that it was theoretically
possible, at one point in time, for Rowanmoor to accept applications on that basis. However,
Im not persuaded it would have been possible for AJP to do this at the time of Mr Cs
application, and/or in order to embark on its particular choice of investments. Rowanmoor
seems to have made a point of requesting that the application was resubmitted by FN&C in
order to limit its own liability in respect of the investments Mr C might make. That is
reinforced by Rowanmoors request that Mr C appoint a new (authorised) IFA to his plan
after FN&C was removed.I dont find it likely on the balance of probabilities that another IFA would have been prepared
to contravene the regulators principles and rules in the way FN&C did. Im not saying its
impossible, and I note FN&C says AJP believed it had found such an IFA, but I dont find it
would have been more likely than not to happen. I would make a similar observation about
the likelihood of another SIPP provider being prepared to accept applications directly from
an unauthorised introducer. Ill explain why.
FN&Cs refusal to get involved would in all likelihood have delayed any SIPP application
beyond January 2013  when the FCAs alert raised concerns about authorised firms
relationships with unauthorised introducers. And in October 2012 the FSA had published its
second thematic review into SIPP operators, again raising significant concerns about firms
who had accepted business from these introducers directly.
There is no compelling evidence that Mr C was able to make any further investments under
another IFAs agency  for the simple reason that four of his investments were actually made
whilst FN&C still held agency over the plan. And I think its likely Rowanmoor was only
prepared to make the fifth a few weeks after FN&C lost agency because it was a
continuation of that chain of investments. We know a new IFA had not even been appointed
to the plan by September 2013, when Mr C then asked to be a direct client of Rowanmoor.
In all of these circumstances I dont see how I could fairly conclude that  more likely than
not  AJP would have been successful in finding another SIPP provider or authorised
adviser to facilitate these investments for Mr C. From what I can see, Mr C lacked the
knowledge or expertise to make these investments unassisted. The insured property funds
that he invested in with his previous providers, or the fact he made transfers before, were
most likely because he had been advised to do so by an authorised firm (such as Mr G at
the time), or alternatively these were generic fund options he was steered towards by the
provider itself. I dont think either of these show a predetermination to only seek out
investments in property or land assets  and in particular unregulated ones.
Because of this, I dont think it alters the outcome of this complaint that Mr C was prepared
to sign high risk disclaimers. Ive considered the wording of the letters and they amount to
saying that Rowanmoor hadnt assessed the suitability of the investment for Mr Cs personal
circumstances, or the risks involved. They encourage him to seek legal and other
professional advice. What Mr C signed read largely as follows: I understand there are risks
inherent in the proposed transaction and that Rowanmoor Pensions will not be liable on the
basis stated above. However I do not wish to appoint legal advisers in this matter.
In my view Mr Cs willingness to sign these forms was consistent with the fact he believed he
was being advised professionally by AJP. I cant fairly say his decision would have been the
same had FN&C warned him that he was being encouraged to take an inappropriate course
of action  or even that he would have been able to make those investments anyway, for the
reasons Ive given above.
FN&Cs solicitor says that this service hasnt followed the law on causation. Ive taken into
account the law but also what I consider to be fair and reasonable, and this is not explained
solely by reference to case-law. The approach Ive taken is consistent with that which this
service generally adopts and shouldnt be unexpected. On balance, Im persuaded that but
for FN&Cs shortcomings Mr C wouldnt have gone ahead and started the Rowanmoor SIPP
(or another SIPP similar to it) and made the sorts of investments he made. I think he would
have most likely remained with his existing personal pension providers.
Other arguments raised by Mr Cs representativeThe investigator only briefly touched on some further arguments that were raised. Firstly, I 
dont think the representatives comments about the COBS 10 Appropriateness chapter of
the regulators handbook apply in this case. At the time of the events subject to this
complaint, COBS 10 was stated to apply (so far as is relevant here) where a firm provides
investment services other than making a personal recommendation and managing
investments; or where it arranges derivatives or warrants in response to direct offer
promotions.
Although FN&C didnt make a personal recommendation or manage funds for Mr C, its
advice on the SIPP also didnt meet the regulators definition of investment service. This is
essentially one of a number of prescribed services involving a financial instrument, which in
turn were defined in the relevant EU Directive on Markets in Financial Instruments (MiFID).
They cover a range of specific securities and other investments that can be traded, but not a
personal pension wrapper itself. And FN&C didnt arrange anything other than the SIPP in
this case, so it hasnt arranged derivatives or warrants for Mr C either.
The investigator invited FN&Cs solicitor to respond to his comments about s.27 of FSMA. It
has not done so. As Im satisfied that there are adequate grounds for Mr Cs complaint to be
upheld without reference to s.27 of FSMA, I am not going to spend further time commenting
on that here.
I also set out how I proposed this complaint should be redressed in my Provisional Decision, 
which Ill come to again later. But essentially, I said that it could exclude the fifth (Akbuk 
Resort Group) investment from the redress it paid.
Responses to my Provisional Decision
Mr C confirmed that he accepted the Provisional Decision. In summary, FN&Cs adviser 
wanted the following points to be noted:
oHe categorically didnt know that Mr C was going to be making unregulated or high 
risk investments in his SIPP. So, it was impossible for him to prevent something that 
to his knowledge hadnt happened.
oHe did know that AJP was going to be advising/coercing/encouraging [Mr C] to 
make these types of investment but [Mr C] couldnt make these types of investment 
without going through me to do them.
oHe reiterated a point which I already thought was incorrect  that Mr C had already 
signed unregulated investment forms prior to making the SIPP transfer.
oIt was 11 February 2013 (not 11 March) when AJP informed FN&C it had lined up a 
different IFA to take over agency on the SIPPs. There was no reason for me to 
question this, as he needed an IFA to peddle his unregulated investments.
oAs a result, FN&C shouldnt be held responsible for the fourth (Physioflexx) 
investment.
oI should confirm what has happened between Mr C and FSCS in respect of 
Rowanmoors role in this affair. Mr C has a duty to mitigate his loss and the likely 
outcome of a provider due diligence complaint would achieve this.
oRowanmoor should have rejected Mr Cs application to take out the SIPP.
oThis and another similar complaint has caused him, his family and staff significant 
stress and upset over the last six years, at a time when there was illness in his 
family. As a small firm he feels bullied and persecuted rather than the necessary 
level of care taken in exercising our powers. 
oHis errors pale into insignificance compared to the deliberate misconduct by other 
parties and we should not question his honesty and integrity when we have never 
met him.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I recognise this will be very disappointing for FN&C and its adviser, I havent been 
persuaded to revise my provisional findings. Before I explain why, Id also like to say I 
appreciate the time they have taken to highlight their concerns with the outcome and the 
process used to reach it  and I will also address those concerns first.
As a dispute resolution service, we are always mindful of the people at the end of our 
decisions  be they consumers or individuals running a small firm  and the impact of our 
decisions on those individuals. However, the adviser in this case is not the only person who 
will say they were caused great upset which, in my view, could have entirely been avoided if 
FN&C had not facilitated the arrangements with AJP: arrangements which I questioned on a 
number of levels in my Provisional Decision. 
The adviser observes that I havent met him. It is not my intention to question his honesty or 
integrity on a personal level but to refer to the regulatory standards that his firm (FN&C) was 
bound to adhere to. When referring to personal contact its also worth noting here that a key 
part of my reasoning was that FN&C should itself have had direct contact with Mr C to 
explain the concerns it admits having about AJPs actions. It should have cautioned him 
about the risks he would be taking if he proceeded with investments it admits knowing were 
highly likely to be unsuitable for investors like him.
The reason FN&C gives for its adviser not taking those steps is essentially an assumption 
that AJP and Rowanmoor would be stuck without its cooperation. In my view that falls 
significantly short of demonstrating that FN&C complied with the regulators principles and 
rules to act in Mr Cs best interests. It conveniently allowed it to avoid cautioning Mr C at all 
about the inappropriate course of action he was likely to be taking. And I accept this has now 
come at considerable cost to FN&C, because it has exposed FN&C to the losses I proposed 
it should compensate in my Provisional Decision. But those losses flow directly from FN&Cs 
failure to follow regulatory rules and guidance, which is what Im considering here.
FN&C says that I should acknowledge the role AJP and Rowanmoor played in those losses 
 I expect it wishes me to only make it pay at most a proportion of them. And it appears to be 
concerned that Mr C will obtain compensation from FSCS in respect of Rowanmoors 
involvement, in addition to the compensation Im requiring it to pay, with the possibility that 
these may overlap.
I do understand the advisers concerns on this point  it obviously isnt particularly neat that 
some complaints fall to be considered by FSCS on account of the firms being in liquidation. 
But that is an aspect of the regulatory landscape that I cannot control. AJP has in any event 
been dissolved and its not clear as a result whether Mr C could have been successful in 
obtaining compensation from that firm. It also wasnt bound by the rules and guidance FN&C 
was, which means it is reasonable to expect FN&C to compensate Mr C for investments 
facilitated by AJP that it was in a position to prevent.
And concerning the point about Mr Cs duty to mitigate his loss, Im not aware that the law 
requires him to take action against every party that might have caused him loss if, in fact, he 
believes one party alone could have prevented those losses. He might choose to complain 
to others to maximise his chances of recovering compensation, and that might indeed be 
necessary in this case in respect of at least the fifth investment which Ill explain more about 
below. But ultimately, thats a matter for him - and its a matter for FSCS and not this service 
if it decides to pay further compensation following the award I make. Im not satisfied the points being made here are issues that relate to Mr Cs duty to mitigate 
his loss going forward. Thats a different question, and it should be noted there that its 
somewhat difficult for Mr C to mitigate a loss where investments remain illiquid and he 
cannot access them. I also have difficulty with FN&Cs argument that Rowanmoor shouldnt 
have established the SIPP at all, given that it was arranged by an FCA-authorised adviser 
(FN&C) in circumstances where FN&C admits it already had misgivings about the 
involvement of an unregulated third party. I dont think this argument assists FN&C.
I said in my Provisional Decision that I had seen the unregulated investment forms which 
had been signed before Mr Cs application for the SIPP was submitted by FN&C. The dates 
of those forms are given in the background section above. I dont therefore know why FN&C 
has persisted with this point. If its referring to a different form than the Rowanmoor high risk 
declaration Im referring to  perhaps some sort of reservation form for the investments 
themselves  it hasnt provided any evidence of these for me to comment on. In any event, if 
no funds had been received in the SIPP, or Mr C had been deterred (by FN&C engaging 
properly with him) from making the investments, Im satisfied on balance they wouldnt have 
happened.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as close as possible
to the position he would probably now be in, if FN&C had treated him fairly. On the balance
of probabilities Im persuaded that Mr C would have remained in his previous pension plans, 
instead of transferring to the Rowanmoor SIPP. 
On the matter of the fourth (Physioflexx) investment, FN&C suggested it only realised later 
on that Rowanmoor had still been prepared to make investments after the FCA issued its 
Alert on unregulated introducers. It now adds that AJP informed it that it had lined up a 
different IFA to take over agency on the SIPPs a month earlier than I said in the Provisional 
Decision. But that hasnt changed my view. It must have strongly suspected  and did 
nothing to dispel the probability  that Rowanmoor had already gone behind its back as the 
authorised firm in accepting investment instructions directly from AJP before January 2013. 
Given that FN&C sought no further clarification from Rowanmoor following its January 2013 
letter about the FCA alert, that doesnt in my view provide sufficient comfort that Rowanmoor 
wouldnt continue to do the same. So I dont think it would be appropriate to make any 
reduction to redress in respect of the fourth investment.
Regarding the fifth (Akbuk) investment, Ive taken into account that FN&C agreed at the 
outset to take an ongoing fee of £200pa  it informed Mr C in writing this was to deal with 
the administration of the plan initially and in future years. That provides another reason why 
it should have found out what investments were being made. However the fifth investment 
was made after Mr C himself removed FN&C as agent from the SIPP, and Im satisfied that 
makes a material difference. From this point Mr C now couldnt have expected FN&C to 
have any administrative or other responsibility for the fifth investment. And its usually the 
case that a SIPP provider will also notify the agent that theyve been removed from the 
SIPP. That would also give FN&C an expectation that it no longer had a future responsibility.
This investment couldnt have been arranged if FN&C hadnt allowed the SIPP to be set up. 
However, I dont think it would be fair to base compensation in respect of the fifth investment 
on a simple but for test in the particular circumstances here. I think a reasonable point for 
FN&C to cease to have any responsibility for ongoing investments is when Mr C removed 
FN&C as agent from his SIPP.My Provisional Decision discussed the debenture Rowanmoor held over AJP. I said I had 
already concluded that it should have been obvious to FN&C that AJP was closely involved 
with Rowanmoor before it sent off Mr Cs SIPP application. So, I didnt think this evidence 
changed the fact that Mr Cs losses on the first four investments could all have been avoided 
by FN&C acting prudently and in Mr Cs best interests. 
I think it's important to point out that I'm not saying FN&C is wholly responsible for the losses 
simply because Rowanmoor has defaulted to FSCS. My starting point as to causation is that 
FN&C inappropriately arranged a SIPP and failed to caution Mr C against getting involved 
with AJP. So it is responsible for the losses Mr C suffered in transferring to the SIPP and 
investing as he did. 
That isn't, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational  but reflects the facts of the case and my 
view of the fair and reasonable position. FN&C could have prevented the transfer and the 
investments. Instead its actions allowed them to be facilitated and it failed to make Mr C 
aware of the likely risks he would be exposed to from the investments AJP was known to be 
arranging. Because of all the findings Ive reached it is, in my view, fair and reasonable that 
FN&C should account to him for the full extent of his losses on investments one to four.
It isnt possible to say precisely where Mr C would have invested, had he not invested his
three pensions into the Rowanmoor SIPP and not made the first four investments. But Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr C fairly Feast Noble & Company LLP must therefore:
Compare the performance of Mr C's Rowanmoor SIPP with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, make sufficient payment into Mr C's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. FN&C shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If FN&C is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's expected marginal rate of 
tax whilst he is drawing his pension benefits. I consider it likely Mr C will be a basic 
rate taxpayer in retirement, so this reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, as Mr C would have been able to take a tax free lump sum from his 
SIPP, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation  meaning a 
reduction of 15% overall.
Pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a result of 
FN&Cs failure to treat him fairly and act in his best interests, leading to the loss of 
the majority of his pension benefits.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.investment
namestatus Benchmark From (start 
dateTo (end 
date)Further interest
SIPP 
(excluding 
Akbuk 
Resort 
Group 
investment)still 
existsFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of 
each
transfer 
respectivelydate of
this Final 
Decision8% per annum 
simple if not settled 
within 28 days of 
receipt of Mr Cs 
acceptance of the 
Final Decision
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the whole SIPP including any proceeds of the fifth
investment in Akbuk Resort Group (Harmony Bay) at the end date. (Ive set out under the
next heading what adjustments can be made to the fair value to ensure the investment into,
and income from, the fifth investment can be excluded from the calculation.)
In respect of the investments still held in the SIPP that havent been closed down and are
illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find
their actual value. So, the value of any such investment(s) should be assumed to be nil when
arriving at the actual value of the SIPP. FN&C should take ownership of any such illiquid
investment(s)  other than Akbuk Resort Group  by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the SIPP provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation before 
adjustment for tax, and the balance paid as above.
If FN&C is unable to purchase the investment(s) their value should be assumed to be nil for
the purposes of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr C provides an undertaking to
repay it any amount he may receive from those investment(s) in the future. That undertaking
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the
pension plan. FN&C will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the sums transferred to the SIPP would have been worth at the end date had
they grown in line with the benchmark.
The gross amounts of any withdrawal, income or other distribution paid out of the SIPP to
Mr C directly should be deducted from the fair value at the point(s) they were actually paid
so they cease to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. Other than what I set
out specifically below, this does not apply to distributions retained within the SIPP, as this
will be accounted for (after charges) in the SIPPs actual value.
In order to remove the investment in Akbuk Resort Group (Harmony Bay) from the
calculation, a deduction of £15,850 (the investment amount) should be made from the fair
value on 31 May 2013. Additions should also be made to the fair value for the following
known distributions made from Harmony Bay into the SIPP (FN&C should check there were
no more distributions or a final payment from Harmony Bay as these would also need to be
added from the dates they were paid):
06/09/2013 £154.00 02/12/2014 £158.00
29/11/2013 £154.00 03/03/2015 £308.00
11/03/2014 £ 16.50 02/06/2015 £308.00
06/06/2014 £154.00 01/09/2015 £308.00
08/09/2014 £308.00 14/12/2015 £158.00
[no further income until at least 1 September 2017]I recognise that there are potentially more accurate ways of allowing for the investment in
Harmony Bay, but there is no guarantee that Rowanmoor would have been able to provide a
notional value excluding this investment even before it went into administration. As such, I
consider this to be the most appropriate method of arriving at fair compensation.
To the extent that the SIPP continues to exist because of investments that are illiquid (with
the exception of the Harmony Bay investment if that remains illiquid), those investments
need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by FN&C
taking over the investments, or this is something that Mr C can discuss with Rowanmoors
successor directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that FN&C also pays Mr C an upfront lump sum
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees) - if the
SIPP cannot be closed due to illiquid investments other than the fifth investment in Harmony
Bay. This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be
closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
From the information collected on AJPs fact find, Mr C wanted capital growth and 
was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Feast Noble & Company LLP considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr C how much its taken off. FN&C should also give Mr C a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Feast Noble & Company LLP to pay him 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman