DRN-1684664
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined her claim for storm damage to 
a boundary wall under her landlords home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M made a claim after the wall collapsed. Ageas sent experts (P) to inspect and validate 
the claim. P said the wall wasnt built as standard and if it had been built to the right 
specification the weather wouldnt have been able to make it collapse. Ageas said storm 
wasnt the cause of the damage. It referred to the policy exclusion for faulty workmanship 
and declined the claim. Unhappy with this Mrs M brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted what Ageas had said. She said 
the claim didnt meet the three criteria required for us to accept it as a storm claim. Our 
investigator said the details from P were the most persuasive. She also accepted Ps point 
that the wall was in part resting against a wooden fence that remained standing despite the 
storm. Our investigator also noted that Ageas said no other claims were made within the 
area for that particular storm.
Mrs M remained unhappy with this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
In relation to question one Ageas accept that there were storm conditions, so the answer is 
yes.
Regarding question two I think the damage is consistent with what a storm would cause so 
the answer is yes.
Finally, on question three the evidence from P states the wall collapsed due to the lack of 
piers for this type of wall. It said this meant the wall wasnt standard construction. Ageas said 
if the correct construction had been undertaken the wall wouldve stayed standing despite 
the storm. It also pointed out that there were no other claims throughout the area for the 
same storm. It highlighted that the wooden fence was holding up the leaning brick. So not 
only had the storm not damaged the wooden fence it was still strong enough to hold up the 
leaning bricks. So, I think the answer to question three is no.
Ive checked the policy wording. The clause Ageas referred to when it declined the claim is:
10 Faulty workmanship
Loss destruction or damage directly occasioned by faulty workmanship, defective design or 
defective materials.
So, I needed to see evidence to outweigh this. And in this case, I havent seen it. Ive had 
details from Mrs Ms contractors saying the wall collapsed because of probably heavy, gusty 
winds and winds must have been very strong. But this doesnt tell me about the 
construction of the wall, and it isnt convincing about the storm either. Based on the balance 
of the evidence I think Ageas did act reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim for 
the wall.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman