DRN-4276002
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Aviva insurance Limited declined a claim for damage to her car 
following an incident on 25 January 2023. 
What happened
Mrs L had comprehensive insurance for her car with Aviva. In January 2023 she reported 
online to Aviva that her car had been involved in an incident.
As Mrs L hadnt provided any details of the incident Aviva called her on 6 February 2023 to 
get details of what had happened. She told them she was driving to work, her car didnt feel 
right, she braked but her brakes didnt work. She put on her hazard lights and intended to 
drive on slowly, but the car stopped and wouldnt restart. Roadside assistance attended but 
werent able to fix the car, so it was towed to her local dealership.
Based on what she told them had happened Aviva advised Mrs L that her car had broken 
down and mechanical breakdowns werent covered by her policy. As shed told them her car 
was fairly new, they suggested she speak to the manufacturers, to see if the repairs were 
covered by her warranty. But they made it clear that as thered been no accident her policy 
didnt cover her repairs, they couldnt provide a courtesy car and theyd be closing her claim.
Mrs Ls car remained at the dealership where it been taken. She continued to contact Aviva 
as she believed they should cover her repairs as she had comprehensive insurance, and 
she wanted them to provide her with a courtesy car.
Because of the ongoing contact Aviva called Mrs L on 24 April 2023 to remind her that shed 
been told her policy didnt cover her repairs, as her car hadnt been involved in an accident. 
They reiterated that it had suffered a mechanical breakdown, which wasnt covered by her 
policy. It was suggested again that she contact the manufacturers to see if the repairs were 
covered by her warranty.
Mrs L then said that her car had hit the kerb and the engine problems had started from there. 
And she said shed had an accident in 2022 which Aviva had dealt with arranging repairs 
and provided a courtesy car for her. Aviva couldnt find any details of an earlier claim on their 
system. Mrs L cut short the call saying she didnt what to argue and intended to contact our 
service.
The dealership where her car had been taken had contacted the manufacturers about Mrs 
Ls warranty. They emailed Aviva on 18 April 2023 stating that a claim under her warranty 
had been declined due to the car having an insufficient service history. They provided an 
estimate for engine stripping which they said was required to quote Mrs L for repairs. But 
they said they couldnt proceed with any work unless Aviva provided authorisation.
As Mrs L had reported her car being involved in an accident when they spoke to her on 24 
April 2023 Aviva told her theyd arrange for an engineer to inspect the car, to establish 
whether there was evidence that the mechanical problems were due to an accident.
Avivas engineer inspected Mrs Ls car on 2 May 2023 and his report is dated 5 May 2023
The report states before the inspection took place the cars engine had already been partially 
stripped at the request of the manufacturers, to determine if the damage was covered by 
warranty. The engineer was told that the car arrived at the dealership with the engine not 
turning over and a scan of the engine control showed two fault codes -   Cylinder 4 Glow 
plug circuit and No oil pressure. 
A manual attempt was made to turn the crankshaft pulley but the engine was solid and 
wouldnt rotate indicating a full engine seizure. When the engine cylinder head and sump 
were removed for inspection this confirmed the engine was heavily sludged up and the oil 
was very thick and black. The garages report was sent to the warranty department and they 
couldnt find any service records for the car, so rejected the claim on the basis of poor or 
lack of maintenance.
The engineer says that he inspected the car and could only find rotary kerbing damage to all 
four road wheels with the nearside front wheel being the worst. And he says the damage 
evident on the car wouldnt have caused the internal failure of the engine, which was caused 
by poor maintenance, lack of oil changes and very old black oil.
Having received their engineers report Aviva wrote to Mrs L on 5 May 2023 advising her of 
their engineers findings. They reminded her that shed been advised that what shed 
reported to them was a mechanical breakdown which wasnt covered by her policy, and 
theyd suggested she contact the manufacturers to see if the problem was covered by her 
warranty.
They referred her to the section in her policy relating to dishonest or exaggerated claims. 
This says that if a claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated no benefit will be paid under 
the policy. Aviva said theyd referred Mrs L to this as mechanical breakdowns werent 
covered by her policy, and on 24 April 2023 shed told them her engine was damaged after 
her car hit a kerb. The engineers report had shown this wasnt the case so her claim was 
repudiated and Aviva said they werent prepared to offer her insurance cover in the future.
Mrs L raised a complaint about Avivas refusal to cover her repairs or provide her with a 
courtesy vehicle. Aviva didnt uphold her complaint saying they were satisfied theyd reached 
the correct outcome based on the information shed provided and their engineers report.
Mrs L complained to our service. Our investigator considered her case but didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said Aviva had acted reasonably when they declined Mrs Ls claim as her car 
had broken down, rather than been involved in an accident, and mechanical failures arent 
covered by her policy. 
In April 2023 Mrs L advised Aviva that the engine damage had been caused when her car hit 
a kerb. Aviva arranged an engineers inspection and he reported the damage was due to 
poor maintenance, lack of oil changes and very thick black oil. So Aviva made the decision 
to repudiate her claim.
Our investigator said there was no persuasive evidence that Mrs Ls engine damage was 
caused by her car hitting a kerb. The evidence suggested it was caused by a mechanical 
breakdown which isnt covered by her policy. And given that shed changed her account to 
claim her car hit a kerb, Aviva had acted fairly in saying they wouldnt pay any claim under 
her policy.
Mrs L didnt accept our investigators opinion and the case has come to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Aviva made to Mrs L on 6 February 2023. In this call she confirms 
that her car had suffered a mechanical breakdown. 
Mrs L was told clearly by Aviva during this call that her policy didnt cover mechanical 
breakdowns. As she said her car wasnt that old she was advised to contact the 
manufacturers to see if the problem was covered by her warranty. I think this was 
appropriate advice to give her in the circumstances.
During the call Mrs L was anxious for Aviva to provide her with a courtesy car while hers was 
off the road, but she was told that since thered been no accident one wouldnt be provided.
I think Aviva made it clear from the outset that Mrs Ls claim wasnt covered by her policy. 
Her policy says We wont pay for damage under the repair guarantee arising from 
deterioration and wear and tear of parts and component failures.
Mrs L continued to contact Aviva about her repairs and providing her with a courtesy car. On 
24 April 2023 they called her as shed reported that immediately before the engine problems 
the car had hit a kerb. 
After this conversation Aviva arranged for an engineer to inspect Mrs Ls car. He confirmed 
that lack of maintenance and oil changes were the cause of the engine problems Mrs L 
experienced. He found no evidence of an accident having caused the problems.
This confirmed what the garage had found when theyd stripped the cars engine at the 
request of the manufacturers, whod declined to cover the claim as the car hadnt been 
properly maintained. 
By arranging to have Mrs Ls car inspected by an engineer Aviva took the steps Id expect of 
them to establish if theyd been accidental damage to the car following an accident.
Having received their engineers report Aviva wrote to Mrs L the same day to advise her 
what their engineer had reported was the cause of her engine damage. And they told her 
that her claim was repudiated in full, as they believed shed changed her account of what 
had occurred in an attempt to have her repairs covered by her policy. 
Mrs Ls policy states If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated, we will not pay 
any benefit under the policy or return any premium to you. So I think Aviva acted within the 
policy terms and conditions in repudiating the claim.
Mrs L has referred in correspondence to Aviva arranging for the cars engine to be stripped 
and wanting them to cover the cost of this and of engine being reassembled. But the engine 
stripping was authorised by the manufacturers so Aviva arent responsible for any costs 
related to this.
Aviva made it clear to Mrs L from the time she made her claim that it wasnt covered by her 
policy. When she told them her car had hit a kerb before she experienced engine problems 
they investigated this as Id expect them to. But theres no evidence that the problem she 
experienced was anything other than mechanical failure due to poor maintenance. So I think 
they acted reasonably in declining her claim and I wont be asking them to do anything 
further.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint about 
Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman