DRN-2255763
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made her address available to her abusive ex-
husband, which she said caused risk to her and her family.
What happened
Mrs B divorced her abusive ex-husband. To protect her safety and the safety of her family,
she was careful to make sure he didnt have her new address. But when the former family
home was sold, and the mortgage redeemed, Barclays made the old mortgage current
account into an ordinary Barclays bank account, held jointly between Mrs B and her former
husband.
Barclays used Mr Bs name and address for this initially. But when Mrs B gave Barclays her
new address, it changed the address on the joint account. So Mrs Bs new address was on
the statements. This meant that Mrs Bs new address was visible to Mr B online.
Mrs B contacted Barclays. It said that there was nothing it could do until Mrs Bs ex-husband 
agreed to close the account. Barclays contacted him, and the account was then closed.
Barclays wrote to Mrs B about this on 15 January 2019, and said it had followed its own
process. It said then that it always turns an old mortgage current account into a joint current
account once the mortgage is redeemed. It said Mrs B agreed to that when she took out this
mortgage. And it also always updates the addresses on a joint account when it receives a
change of address from either account holder. So it didnt think at this stage that it had done
anything wrong.
Mrs B didnt get that letter. She asked for another copy, and was sent it in March. In April,
Mrs B asked Barclays to think again.
Barclays reinvestigated, starting in July, and in mid-August it issued a second letter. This
time it accepted then that there had been a breach in Mrs Bs personal data. Mrs Bs new
address was visible to Mr B from 16 November 2018 to 10 January 2019. Mrs B notified
Barclays of the problem on 3 January, but Barclays said it did have to get her husbands 
consent to close the account too. Barclays apologised, and it offered Mrs B £500 in 
compensation. Mrs B didnt accept the offer, and brought her complaint to us. Barclays said 
it still paid the £500 into her account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought that the £500 that
Barclays had paid provided a fair outcome. Mrs B didnt agree with that, she said that this
issue had taken eight months to resolve. And shed been caused a great amount of anxiety
because her husband may now have her address. She said initially Barclays wouldnt even
agree to remove her address from the joint account until he had agreed to account closure.
Our investigator said he understood Mrs Bs points, but he didnt change his mind. Mrs B
wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint. So the case came to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I wanted to confirm that Mrs Bs ex-husband had not 
seen her new address, and that he wouldnt be able to access her address in future, 
for instance, by asking for old statements.
Barclays has reassured me that Mrs Bs ex-husband didnt access his account 
between 16 November 2018 and 10 January 2019, while their joint account carried 
her address. So he didnt see her address online. The account is now closed, so 
Barclays says these two statements that carried her address are no longer visible 
online. And Barclays has confirmed that if Mrs Bs ex-husband asks for statements in 
future, these will not carry Mrs Bs address.
Barclays said that Mrs Bs ex-husband cant see her address on his online banking, 
if he looks at these 2 statement. He will he be unable to view Mrs Bs address on 
these 2 statements, should he ever request his personal records in the future.
Mrs B also said that even if her ex-husband hadnt seen her address, shed still spent 
many months worrying about this, and feeling that she and her family were unsafe in 
their home. Barclays has provided no satisfactory answer to why Mrs B wasnt given 
the reassurance that Mr B hadnt actually accessed her address, before now.
Barclays has also not told us why it left Mrs Bs address on the joint account, after 
she told Barclays about the risk to her, but before Barclays had obtained her ex-
husbands agreement to close the account. Barclays now says that either party can 
change the correspondence address, so I think that the address couldve been 
changed immediately to Mrs Bs ex-husbands address, or a branch address.
Barclays has clearly made a mistake here, so I need to consider the impact this had 
on Mrs B. She has described for us the problems she and her family previously 
experienced with her ex-husband. She told us this has involved direct physical 
violence. She explained the lengths she went to in order to make sure that he could 
not find her new home, which has not just involved being careful about giving her 
address to businesses, but also meant shes been forced to distance herself from 
family members. Mrs B told us about the fear she experienced when she realised he 
may have her address. Shed informed the police of her fears for her safety, and she 
also told us about the nightmares and panic attacks brought on by her concern that 
her ex-husband might now know where she lives.
Ive considered this case carefully, and given the impact this has had on Mrs B, I 
dont think that the payment Barclays has already made is the right amount to 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I think that Barclays should 
pay Mrs B a further £1,500, in addition to the £500 it has already paid.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs B replied to make further comments. Barclays confirmed that it hadnt paid the £500 it 
had previously offered, and that it would pay the total of £2,000 I proposed to award.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B replied to say she hadnt received £500 from Barclays. So we asked Barclays about 
this. 
Barclays had previously indicated to our service, when it first wrote to us about this 
complaint, that it had already paid Mrs B £500. It now says it didnt actually pay that at the 
time. I think my provisional decision was clear that Barclays should pay £2,000 in total, and 
Barclays has agreed to make that payment now. 
We told Mrs B this. And she said it had taken over 20 months for Barclays to confirm that her 
ex-husband did not access her address information. She said this had given her a great deal 
of stress which Barclays could have alleviated by providing this information much sooner. I 
think thats true. My award isnt designed to penalise Barclays for not acting sooner, as thats 
not part of the role of our service. But I have taken into account how long Mrs B has been 
worried about this, in reaching my decision, as well as how disappointed she must be now to 
find out that Barclays couldve said this rather sooner. 
Mrs B also said Barclays wrongly claimed to have paid her £500. When challenged, it 
confirmed it hadnt paid. If Barclays was wrong about that, she wanted to know how she 
could believe it when it said her ex-husband didnt access the account and view her details?
I think Barclays just made a mistake about whether money had been paid to Mrs B when it 
first wrote to us. I think that was a simple oversight. Its unfortunate, but these things do 
happen.
But Barclays has been asked by our service to double-check that Mrs Bs ex-husband didnt 
access the account while Mrs Bs address was visible. And it has provided evidence to back 
up what it said about this. So I dont think there is the same scope for a simple oversight 
here. Either Barclays has fabricated this evidence (which would be exceptionally serious, 
and I havent seen anything at all to suggest this) or Mrs Bs ex-husband didnt access the 
account in this time. 
I hope Mrs B will find some reassurance in this.
I still think Barclays should pay Mrs B £2,000, so thats what Ill now award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mrs B £2,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman