DRN-2085991
The complaint
Mr B and Ms K say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr B and Ms K took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Mr B and Ms K paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case 
either one or both of them was off work due to an accident or illness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B and Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Ms Ks case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
According to the record of the discussion, the advisor recommended PPI for Mr B and Ms K 
 and this was only a recommendation, not a requirement, which they were free to accept or 
decline. Its recorded that they accepted the recommendation. In turn, they accepted some 
other insurance, and also turned down some different insurance  so it seems Mr B and 
Ms K did know they had a choice. The mortgage offer also said that Mr B and Ms K didnt 
have to buy any insurance from Santander if they didnt want to. Ive not seen any evidence 
which shows that Mr B and Ms K were misled into having PPI, nor have I seen any wider 
problems with Santanders sales process from the time. Indeed, from what Ive seen of the 
way this policy was sold around this time, it was normally made clear that the PPI was a 
separate product to the mortgage and that customers didnt have to take it out to get the 
lending. So I think its most likely that Santander made Mr B and Ms K aware they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr B and Ms K, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr B and Ms K were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out on top of their existing benefits and savings 
and offered them more comprehensive cover. Its also worth bearing in mind that the 
mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment  there was no guarantee that Mr B or 
Ms K would have the same benefits or savings available in the many years to come. And 
ultimately, if they fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI 
couldve been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr B and Ms K about PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to 
have changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr B and Ms K chose to take out PPI, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr B and Ms K werent 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful 
for them in case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how 
much it would pay out in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr B and Ms K could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman