DRN-2233277
The complaint
Miss J complains that she was mis-sold a mortgage protection policy by Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax.
What happened
Miss J arranged a repayment mortgage in 1998 with Halifax. At the same time, a 
recommendation was made by one of its advisers to take out mortgage protection cover 
(the policy). This was a term assurance policy sold on a decreasing basis which was 
designed to pay a lump sum set initially at £25,000, in the event of Miss Js death to cover 
any outstanding borrowing at that point. The recommendation was accepted by Miss J and 
the policy started in November 1998. 
In 2019 Miss J complained to Halifax saying she was told that the policy was a compulsory 
part of the mortgage application, which she now understands it wasnt. Halifax didnt uphold 
the complaint. In brief, it said the recommendation was made based on her particular 
circumstances and was not sold on the basis of it being a compulsory part of her mortgage. 
Unhappy with the bank's response, Miss J brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show the adviser said the policy 
was a condition of Miss Js mortgage, particularly as she had the right to cancel the policy 
after the lending decision had been made. Miss J disagreed. She said the adviser was in a 
superior position in terms of knowledge, and as she was applying for a mortgage she 
"desperately" needed, she felt pressured into purchasing the policy by what she was being 
told. She maintained the adviser gave her the impression this was compulsory part of her 
application for the mortgage. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Miss J met with the Halifax adviser on three separate occasions. Its unlikely that everything 
that was discussed was recorded or retained, but theres still a significant amount of 
paperwork given how long ago the sale was. This includes the key features booklet with a 
signed declaration showing Miss J received this document on 21 October 1998. 
Notably, the key features booklet says: "You have the legal right to cancel your plan and 
that: Your right to cancel begins when you receive this notice and ends 14 days after you 
receive it. The notice referred to was sent to Miss J on 26 November 1998, which was the 
same date as the start of the mortgage and policy. The only consequence of cancellation 
noted in the key features document, was that the benefits provided by the policy would be 
lost. To my mind, this strongly suggests the policy was optional as Miss J could change her 
mind without penalty within a certain period of time, which included a period after the 
mortgage had started.
Miss J also says she felt pressured into taking out the policy. As Ive said, she met with the 
adviser on three separate occasions where she was given key information about the policy. 
The main interview dates with the adviser were 15 and 21 October 1998. Given the policy 
started at the end of November 1998, after which Miss J still had a fourteen day cancellation 
period, I think shed sufficient time to reflect on what she was told and the documents she 
was provided with. She then had the option to change her mind if she was unhappy about 
what shed been told by the adviser. Under these conditions, Im not persuaded that Miss J 
was put under pressure to take out the policy. But its still possible the policy was unsuitable 
for her needs, so Ive considered this point.
Halifax hasnt provided a copy of the reasons why report. I think its unlikely a copy was 
retained, which I dont think is unusual given how long ago the sale took place. But Miss J 
did sign to say the report had been explained to her. I can also see Halifax have provided a 
copy of the fact find to this service. This latter document says that Mortgage Planning was a 
high priority for Miss J. And that she required an additional amount to repay your 
mortgage on death". This was likely to be because the only other cover Miss J had in 
place at the time was 'death in service' benefits through her employer. 
The death in service benefits provided cover of just over £28,000, which was to be held in 
trust for her only dependent child if Miss J were to die. But its generally accepted that its 
best not to rely on the death in service benefits for mortgage cover  theres no guarantee 
that itll be retained as an employment benefit and a change of employment some years 
down the line, might lead to a loss of the cover at which point, it might be much more 
expensive to replace. All in all, looking at Miss Js circumstances at the time of the advice, 
Im satisfied the recommendation was a reasonable way to meet her particular needs and 
objectives. It follows that I think the recommendation was suitable.
Miss J says she wasnt made aware of the policys key features, exclusions or cancellation 
terms. But given she signed to say shed received relevant documents and/ or had been told 
about the policy by the adviser, I think its likely she was made aware of the main aspects of 
the policy. It was then for Miss J to decide whether she wanted to continue with the policy.
For all these reasons, I cant fairly say the policy was mis-sold to Miss J. And whilst I 
understand she will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020
. 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman