DRN-3027058
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt provide him with copies of account statements.
What happened
Mr D was involved in a court case where he needed to demonstrate the validity of money 
found in his house. To this effect, Mr D contacted TSB and requested statements covering 
the previous five years, which TSB duly provided. A short time later, Mr D contacted TSB 
again and requested statements for the preceding two years  to cover the previous seven 
years in total. TSB couldnt provide these further statements due to a system error. Mr D 
wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ds complaint. They apologised for not providing the statements as 
requested and paid compensation to Mr D totalling £125. This was in addition to an earlier 
payment of £25 that TSB had paid to Mr D for a similar complaint.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, and felt that TSB not providing him with the 
further statements had resulted in him incurring a loss resultant of the court case not being 
resolved in his favour of approximately £6,500. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that there was some confusion 
as to whether Mr D had received the statement information he required. Our investigator 
also noted that they didnt feel that it could be confirmed that the loss Mr D had incurred as a 
result of the court case would have definitely been avoided if TSB had been able to provide 
the earlier statements, so they didnt feel that it would be fair to ask TSB to reimburse Mr D 
the amount of that loss as he was wanting. 
Finally, while our investigator felt that it was the case that Mr D had been inconvenienced by 
having to chase TSB for these statements, they felt that the compensation that TSB had 
already paid to Mr D for this point did represent a fair and reasonable resolution to that 
aspect of Mr Ds complaint. Because of this, our investigator didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a certain amount of inconvenience involved with court proceedings, and Mr D has 
confirmed as such to this service, including that upon receipt of the statements that he did 
receive from TSB he had to go through each statement transaction individually to justify his 
personal finances to the court.
I can appreciate how much time and effort Mr D must have expended with regard to the 
court proceedings, but it must be recognised that such time and effort would have had to 
have been expended by Mr D regardless of the nature of his interactions with TSB and 
whether or not they were able to provide him with the further statements that he requested. 
It also must be noted that there is some confusion as to whether Mr D did receive the further 
statement information that he requested, with historical contact notes provided by TSB 
suggesting that Mr D did confirm that the court had received the requested information, 
potentially directly from TSB themselves. 
Even allowing that the further statement information wasnt received from TSB by either Mr 
D or the court, Im still not convinced that the absence of the statement information for the 
further two years that Mr D was requesting can be considered as being the direct cause of 
the court case not being found in favour of Mr D and his incurring the loss that he is seeking 
reimbursement for here. Because of this, I wont be instructing TSB to reimburse Mr D the 
approximately £6,500 as he would like.
However, I am satisfied that Mr D was inconvenienced by having to chase TSB on a number 
of occasions for the further statement information, including several telephone calls and 
visits to branch. In such circumstances, it would be expected by this service that TSB would 
have acknowledged this inconvenience when responding to Mr Ds complaint, and to have 
apologised to Mr D and made an appropriate payment of compensation to him.
I think that TSB have done that here. In their responses to Mr Ds complaint they did 
acknowledge the inconvenience and costs that hed incurred, and they did apologise to Mr D 
and make compensation payments to him totalling £150.
Matters of compensation are often subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But the £150 
that TSB have already paid to Mr D does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting, but if follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action at this time. I hope that 
Mr D will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman