DRN-3649307
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Cumbernauld South Credit Union Limited failed to credit her account
with a cash deposit.
What happened
Mrs C has explained that she asked to withdraw the majority of her funds from her account
at the start of the pandemic in March 2020. Mrs C took her passbook which recorded the
activity related to her account and asked to remove £5,000 by cheque.
A Cumbernauld director who was responsible for dealing with Mrs C saw that there was a
difference between Mrs Cs passbook and the computerised records. Mrs C was told that 2 x
£500 deposits recorded as standing orders made the previous year by another director had
been an error. Mrs C was told her account was £1,000 less than she believed.
Mrs C told Cumbernauld that she hadnt ever used a standing order and the two deposits
were made in cash. Cumbernauld explained to Mrs C that they couldnt look into the matter
because of the pandemic. Mrs C didnt hear anything from Cumbernauld and about 4-5
months later she went to their office accompanied by her representative to discuss the
matter.
Cumbernauld couldnt find any errors within their records apart from the updates to Mrs Cs
passbook which they said was a genuine error on their part. Cumbernauld declined to refund
Mrs C and she made a complaint which was again declined. It was alleged that the funds
had been stolen, which Cumbernauld denied.
Mrs C then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information.
Mrs C explained that the two deposits were the result of income from a business run by
another family member and provided copies of her passbook. Mrs C also explained that she
had poor eyesight. She was also critical of how Cumbernauld had advised her about the
complaint and referred to a previous incident involving a Cumbernauld director.
Cumbernauld provided testimony about what had happened and details of Mrs Cs account
including a computerised statement, paying in slips and cheque withdrawal requests. It was
also stated that the director who dealt with Mrs C at the time the two deposits were recorded
was no longer working with them.
After considering the complaint, our investigator upheld it and Cumbernauld provided further
information about their process. They explained that they had a system of different coloured
pens and separate duties carried out by tellers and directors. This meant that directors
wouldnt accept cash over the counter and tellers were supervised when dealing with
deposits. Entries in passbooks were in red if it was a director and those in black were by a
teller who could accept cash deposits.
After reviewing this information, our investigator changed his outcome and didnt uphold the
complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the outcome and believed that shed deposited funds which
hadnt been accounted for by Cumbernauld and wanted a refund. Mrs C wasnt able to
provide any further information about the source of the funds.
The complaint has now been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
The complaint here is that funds were deposited and not dealt with properly by
Cumbernauld. They, on the other hand, believe the entries into Mrs Cs passbook were a
genuine error.
Ive examined the available records here and its apparent that two entries were made on
Mrs Cs passbook that show deposits of £500 each time. Those entries arent dated,
although Cumbernauld believe they were made at the same time Mrs C requested an earlier
cheque which was given to her in September 2019.
The passbook has a mixture of black and red inks. But I also noticed that an entry by the
Cumbernauld director uses both black and red ink. This is at odds with how Cumbernauld
have explained their system works. They also stated that directors dont deal with cash at
the counter, but its Mrs Cs case that she deposited that cash with them and the only entries
recording this are made by a director in red ink. Those entries refer to standing orders which
Mrs C doesnt use. This is confirmed when looking at her statements. Mrs C often deposits
similar amounts to those that are the subject of this complaint.
Mrs C couldnt provide any further evidence of the source of the funds. Whilst it would have
been beneficial to the situation to be able to show a more definitive trail of the source of the
deposits, thats not always possible and its also not a requirement for Mrs C to provide this
to Cumbernauld. Ive considered Mrs Cs testimony as evidence that she deposited the
funds.
Some of the evidence provided by Cumbernauld in the form of deposit slips contain various
corrections and handwritten notes. Its not particularly easy to follow the calculations  for
example a deposit made on 12/6/2019 for £500 also contains notes that update
administration fees and dividend entries but these arent added to Mrs Cs passbook until
much later. This means that totals are different depending whether the passbook is used or
the computerised records. I couldnt see any particular reason why the passbook wasnt
updated at the same time the deposit slip was completed because the relevant information
had already been recorded on the computerised records.
It appears that the same director added the administration fees and dividend whilst at the
same time entering the deposits. I found it odd the records were completed in this way and I
dont think theyre particularly persuasive when it comes to demonstrating what happened.
Cumbernauld have told our service that they check the records when account holders make
a withdrawal request. But, Mrs C had already asked for an earlier withdrawal in September
2019 when the entries for the deposits had already been made, so it was apparent at that
point that there was an issue with the records. Nothing was done at that stage and it wasnt
until Mrs C came back some months later to request the majority of her funds that
Cumbernauld raised the problem. Im not sure why the issue wasnt raised at the time as it
would have been a simpler matter to deal with as the information about what happened
would have been much fresher in everyones minds.
Cumbernauld told our service that they carried out checks on their financial records and
couldnt find any errors, but Im unsure how such records can assist when it was many
months after the event and staff had left the organisation. I accept that they would be able to
tell what funds had been deposited, but I wonder how theyd be able to confidently identify
errors related to a cash deposit.I appreciate Mrs C, through her representative, believes the loss of her funds was due to
staff involvement, but theres currently no evidence of that and as far as Im aware, no report
has yet been made to the police.
When Mrs C was first told about the problem in March 2020, Cumbernauld maintained that
they couldnt do anything because of the pandemic. Nothing happened for several months
until Mrs C got back in touch with them. Whilst I appreciate that the pandemic caused many
organisations to change the way they worked, I dont think a delay of such a long-time aided
Mrs C in dealing quickly with her reported loss.
I appreciate Cumbernauld are staffed by volunteers, but they also had a responsibility to
maintain their function when they were holding funds for account holders, including the
investigation of missing funds. Cumbernauld werent aware of how this issue was impacting
Mrs C and I havent seen any evidence that they attempted to resolve the issue prior to her
visiting the branch some months later.
Overall, Cumbernaulds records concerning the activity on Mrs Cs account show two
deposits which have been completed by a director. Mrs C only deposits cash  borne out by
the historical use of her account, so it seems to me that various records completed by
Cumbernauld are at odds with each other. Their assertion about how the passbook is
completed isnt supported by the evidence. There are dates missing from the passbook and
the completion of records at different times makes it difficult to accept that Cumbernauld
were correct when they believed a genuine error had been made when making entries to her
passbook.
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and intend to instruct Cumbernauld to refund
the £1000 deposited by Mrs C, to include interest at 8% per annum (simple interest) for the
loss of use of these funds. I also intend to instruct Cumbernauld to pay Mrs C £250 for their
handling of the issue and the delays they caused in investigating the loss of her funds.
I invited Mrs C and Cumbernauld to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. Mrs C accepted my provisional 
decision and Cumbernauld responded, saying in summary that:
Cumbernauld were shut due to the pandemic for some months and only opened 
initially for one day in July before extending their opening days.
They believe that Mrs C would have had to come in twice to make the payments and 
either didnt check her passbook or didnt make the deposits.
They stressed that Directors didnt handle cash deposits.
The delay in updating Mrs Cs passbook was due to internal processes.
The former Director couldnt add anything to the situation.
Cumbernauld feel that they are being fined three times for the complaint.
Cumbernauld still believe it was an error.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I havent seen anything that would change the outcome of my provisional 
decision and Ill explain why.
I recognise this complaint is finely balanced and Id like to thank both parties for their 
patience while Ive reviewed all the evidence provided, including the additional comments 
Ive received.
Cumbernauld thought that there would have been more evidence of the £500 deposits from 
Mrs Cs husband. Unfortunately, he was unable to directly provide any further evidence due 
to personal circumstances, so Ive accepted the testimony from Mrs C that her husband was 
the source of the funds from his employment.
Cumbernauld presented further information after I issued my provisional decision including 
their reasoning behind the delay in investigating Mrs C missing funds. Whilst its clear that 
Cumbernauld could do nothing further about the issue during the lockdown, they were still 
operating some weeks prior to Mrs Cs visit. Im still of the opinion that Cumbernauld had an 
obligation to investigate the matter as a priority, but that didnt happen here. The evidence is 
that Cumbernauld waited for Mrs C to come back to them  but I think it was Cumbernaulds 
responsibility to carry out their investigation and contact Mrs C about it.
Cumbernauld believe that the entries into the passbook were likely made over two visits, 
which is evidence that Mrs Cs deposits would have been noticed by her because she should 
have checked her passbook. Mrs C has also been able to confirm the deposits were made 
on two separate visits as well, although due to the time thats passed, she can no longer 
remember when she made them.
When Ive examined the passbook, the entries appear to be by the same person. Because 
dates are missing in the appropriate date column, its difficult to be definitive. Mrs C has also 
commented that her eyesight isnt as good as it was, so this may have added to her lack of 
notice at the time about the Standing Order entries. 
What is apparent is that both Cumbernauld and Mrs C believe that the entries were made on 
two different visits. It would be reasonable to assume that Mrs C would only make a visit if 
she had something that required Cumbernaulds attention. It doesnt seem likely that Mrs C 
would visit Cumbernauld on two occasions just to have her account updated with 
administrative entries. More likely it was because she was depositing cash as she has 
testified. Whilst I could accept that an administrative mistake was made during one visit, for 
the same error to be made on two different visits just doesnt seem likely.
Cumbernauld stressed that Directors dont handle cash, and whilst I accept thats their 
policy, the evidence from Mrs C is that she deposited two amounts of £500 cash. Theres an  
entry completed in both red and black ink, so its difficult to accept that Cumbernaulds 
systems were operating in the way they described, although I recognise that corresponding 
paperwork usually competed by cashiers wasnt found by Cumbernauld. 
When the passbook was completed by the Director, there were two entries of £500 for 
Standing Orders. Ive thought whether this could have been an error by the Director who 
mixed up the passbooks or mistook who they were dealing with. But, in such cases, I would 
expect to see a corresponding account that was missing these entries. To date I havent 
seen any evidence of this.  
Cumbernauld detailed their internal processes that caused some delays in updating the 
records between the computerised systems and their members passbooks, including their 
annual audit. I accept that there will be some delays, especially considering the nature of 
Credit Unions. But, the delay in completing all their various records including Mrs Cs passbook, the delay in the investigation into the matter until 2020 have contributed to the 
lack of clarity over what happened at the time.
I do recognise the voluntary nature that Cumbernauld operates under, and this no doubt 
created more difficulties for them during the pandemic. But, they also have a responsibility to 
their members, and the record keeping and delays in dealing with Mrs Cs claim hasnt led to 
fair treatment for her here.
Putting things right
Cumbernauld felt that the redress I laid out in the provisional decision was punishing them 
by fining them three times. So, I thought it appropriate to clarify that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt punish or fine businesses. Our role is to determine complaints 
from eligible complainants about their individual concerns.
So, the three parts to the redress are to repay the £1,000 deposited by Mrs C - to put her 
back in the position she would have been prior to the error, then to add 8% simple interest 
which is the same figure used by civil courts in their judgements. This is to recognise the 
lack of use of the funds available to Mrs C for the time she was without them. I would clarify 
that the 8% figure is only from March 2020 to the point its repaid. The final aspect is to 
recognise the impact this had on her and I think a payment of £250 is appropriate here. 
Cumbernauld could have done more to investigate the matter sooner; the delay has made 
investigating the issue far more difficult that it could have been and continued to have a 
detrimental impact on Mrs C.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint and Cumbernauld South Credit Union Limited 
are instructed to settle it as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman