DRN-1558941
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Vitality Health Limiteds administration of his private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L held a private medical insurance policy with Vitality.
On 30 April 2019, the day before his policy was due to renew, Mr L contacted Vitality and 
asked for the policy to be cancelled. Vitality agreed to action the request. It cancelled the 
policy and the direct debit which was used to pay the monthly premium.
Later that day, Mr L called Vitality again and said that he intended to continue with the policy 
after all. Vitality agreed to reinstate the policy. However, due to an administrative oversight, it 
failed to reinstate the direct debit.
In August 2019, Vitality noted that the premiums for the policy hadnt been paid. It rang Mr L 
to advise him of this. It agreed to call him the next day to obtain his bank details so that it 
could collect the outstanding payments.
Vitality tried to call Mr L the next day but was unable to get through. It made further efforts to 
contact him during August and September by telephone and email but was unsuccessful in 
getting to speak to him.
In October 2019, having received no premiums for the past five months, Vitality wrote to 
Mr L to inform him that the policy had been cancelled with effect from 30 April 2019.
Mr L complained to Vitality about its action. He said it hadnt been his fault that the payments 
had stopped being taken. He wanted Vitality to reinstate his policy without the need for him 
to pay the arrears.
Vitality issued a final response letter offering to reinstate the policy and to write off two 
months of premiums, amounting to a total of £113. It also offered to draw up a payment plan 
so that Mr L didnt have to pay off the other outstanding premiums all at once.
Mr L didnt accept Vitalitys offer. He referred his complaint to us.
In January 2020, our investigator issued a view recommending that the complaint should be 
upheld. She considered that Vitality should have realised there was a problem with the direct 
debit payments and contacted Mr L sooner rather than wait until August 2019 to do this. 
However, she considered that, even if he hadnt known before, Mr L was aware from the 
date Vitality made contact with him that there was an issue over his payments. In view of 
this, she considered that Vitality should offer to reinstate the policy and write off four months 
of premiums, rather than just two. However, the reinstatement would be subject to Mr L 
agreeing to pay outstanding premiums from 1 September 2019 as he was by then aware of 
the problem over the payments.
Vitality agreed to the investigators findings but Mr L did not. He questioned the value of 
paying the backdated premiums given the policy had only a few months still to run before the 
next renewal. He expressed concern that Vitality might seek to increase the premium at 
renewal to recoup the premiums it had written off. He questioned whether Vitality would have 
been prepared to provide cover for him if hed needed to claim since April 2019.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that Vitality was at fault for the fact that payments stopped being taken for the 
policy. Mr L should arguably have become aware from his bank statements that he was not 
paying for the policy but I nonetheless consider the onus was on Vitality to identify the 
problem and make Mr L aware of it.
Vitality eventually did this but not until nearly three and a half months later. I consider it 
should have noticed the problem and contacted Mr L sooner than this. I therefore agree with 
the investigator that its offer to waive two months of premiums was insufficient. I consider it 
is fairer for it to have waived four months of premiums. This would mean that Mr L wasnt 
required to pay backdated premiums covering the period when he was apparently unaware 
of the problem given that the error in collecting the premiums wasnt his fault.
However, once Vitality had contacted Mr L in August 2019, he was fully aware that he had 
not been paying premiums for the policy. I therefore consider he should be expected to pay 
all outstanding premiums from 1 September 2019 onwards. I can see no reasonable 
grounds for saying Vitality needs to waive these.
Mr L considered it wasnt worth him doing this given the time the policy had to run before its 
next renewal. In the end, it is up to him to decide whether to pay the backdated premiums 
but he cant expect Vitality to reinstate the policy otherwise.
Mr L has questioned the premium he would have to pay if the policy were to renew in May 
2020. That date has now passed so Mr L should be able to get the information from Vitality if 
he wishes. I have no reasonable grounds for supposing it will artificially increase the 
proposed renewal price to recoup the premiums it has agreed to write off.
Mr L has questioned whether Vitality would have been prepared to provide cover if hed 
needed to make a claim since April 2019. Again, I have no reasonable grounds for 
supposing that it would have refused to provide cover in the event that Mr L had an eligible 
claim, though clearly any provision of cover would be conditional on Mr L agreeing to bring 
his premium payments up to date.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require  
Vitality Health Limited to offer to reinstate Mr Ls policy subject to Mr L agreeing to pay 
outstanding premiums from 1 September 2019. If Mr L wishes to reinstate the policy, Vitality 
should offer a payment plan to allow him a reasonable time to bring his premium payments 
up to date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020. David Poley
Ombudsman