DRN-2910478
The complaint
Mr F complains that in April 2020, Standard Life Assurance Limited obstructed and did not 
honor the transfer of his pension fund invested in the Standard Life Property Pension Fund after he 
instructed it to transfer it to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says this led to significant 
delay, distress and financial loss.
Mr F further complains that Standard Life failed to inform him until after he made his transfer 
request, through the SIPP provider, that its property fund was suspended and that it did not act 
fairly, reasonably and was negligent in its actions, 
What happened
Mr F started his Standard Life Pension Plan in 2007. His plan was 100% invested in the Standard 
Life Pension Property Fund (property fund). In April 2020 his plan was worth around £25,000. 
On 18 March 2020, Standard Life took a decision to suspend its property fund.
On 24 April 2020, Mr F phoned Standard Life because he wanted to transfer the money in his plan 
into a SIPP with another provider. He asked whether there were any charges for making the transfer 
and what documentation would need to be completed to enable the transfer to go ahead. He was 
told that the amount transferred would be the value of the fund on the day of transfer and that there 
would be no charges for making the transfer. He was told that his SIPP provider could contact 
Standard Life to arrange an electronic transfer. 
Standard Life did not tell Mr F during this phone call that the property fund was currently suspended 
and how this would impact on his transfer request. 
Following on from the call, Mr Fs intended new SIPP provider contacted Standard Life to arrange 
the transfer. The SIPP provider was told by Standard Life that the property fund was currently 
suspended. The SIPP provider passed on this information to Mr F.
Around 29 April 2020, Standard Life sent out some plan documentation to Mr F. There was no 
mention in that documentation of the property fund being suspended at that time.
Between the 29 April 2020 and 30 April 2020 six calls were made between Mr F and call handlers at 
Standard Life. In summary, Mr F wanted to know why Standard Life was obstructing his transfer and 
he wanted to be provided with details and evidence showing why the property fund was suspended. 
He expressed concern about the lawfulness of Standard Lifes actions. He also wanted to know why 
he had not been informed of this during his call on 24 April 2020. He complained about the general 
lack of communication about the suspension.
On 1 May 2020, Mr F received a written communication from Standard Life confirming that 
the property fund had been suspended from 18 March 2020. He replied on 5 May 2020 
asking for documentary evidence of this suspension and any others that may have been 
applied since 2007 (when his plan commenced). 
On 11 May 2020, Mr F complained to Standard Life about it obstructing his pension 
transfer and the lack of information around it suspending transfers from its property fund.
Standard Life responded in June 2020. It accepted that Standard Lifes service levels and 
communication around the suspension of the property fund had fallen short of what should have 
been provided. It upheld Mr Fs complaint regarding the shortcomings in its communications. It 
offered Mr F £250 by way of compensation. It did not uphold his complaint regarding suspending 
transfers out of the property fund. It explained why it considered it was justified in taking that 
action, at that time. 
Mr F didnt accept Standard Lifes resolution of his complaint and referred his complaint to our service 
in June 2020. 
Mr F says he finally managed to transfer his fund to another provider in September 2020.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint. He concluded, in summary, that Standard Lifes 
response was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He considered that Standard Life had made 
a fair and reasonable offer to redress the communication shortcomings. He further concluded that 
Standard Life had not acted unreasonably when it decided to suspend the property fund. In those 
circumstances, our investigator concluded, it had not acted in an unfair, unreasonable or neglectful 
way by not immediately actioning his transfer request in April 2020.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said, in summary:
Hed asked whether the fund could be moved with no exit penalties, charges or restrictions 
and Standard Life confirmed that.
The investigator had unfairly made reference to the call handler not explaining that the 
property fund had been suspended during the first call. This was irrelevant, because this 
issue was not presented during that call. It was also wrong to refer to a call handler, he 
talked to Standard Life employees, including senior staff.
The written communication of 1 May 2020 was not satisfactory or transparent.
The basis of his complaint had been misunderstood. His complaint did not hinge on the 
suspension of the fund. The primary issue was Standard Lifes refusal to transfer the fund, 
when instructed to do so. Standard Life was negligent in not carrying out his instructions 
when it said there were no restrictions. Standard Life also acted dishonestly and gave false 
advice. His complaint is that Standard did not honor the request to transfer  and did not 
communicate this to Mr F and didnt tell him when or if the funds could then be transferred. 
As a result, he suffered significant delay, distress & financial loss as a result of this 
negligence.
When he inspected his account online, there was also no correspondence to state that there 
was any suspension or restriction on his account. 
Mr F disagrees with our investigators view that there are two issues to be decided here - firstly, 
whether Standard Life acted fairly and reasonably when it decided to suspend its property fund in 
March 2020 and secondly whether it communicated this decision appropriately to Mr F.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Fs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F asks me to consider this from the standpoint that Standard Life obstructed and didnt honor his 
transfer request. Whether I look at it this way, or ask myself the two questions the investigator asked 
himself  that is did Standard Life act fairly and reasonably when it decided to suspend the property 
fund and whether it communicated this decision appropriately to Mr F, essentially, I reach the same 
conclusion about how this complaint should be decided. Ill explain why.
Suspension of the Property FundIve looked at the Terms and Conditions of the plan Mr F had with Standard Life. Standard Life 
was permitted to suspend funds in some circumstances. Ive also taken into account that in 
March 2020, the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) introduced material uncertainty 
clauses into its independent valuations. I understand this led to some providers suspending their 
property funds due to uncertainties around managing and valuing fund assets. 
Ive also seen the note published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 18 March 2020 
about property fund suspensions. It said: -
The FCA understands that certain Standing Independent Valuers have determined that there is 
material uncertainty over the value of commercial real estate (CRE).
In such situations, a fair and reasonable valuation of CRE funds cannot be established. As a result, 
some managers of open-ended CRE funds have temporarily suspended dealing in units of these 
funds and others are likely to follow for the same reason.
Suspensions can be used by managers of open-ended funds, in line with their obligation 
sunder the applicable regulations. In these circumstances, suspension is likely to be in the 
best interests of fund investors
Taking all these factors into consideration, and the unprecedented circumstances of the 
worldwide pandemic unfolding at that time, I do not consider that Standard Life acted unfairly, 
unreasonably or neglectfully when it took the decision to suspend its property fund on 18 
March 2020. I agree with our investigator, that the suspension was allowed under the terms 
and conditions of the plan and that Standard Life had to balance the general interests of all 
plan members.
So, I dont think Standard Life did anything wrong by not honoring, as Mr F puts it, his transfer 
application made in April 2020, after this suspension was put in place. Standard Life was 
entitled in these unusual circumstances to delay the transfer irrespective of whether there was 
a communication failure or not. So, I cant fairly find that Mr F has lost out financially as a 
result of not being able to access other investment opportunities at that time
Initial communication shortcomings 
I have listened to all the phone calls between Mr F and Standard Life. During the first phone call 
on 24 April 2020, Mr F asked Standard Life whether any charges would be applied to a transfer. 
He also asked about the paperwork that needed to be completed to facilitate the transfer to the 
SIPP. Mr F says he specifically asked about whether any restrictions applied. I didnt hear that 
specific question. But, given what Mr F told the call handler about wanting to transfer to the SIPP, I 
dont think this matters. Had there have been any current restrictions, I think Mr F couldve 
reasonably expected to have been told about these. For the avoidance of any doubt, even if Mr F 
specifically asked this question, my view wouldnt be any different. Further, even if the call handler 
had given him a (wrong) answer to his direct question about there not being any restrictions in 
place, it wouldnt have made Mr F any more entitled to an immediate transfer and so would not 
have changed my decision. At that point in time the property fund had, in my view, been 
legitimately suspended and so Mr F wasnt entitled to an immediate transfer. Had Standard Life 
allowed this, potentially it wouldve been treating him preferentially when compared to other 
members.
So, I think our investigator properly considered whether the call handler told Mr F about the 
suspension during the 24 April 2020 phone call  this was the essence of the miscommunication. 
Again, to be clear, the reference to call handler used in this decision and the investigators, is 
used simply to refer to the other person on the end of the phone at Standard Life. No inference is 
intended to be drawn about the status of the person on the other end of the call, in terms of their 
seniority or role or to indicate they were not a Standard Life employee.
Standard Life accepts that it shouldve made the position clear about the property fund being 
suspended during this first phone call. I agree, had it done so, its possible Mr Fs expectations 
wouldve been better managed, at least in the short term. Standard Life also accepts that it shouldve made the position clear in the plan documentation sent him some days later, around 29 
April 2020. I also agree about that.
So, its not in dispute that Standard Life couldve communicated with Mr F more clearly on these 
two occasions and that Standard Life did do something wrong.
Communications from 29 April 2020 onwards
I have gone on to consider whether Standard Life could have communicated more effectively with 
Mr F in the six phone calls on 29 and 30 April 2020 and afterwards. I have listened to these calls 
very carefully and considered the correspondence Mr F was later sent.
Standard Life did tell him the fund had been suspended during these calls. It also told him that 
other property fund managers were behaving in the same way. It gave him the date of suspension 
and informed him about the information available on the portal about the suspension. The 
explanation the call handler gave him about where the information was on the portal, should, in my 
view have enabled him to see it. It told him something about its new working conditions caused by 
the pandemic and how this was impacting on how it was dealing with customer enquiries. It said 
that his concerns would need to be raised with other departments and other individuals, so 
immediate responses werent going to be possible.
I understand Mr F wasnt sent written confirmation of the suspension until 1 May 2020. I think this 
was unhelpful, given that the decision to suspend the fund was taken back in March 2020 and that 
Mr F was one of those directly affected as he proposed to transfer. I think Standard Life couldve 
done more to explain the situation generally in writing to individuals sooner, though I note it did put 
some information on its website. I do however consider that the flyer (as Mr F refers to it) 
contained sufficient information to clarify the position on suspension.
During the six phone calls, Mr F voiced his concerns about the obstacles created by Standard Life 
preventing him from transferring. As Ive said, I dont think that Standard Life acted unreasonably 
or unfairly imposing the suspension it did, given the wider circumstances prevailing at the time. 
Mr F made detailed enquiry of Standard Life as to why he was not being allowed to transfer and 
when told it was because the property fund was suspended, he was insistent about being provided 
with documentary evidence about when the decision was taken, by whom, the background to it, 
whether the fund was still trading, when the suspension would end and how it was communicated 
and the fairness of it. Whilst I can see why Mr F wanted this information, and that he wanted the 
transfer to be made urgently so was understandably frustrated that his instructions were not being 
carried out, having listened to the phone calls, the urgency within which he expected Standard Life 
to respond (immediately or same day) and the manner in which the calls were conducted (lots of 
talking over call handlers), I consider significantly contributed to the length of the calls, the number 
of the calls and the overall amount of frustration that Mr F likely felt at the end of them. I note 
Standard Life provided him individually with written confirmation of the suspension within two days 
of these phone calls. having not done so earlier. I think following these later phone calls, Standard 
Life took steps to rectify its earlier communication shortcomings in a timely way.
I have seen no evidence of Standard Life acting dishonestly or providing Mr F with any advice, 
false or otherwise.
Mr F doesnt consider that Standard Lifes offer of £250 compensation is adequate for the trouble 
and upset he has been caused. He has referred me to an extract about awards made by the 
Pensions Ombudsman. For the sake of clarity this is a different ombudsman service, although the 
approach to making awards is not dissimilar. Looked at as a whole, I share our investigators view 
that £250 if a fair and reasonable award for the initial shortcomings in Standard Lifes 
communications here and one that is in line with other awards made by this service.
As, I have said above, I dont think that Standard Life did anything wrong when it did not honor his 
instructions to transfer. I say this because reasonably and fairly, at that point in time the fund Mr F 
wanted to transfer from was suspended.My final decision
Standard Life Assurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr F £250 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Standard Life 
should pay Mr F £250 for his distress and inconvenience, if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman