DRN-3053688
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) avoided his business 
(N) Commercial Insurance policy and refused to pay his claim following a break-in and theft 
of his equipment. Mr L had commercial insurance for N, and his agent, who Ill call Mr A, 
dealt with the policy and claim on his behalf.
 
What happened
Mr L took out a Commercial Insurance policy with ERGO through a broker. He made a claim 
under the policy after a break-in at his business premises caused him a loss of £80,000 in 
equipment, materials and damage. ERGO said Mr L hadnt disclosed material facts on the 
policy proposal form when he answered the question about whether hed been a director of a 
liquidated company. It considered this to be a qualifying careless misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid the policy from inception, decline the claim, and refund the premium to Mr 
L.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the complaint should not be 
upheld. He thought it was reasonable that ERGO classed the non-disclosure of material 
facts as a qualifying careless misrepresentation. Our investigator said ERGO was entitled to 
avoid Mr Ls policy and decline the claim, and he agreed that ERGO should return the 
premium. 
On behalf of Mr L, Mr A didnt agree and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said 
that, while they accepted the proposal form had been incorrectly completed, ERGOs 
decision to avoid the policy was unfair. Mr A explained that ERGO originally said it wouldnt 
have offered the policy if it had been aware of the liquidation and over £100,000 of debt. 
However, he provided evidence to show that Mr Ls business debt was under £20,000 at the 
time of policy inception. So, Mr A said ERGOs position of avoiding the policy due to debts of 
£100,000 wasnt valid.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr L will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). The Act sets out that the 
customer has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a 
policy. This means they must disclose: 
everything they know, or ought to know, that might influence the insurers decision 
about whether to offer insurance and on what terms; or 
enough information to make the insurer aware that it needs to make further enquiries 
about possible material circumstances. 
If Mr L didnt make a fair presentation of the risk, but ERGO wouldve offered the policy on 
the same terms anyway, then there wont have been a qualifying breach under the Act and 
theres no remedy.
If ERGO wouldve done something different, its a qualifying breach and the Act sets out the 
remedy available depending on whether the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Here, ERGO thinks Mr L failed to disclose material facts on the proposal form when he 
answered no to the question, Have [you] Been a director of a company  that went into 
liquidation, administration, or was subject to an insolvency process or scheme of 
arrangement with creditors?.
Ive looked at the signed proposal form. I dont think theres any ambiguity with this question 
and Mr L wouldve known the correct answer was yes. That isnt disputed - Mr L confirmed 
he was a director of a previous company which liquidated. Knowing the answer shouldve 
been yes means he should also have provided ERGO with additional information. Thats 
because, following on from this question, the proposal form says, If you have answered Yes 
to any questionplease provide full information in the Additional Information box. I think 
that can reasonably be interpreted as meaning it wouldve looked further into the risk his 
business presented.
Based on the information on the proposal form and Mr Ls confirmation, Im satisfied that 
ERGO reasonably concluded he misrepresented the risk when he took out the policy.
ERGO said it wouldnt have offered cover if Mr L had disclosed he was previously a director 
of a liquidated company. Ive looked at its underwriting criteria, some of which it has also 
shared with Mr L, and listened to its explanation of the terms stated within it. The evidence 
shows ERGO wouldve either declined to offer cover or investigated further before deciding 
whether to offer cover, dependent on the level of debt. 
Its here that Mr A says ERGO treated Mr L unfairly. He says ERGO avoided the policy 
because Mr Ls liquidated business had debts over £100,000, which fell outside its 
acceptance criteria. But Mr A provided evidence to show that the debts were significantly 
reduced when the policy started. Looking at ERGOs reason for saying it wouldve declined 
cover, it said:
our Underwritersconfirmed that they would have made further inquiries had they known 
about the liquidation prior to inception and having reviewed theaccounts [they] present a 
financial position that would not support acceptance of the risk when combined with the 
insolvency. 
This is in line with the underwriting criteria provided as evidence for my consideration. ERGO 
also explained that its criteria assessment is not based on the debt at the time of policy 
inception; rather it is based on the total debt built up during the time leading to liquidation. 
So, having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that ERGO wouldnt have offered a policy 
to Mr L if hed disclosed information about his liquidated business. That means his 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
ERGO treated Mr Ls misrepresentation as careless because it accepted his explanation that 
it was an oversight when he answered the question incorrectly. This is the most favourable 
outcome for Mr L, so Im satisfied that the classification is fair.Under the Act, the remedy available to ERGO for careless misrepresentation is to avoid the 
policy and decline the claim, but it should refund to Mr L any premiums paid. ERGO has 
already confirmed it will refund the premiums, so Im satisfied that it has treated Mr L fairly, 
for the reasons given, and in line with the Act. I see no reason to make any requirement of 
ERGO in respect of Mr Ls complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman