DRN-4365685
The complaint
Mr W has complained Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money, wont refund £183.68 
for disputed card transactions.
What happened
Mr W noticed transactions he didnt recognise as his in April 2023. Mr W contacted Virgin 
Money. They issued Mr W with a new debit card but wouldnt refund the money as they 
could see these transactions were made on the same device that previous card transactions 
had been made.
A month later Mr W contacted Virgin Money again. Further transactions had been made 
using his new card details. Mr W complained to Virgin Money that hed not made these 
transactions. Virgin Money investigated but wouldnt refund Mr W.
Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She noted the evidence confirming that Mr Ws 
device had been used to make the card transactions with two different debit cards. She felt 
there was no other option but to conclude that Mr W authorised these transactions.
Still unhappy, Mr W has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. Mr W has been 
unable to provide any further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ws complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Virgin Money provided as well as 
what Mr W has told us. 
I dont believe these transactions were carried out by anyone else. I say this because:
Virgin Moneys evidence indicates that these transactions were all made on the same 
device  Mr Ws tablet  that had been used for earlier non-disputed card 
transactions.
Mr W held two different cards with separate 16-digit numbers during the period of the 
disputed transactions. Someone else would have had to have known this, locate both 
cards as well as use Mr Ws tablet. I think this scenario is unlikely.
Mr W has confirmed that he occasionally uses gaming websites, but I accept he has 
denied using these sites. Both websites related to these transactions are gaming 
related. I can see initial transactions to both websites on 15 March 2023 which Mr W 
didnt dispute for £3. I think its likely Mr W may well have accessed these sites and 
signed up to a recurring transaction. He may not have intended to do so. But as this 
was also done after Mr W received his replacement debit card with its new 16-digit 
number, I think its most likely Mr W authorised these transactions.
Overall Im satisfied theres sufficient evidence to show Mr W authorised these transactions. 
I wont be asking Virgin Money to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ws complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman