DRN-3058996
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that U K Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs D are represented by Ms D.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs D booked and paid for a villa holiday for themselves and several 
members of their family in a country Ill call S. The villa accommodation was booked 
between 28 March and 25 April 2020.
However, as a result of Covid-19, on 14 March 2020, S government placed the country into 
strict lockdown. And on 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but essential 
travel to S. On 19 March 2020, the villa provider cancelled Mr and Mrs Ds booking. So Mr 
and Mrs D made a claim on their travel insurance policy with UKI (after trying to recover the 
money from other sources).
UKI turned down the claim. It said that Mr and Mrs D hadnt shown that their accommodation 
costs were irrecoverable and it suggested that they should seek a refund from the villa 
provider. It acknowledged itd provided Mr and Mrs D with poor service while it was looking 
into their claim though, so it paid them £100 compensation to recognise the impact this had 
had on them.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with UKIs decision and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
The villa provider got in touch with Mr and Mrs D in early August 2020. It said it couldnt offer 
them a full refund of their costs. But it did offer Mr and Mrs D a credit for the full value of their 
booking for the same villa during the remainder of 2020 and 2021 or a voucher for 75% of 
the booking amount, which could be put towards any exclusive villa and would be valid until 
the end of 2022. The email mentioned that the villa provider was a member of an industry 
scheme and provided details of it to Mr and Mrs D.
Our investigator initially didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Mr and Mrs 
D should first approach the industry body so that it could assess whether the villa providers 
offer was fair. That body told Mr and Mrs D that it couldnt help with their dispute. 
So our investigator ultimately recommended that Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be partly 
upheld. She felt that as the villa provider had shown it would only offer a voucher for 75% of 
the booking costs which could be put towards a flexible future booking; she considered that 
Mr and Mrs D had demonstrated that 25% of their booking costs were irrecoverable. She 
noted that Mr D had told us that Mrs Ds mental health would prevent her from travelling and 
so they wouldnt be able to make use of the voucher before it expired. But she didnt think 
there was enough medical evidence to show that Mrs D wouldnt be fit to travel and therefore 
make use of the voucher before the end of 2022. So she felt it was fair for UKI to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs D had recovered 75% of their costs. On that basis, she recommended that 
UKI should pay Mr and Mrs D 25% of their total cancellation costs.
UKI accepted the investigators recommendations.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigator and Ive summarised their representatives 
responses:
- The industry body was confused as to why Mr and Mrs D had been referred to it;
- Given Mr and Mrs Ds age and the effect of Covid-19 on Mrs Ds mental health, they 
are nowhere close to being able to travel. It would cause them real anguish and 
anxiety;
- The villa provider hasnt provided a voucher and it isnt clear whether it would engage 
further with the matter;
- They would look to get evidence from Mrs Ds GP if we felt this was necessary, but 
they considered they were being asked to jump through ridiculous hoops;
- They felt the suggestion that Mr and Mrs D should travel in the current climate and 
make use of the voucher was an irresponsible gesture for us to support;
- They were concerned that if Mr and Mrs D did travel abroad, thered be no cover for 
Covid-19 related claims;
- The policy terms didnt state that vouchers were a form of recovery and so it wasnt 
for the investigator to make this assumption, when the holiday was paid in cash.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I think the fair outcome is for 
UKI to pay 25% of their cancellation costs. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs D and their representative that while Ive summarised 
the background to their complaint and their detailed responses to our investigator, Ive 
carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. In making my decision though, I havent 
commented on each and every point theyve raised and our rules dont require me to. 
Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the available evidence, to 
decide whether UKIs offer is fair.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with UKI. Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs D had to cancel their 
holiday as a result of the FCDO advising against all but essential travel abroad due to Covid-
19. So I think it was appropriate for UKI to consider their claim under the cancellation section 
of the policy.This section of the policy sets out the insured events UKI covers for unused costs a 
policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is the 
FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. So 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs D feel that UKI should pay their full claim for their unused 
accommodation costs.
But the cancellation section of the policy also includes a specific list of things UKI doesnt 
cover. One of these exclusions say that UKI wont cover any expenses (including Air 
Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere. Most, if not all, travel insurance 
policies contain similar term. The purpose of this term is to ensure that UKI only covers 
claims where a policyholder has suffered a demonstrable financial loss. I think the policy 
makes it clear then that UKI wont cover costs a policyholder can get back from another 
source  which may include vouchers in some circumstances.
When Mr and Mrs D first made their claim, UKIs file suggests that they didnt provide it with 
any evidence to show that theyd tried to get back their booking costs from the 
accommodation provider. So at that point, I think it was fair for UKI to have initially directed 
Mr and Mrs D to do so before agreeing to settle any part of the claim. However, during the 
course of our investigation, Mr and Mrs D were able to show both that theyd tried to recover 
their booking costs from the provider and also that an industry body had told them that it 
wouldnt be able to assist them in doing so. On that basis, UKI has now accepted that Mr 
and Mrs D have been unable to recover 25% of their cancellation costs.
So the issue I need to decide is whether it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs D 
have now been able to recover 75% of their accommodation costs from their provider.
Ive next looked at the terms of the accommodation providers offer. This says: 
If you would like to rebook Villa later this year, or for 2021 we can offer you credit towards 
this, equal to the full amount paid. Alternatively, we can offer you a voucher to the value of 
75% of the amount paid, this can be used against any exclusive villa and is valid for travel 
through to the end of 2022. 
The accommodation provider didnt provide a deadline for Mr and Mrs D to let it know if they 
were happy to accept either of these options. And so it seems to me that both options 
remain open to Mr and Mrs D to accept if they wish to do so.
Its clear the provider did offer Mr and Mrs D a credit for the full value of their booking if they 
rebooked the same villa. In some circumstances, I may well conclude that this represented a 
full recovery of their costs and that therefore, Mr and Mrs D hadnt suffered a financial loss.
However, on the specific facts of this case, UKI has now made its offer based on the second 
of the accommodation providers options and therefore agreed that Mr and Mrs D havent 
been able to recover 25% of their costs. I think this is a fair response from UKI. I say that 
because the first option is shortly due to expire and it limited Mr and Mrs D to booking the 
same villa. The second option remains valid for a further 13 months and gives Mr and Mrs D 
a broader scope of accommodation options to book from.
From all Ms D has told us, its very clear that Mrs Ds mental health has been hugely 
affected by the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Im very sorry to hear about the impact 
that Covid-19 has had on her health and I can completely understand why shes concerned 
about future travel. Ive also carefully borne in mind what Ms Ds told us about Mrs Ds 
progress and that she says shes currently a world away from being able to travel.
But I do need to be fair and reasonable to both parties. And in order for me to fairly conclude 
that Mr and Mrs D wont be in a position to use the voucher in 2022 and that UKI ought to 
refund the full costs, I think it would be reasonable for both UKI and me to see clear medical evidence that Mrs Ds health will prevent her from travelling both now and for the 
foreseeable future. 
Weve asked Ms D if Mrs D can speak to her GP to obtain such evidence. Ms D has told us 
that for a number of reasons, Mrs D doesnt feel comfortable doing so at the moment. This is 
entirely Mrs Ds choice and it certainly isnt our intention to make her feel pressured into 
speaking to a doctor or taking a holiday if she doesnt feel able to do so. I do hope she 
continues making progress towards recovery. But in the absence of such medical evidence 
showing that Mrs D wont be fit to travel, I find that its not unreasonable for UKI to conclude 
that she and Mr D may be in a position to make use of the voucher before the end of 2022. 
So taking everything into account, I think it was fair for UKI to consider that Mr and Mrs D 
havent suffered a financial loss for 75% of their booking costs in the circumstances of this 
case.
Overall, Im satisfied that UKIs agreement to pay 25% of Mr and Mrs Ds cancellation costs 
is fair and reasonable based on the evidence available to it. If Mrs D feels able to obtain GP 
evidence though which shows that she wont be fit to travel at all either now or before the 
end of 2022, or the accommodation provider rescinds its offer, its open to Mr and Mrs D to 
send this on to UKI for it to review. Id expect UKI to fairly assess any further evidence Mr 
and Mrs D might provide. And if Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with any future review of their 
claim following the provision of such evidence, they may be able to bring a new complaint to 
us about that issue alone.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that UKIs offer of settlement is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay 25% of Mr and Mrs Ds accommodation cancellation 
costs.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman