DRN-2846890
The complaint
Mr L has complained that changes made to the benefits attached to his Santander UK Plc 
123 account amount to indirect discrimination under the Equality Act 2010.
 
Background
Mr L has a 123 account with Santander. The account has a number of benefits attached to 
it including a cash back deal when account holders pay certain utility bills through the 
account. In October 2020 Santander made changes to how these benefits would be paid, 
changing the cash back available on different utilities. Mr L, who lives in Scotland, has 
complained that these changes have disproportionately impacted him as the way certain 
utilities are paid for in Scotland differs from the rest of the UK and as a result, he gets less 
benefit from his account compared to customers living in England or Wales.
Mr L has explained that the changes made in October 2020 stated that going forward 
customers with a 123 account would receive a 3% cashback on their water bills, if paid 
through their account via direct debit. Prior to that customers had only received a 1% benefit 
on their water bills. Mr L has explained that in Scotland the majority of people pay for water 
through their council tax and dont receive a separate bill. As such he says that the changes 
made to the 123 account last year are a type of indirect discrimination to all residents in 
Scotland, as theyre unable to claim the same amount of cashback on this specific utility. 
Mr L believes that as few as 0.01% of the population in Scotland have water meters in their 
homes and that the cost of fitting one far outweighs any benefit that may be derived from the 
account. However, he also believes by excluding customers in Scotland from being able to 
apply for the cashback savings, Santander is benefitting financially, as it doesnt have to pay 
Scottish customers the same level of benefits it does to customers in the rest of the UK. 
Santander has said that the decision to change the cashback benefits in the 123 account 
was a purely commercial one and is not discriminatory in nature. It says that the changes are 
in line with the accounts terms and conditions and that if customers in Scotland want to avail 
of the 3% water cashback benefit they can do so; they just need to have a water meter fitted. 
It accepts that not all customers will be able to avail of all the benefits and says it took this 
into consideration at the time the changes were made. 
It has said that when it contacted consumers to alert them of the upcoming changes to the 
account, prior to October 2020, it recommended that they review the benefits carefully and 
consider whether or not the account would still be good value for money. It expected that 
some customers would find the changes impacted them negatively and would decide to 
change their account as a result. It provided an updated benefits calculator for customers to 
use so they could decide for themselves whether or not to keep their 123 account. 
Mr L doesnt accept this and has argued that the cost of fitting a water meter in Scotland, 
which he has told us can vary in price from approximately £230 - £1,100, with a separate fee 
of just over £110 for the initial survey, makes it prohibitive for most people. And the likely 
cashback savings are relatively low value, Mr L has calculated that at most this benefit would 
only amount to £15 per year for him. So, even if he could afford to have a meter fitted, the 
costs of doing so far outweigh the overall benefit available to him. As he remained unhappy 
with the response from Santander, he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked in Mr Ls complaint already. She explained that our service is 
unable to make findings on whether or not the actions of the business could be defined as 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because it is a matter of law and is 
outside of our jurisdictional remit and can only be decided by the Courts. However, she did 
consider whether or not the changes made by Santander were fair and reasonable and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. Having done so, she was satisfied that 
Santander had followed the terms and conditions and had acted reasonably when updating 
the cashback offers attached to its 123 account. For that reason, she didnt uphold Mr Ls 
complaint and didnt ask Santander to do anymore in relation to it. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint, and so it has been passed to me for consideration.   
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to clarify for Mr L is the fact that this service is unable to make findings 
on whether or not something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is 
because we are an informal free alternative to the Courts, but only a court of law can make a 
legal finding based on the definitions set out within the act. I know Mr L will be frustrated by 
this as it is clear that he wanted a direct answer to his allegation, but unfortunately because 
its outside this services jurisdiction I am unable to provide him with such an answer. 
However, I can consider whether or not the business has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the Equality Act 
2010, into consideration. 
The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service clarify what we can and cant 
consider. Our rules are set out in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP) of the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook, which can be found on its website. 
DISP 3.6.4. states that when considering a complaint this service can consider:
Relevant law [including The Equality Act 2010];
Relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards;
Relevant codes of practice; and 
What may be considered to be good industry practice at the time
Mr L has said that the changes implemented by Santander to its 123 account amount to 
indirect discrimination under the Equality Act. While I wont be making a finding on that 
allegation (for the reasons cited above) I will consider how The Act defines indirect 
discrimination:
Section 19 of The Act states that for something to amount to indirect discrimination the 
following must take place:
(1) A person (A) [Santander] discriminates against another (B) [Mr L] if A applies to B a 
provision, criterion or practice which is discriminatory in relation to a relevant 
protected characteristic of Bs. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a provision, criterion or practice is discriminatory 
in relation to a relevant protected characteristic of Bs if 
(a) A applies, or would apply, it to persons with whom B does not share the 
characteristic 
(b) it puts, or would put, persons with whom B shares the characteristic at a 
particular disadvantage when compared with persons with whom B does not 
share it, 
(c) it puts, or would put, B at that disadvantage, and 
(d) A cannot show it to be a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim. 
(3) The relevant protected characteristics are 
age;
disability;
gender reassignment;
marriage and civil partnership;
race;
religion or belief;
sex;
sexual orientation.
In relation to Mr Ls case, he believes that being a resident of Scotland is protected under 
the Act under the definition of race. If I accept that assertion to be true, it seems to me that 
the test set out in the Act, and what would likely be considered by the Courts, is whether or 
not the changes made to the 123 account, were made to achieve a legitimate aim for 
Santander, and that any changes made were proportionate to that aim.
In order to establish whether or not the changes made were proportionate and linked to a 
legitimate aim, its first important to clarify what that aim was. Santander has explained that 
due to an ever-changing economic climate it was necessary for the bank to review 123 
accounts benefits as the ongoing cost of the cashback element was becoming increasingly 
expensive for the bank to maintain. Ensuring services and products offered by the bank are 
commercially viable is a reasonable thing for it to consider and so I asked Santander to 
share commercially sensitive information outlining why it decided to make the specific, 
disputed, changes to the account and what sort of things were taken into consideration 
during its discussions on the proposed changes. 
Having looked at the information provided by Santander I can see that it considered a 
number of different options and how they might impact 123 account holders. And, based on 
the information provided, it seems as though the changes implemented in October 2020 
allowed the greatest percentage of customers with 123 accounts to continue to earn the 
highest amount of savings through the cash back offers than the alternative changes 
considered wouldve. 
Therefore, while I cant make a finding on the matter in the way Mr L wants me to, it seems 
to me that Santander did think about the changes in depth, took the various different 
impacts, both negative and positive into consideration, and ultimately made the changes it 
did because they would produce the best outcome for the majority of account holders across 
the UK while allowing the bank to reduce the overall cost of providing the linked benefits. So 
I dont think Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it decided on which 
changes to make and why. Mr L has told us he accepts the bank could make changes to the account as per its terms 
and conditions. And I know he believes that the changes made were fundamentally unfair. 
However not all customers would be able to access all benefits available across the 123 
account in any given scenario. And as I mentioned above it appears the changes were 
necessary, proportionate and reasonable. 
Looking at how Santander explained the changes to its customers I am satisfied that it 
followed the terms and conditions of the account, contacted all customers within a 
reasonable time to make them aware of the upcoming changes, and advised them to 
recheck their individual benefits using the new calculator to ensure that the account was still 
suitable for them. In doing so it gave customers the time and opportunity to change their 
account if they felt the 123 account was no longer suitable for them. And ultimately 
businesses dont have to provide these sorts of savings to customers, it is a discretionary 
benefit and thus can be changed. It is of course important that the changes are clearly 
explained to customers, and in a reasonable time frame, but as Ive said above, Santander 
did this. 
So, having taken everything Mr L has told us into consideration, along with everything 
Santander has told us, Im unable to find that Santander has acted unreasonably when it 
changed the benefits attached to the 123 account. And because I dont think it acted 
unreasonably, I am unable to uphold Mr Ls complaint or ask Santander to do any more in 
relation to it.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Santander UK Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman