DRN-2792719
The complaint
This is a complaint that Mrs S, and the late Mrs and Mr P, were mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI). Bank of Scotland plc didnt actually sell the PPI, but its now become 
responsible for what happened. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 30 years ago and, not surprisingly, few of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago. This means it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the 
evidence when considering the case. 
Mrs S says she was not aware that the PPI had been set up, until discovering recently that 
payments had been made. She cant recall any specific discussion about the policy, or any 
paperwork being issued about it. She says the PPI was totally unnecessary. 
The overall problem is that I dont have strong-enough evidence to show that the PPI was 
set up without the agreement of Mrs S and the late Mrs and Mr P. As a general principle of 
fairness, where someone has said another person (or organisation) has done something 
wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be 
fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a 
long time ago. 
The only evidence I do have slightly supports the Bank of Scotlands position. This is the 
mortgage application form, which had a section for the customer to tick if they wanted a 
quote for PPI. This is ticked on the form in which Mrs S and the late Mrs and Mr P applied for 
the mortgage. 
This isnt compelling evidence that the PPI was ultimately agreed to. But it does suggest that 
there was a process where PPI would need to be applied for by customers, before it could 
be set up. 
But, as I say, overall I dont have strong evidence to show the PPI was mis-sold in the way 
Mrs S now believes. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended the PPI to Mrs S and the late Mrs and Mr P, 
and this means we would judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure 
the PPI was suitable for their particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs S and the 
late Mrs and Mr Ps situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs S (the person covered by the PPI) was eligible for the policy, so would 
have been entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs S received any employer 
sick pay. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy 
pay. And it would have put off the time when Mrs S, and the late Mrs and Mr P, would 
have needed to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for 
paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mrs S and the 
late Mrs and Mr P in a more secure position, if theyd eventually faced difficulty 
paying the mortgage due to Mrs Ss long-term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs S and the late Mrs and Mr P couldnt 
afford the PPI when it started; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then, in usual circumstances, be up to Mrs S and the late Mrs and Mr P to 
decide whether they wanted to accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI 
(although I accept that Mrs S doesnt believe she was told about PPI or agreed to it). Even if 
no claim was ever in fact made, this doesnt mean that, at the time, it wouldnt have been 
potentially useful and have given peace of mind. 
Its hard now to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
made a difference to whether or not Mrs S and the late Mrs and Mr P took the PPI. I say this 
because, in their circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
So Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold. But Bank of Scotland will pay back some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S and the late Mrs and Mr P because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S and the late Mrs and Mr P about that. 
Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mrs S and the estates late Mrs and Mr P, that 
was unfair. To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Mrs S says that Bank of Scotland has said the PPI ended in 1994. Ive looked at Bank of 
Scotlands offer letter, and I dont read it that way. Instead Bank of Scotland is saying that 
the commission level was over 50% until 1994  and so this is the period for which it has to 
pay back some of the commission. If Mrs S wants further clarification, she should ask Bank 
of Scotland to address this. 
Mrs S was also unhappy with how Bank of Scotland handled aspects of her complaint  in 
particular using the wrong name for her, and the way it referred to her late parents which 
caused her distress. She also says it has failed to respond to a data access request made to 
it. 
I asked the adjudicator to check whether Bank of Scotland had paid £280 compensation for 
the way it handled Mrs Ss complaint. It had been unclear whether it was still offering that 
amount. Bank of Scotland confirmed that it would still pay that amount to Mrs S  and that it 
would send her an apology for what it said in its letter to Mrs S. 
Mrs S has said she will accept this as resolution of this part of her complaint. 
Ive looked at the PPI complaint and how that was handled. If Mrs S believes Bank of 
Scotland has failed to respond properly to her data access request, she should seek the 
advice of the Information Commissioner, who has oversight of such matters. 
What the business needs to do
If hasnt yet done so Bank of Scotland should pay back to Mrs S, and the estates of the late 
Mrs and Mr P, the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit share it 
got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank of Scotland should also pay Mrs S, and the 
estates of the late Mrs and Mr P, 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments 
before April 1993).  (*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs S and the 
late Mrs and Mr P can claim back the tax if they doesnt pay tax.)
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs S and the estates of the late Mrs and Mr P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it hasnt yet done so, it now should. It should also 
pay the agreed amount of £280 in compensation for the way it handled the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and the 
estates of Mrs P and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman