DRN-2339151
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy around the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 
2000. The policy was in Mrs Ms sole name and gave her accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. 
In 2007 they took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan at the same time as they applied for 
a mortgage. They both selected life and critical illness insurance, and PPI giving them 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. This complaint looks at the sale of the PPI 
element of the plan.
Both sales took place in one of the banks branches and they paid a monthly amount for the 
cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive made my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. So, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence 
and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say Halifax used a hard sell approach, pushing the policies using scare tactics 
and what if scenarios. Halifax disputes this. I cant know what was said in either meeting, but 
I have looked at the available paperwork. 
In 2000 Mr and Mrs M indicated that they wanted PPI, signing a section on their mortgage 
application to confirm this. Mrs M then signed a separate application form for PPI, answering 
a number of eligibility questions. On this the cost was set out separately. There was nothing 
on either form that I think could reasonably have led them to believe the PPI was mandatory.
Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork from 2007 but based on what we know about the
banks sales process at the time, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs M completed a TMPP
application form selecting which elements of the cover they wanted, after discussion with the
bank. I say this as Halifax has provided samples of the documents it used when selling
TMPP at this time. I cant find enough evidence to conclude that it didnt follow its standard
sales process here. In addition, their 2007 mortgage offer made clear the PPI was optional 
saying You do not need to buy any insurance through Halifax and explaining only buildings 
insurance was mandatory.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr and Mrs Ms comments, but I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how that might impact what they recall. I dont doubt 
these are their honest recollections, but I havent been able to find enough other evidence to 
fairly conclude they were pressured into taking out PPI. Overall, I think its most likely that 
both times Halifax made it clear that the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs M chose to take it 
out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check that the PPI was
right for Mrs M in 2000 and for both parties in 2007. I know they feel very strongly that they 
did not need it as they had very secure employment and good work benefits. But based on 
what I know of their circumstances in both years I think that it was suitable. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M were both entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if they were 
sick, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits. It also gave them 
redundancy cover. This would have allowed them to protect any lump sum redundancy 
payment(s) giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Successful 
accident, sickness and unemployment claims would have paid out for up to 24 months under 
the 2000 policy and up to 12 months under the 2007 policy.
Mr and Mrs M said family would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection, its 
not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ms 
point that they had very stable employment, but insurance protects against unforeseen 
changes in circumstances, so this doesnt change my conclusion.
On both occasions Mr and Mrs M had borrowed a large sum over a long period and it was 
secured against their home. So the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have 
been serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and
Mrs M if they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s). As they were paying monthly for 
the PPI, they could have cancelled the policies at no further cost if they no longer wanted 
cover, or if their circumstances changed
As the 2000 policy only covered Mrs M and the mortgage was joint, Ive looked at whether 
the business set up the cover between them correctly. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, I cant be sure if it did. But Ive looked at the details of 
the 2000 policy  and can see that, no matter how the cover was set up, the overall cost to 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve been the same. This is because the cost of the policy is based on 
the benefit it would pay. So although the policy only covered Mrs M  which might not have 
been right in their circumstances - the cost wouldnt have changed if the benefit had been 
shared between them. 
This means that they would only be worse off if Mr M needed to make a claim. But Ive seen 
no evidence this happened. So, as they never made a claim on their 2000 policy Mr and Mrs 
M havent lost out. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs M all the information they needed before decidingto buy PPI in either year. The cost was made clear on the 2000 PPI application form and on 
the mortgage quotes they received, but I dont know when it was first made clear in 2007. 
However in both years the cover was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and 
apparently affordable. I dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt 
cover. But Mr and Mrs M dont appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions 
such as those affecting people on certain types of employment contract, or with pre-existing 
medical conditions. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their 
mind about buying the policies.
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed, but it follows I dont think they lost out because of
any problems with these sales. They also raised that they had made complaints successfully 
to another lender, but I can only comment here on the individual merits of this case.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman