DRN-3272053
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mrs P with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
payableDate repaid
Loan 
128 October 
2019£1,000 18 
months£228.56 £4,114.08 23 January 
2020
Loan 
216 June 2020 £250 18 
months£57.14 £1,028.52 22 June 2020
Loan 
32 November 
2020£250 18 
months£57.14 £1,028.52 outstanding
Mrs P is unhappy with the way interest had been calculated for Loan 3 as she repaid £200 
within a week of taking out the loan and £57.14 on 19 November 2020.
Loans 2 Go looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said checks had been properly 
carried out and it thought the loan repayments were sustainable. It explained that interest is 
front-loaded which means that all the interest which will become payable over the term of a 
loan is added at the beginning of the loan term. But it offered as a gesture of goodwill to 
write off the balance of Loan 3 and close her account, meaning that she wouldnt be liable to 
make any further payments to Loans 2 Go. It appears that Mrs P didnt accept the offer.
Mrs P referred her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold it. As Mrs P disagreed, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs P is primarily unhappy with the interest shes been charged on Loan 3. 
But Ive also looked generally at whether Loans 2 Go treated her fairly in making the loans to 
her in the first place.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs P 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs P would have been able to do so?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ps ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mrs P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint.
Loan 1
Before granting this loan, Loans 2 Go asked Mrs P about her income and expenses. Mrs P 
told it that her net monthly income was £2,980. It verified that figure using a standard 
industry tool, which looks to see whether the disclosed income is consistent with the turnover 
of the consumers bank accounts. The check came back showing it was £2,201.34. Mrs P 
also said her expenses (including her other credit commitments of £650) were £1,315 a 
month. 
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search. That showed Mrs P had opened 4 new credit 
accounts in the last 12 months, including loan accounts in April and June 2019 with balances of £7,123 and £7,922 respectively and a credit card/store card in August 2019 with a 
balance of £553. She was also paying a mortgage of £372 a month and £156 in respect of a 
hire purchase agreement. She was up to date with all her repayments.
Im not persuaded that Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate in this case. I say that 
because it calculated that Mrs Ps expenses were £1,674.68 a month. It then added a buffer 
of 10% to her verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in her monthly income or 
expenditure. That would have left her with £130.64 a month after making her new loan 
repayment to Loans 2 Go of £228.56. In addition her credit repayments (not including her 
mortgage) exceeded 35% of her monthly income. 
Bearing in mind that the loan was for 18 months, I think Loans 2 Go should have also looked 
to verify Mrs Ps expenditure to check that she would be able to meet her repayments over 
the loan term without difficulty. Weve asked Mrs P for her bank statements for the period 
just before taking out this loan but havent received these. Im not suggesting here that these 
are the checks that Loans 2 Go should necessarily have done. But I think looking at these 
might have given a good indication of Mrs Ps financial situation around the time she applied 
for this loan. As I cant say with any certainty that Loans 2 Go would have uncovered 
information showing the loan would be unaffordable for Mrs P, it would be unfair of me to 
uphold her complaint. 
Loan 2 
Mrs P changed her mind about Loan 2 almost as soon as it had been taken out. She repaid 
it and Loans 2 Go didnt charge her interest. So I dont need to consider that loan further.
Loan 3
As for Loan 1 before granting this loan, Loans 2 Go asked Mrs P about her income and 
expenses. Mrs P told it that her net monthly income was £4,000. It verified that using the 
standard industry tool. The check came back showing it was a minimum of £2,015.39. Mrs P 
also said her expenses (including her other credit commitments of £550) were £1,165 a 
month. 
Loans 2 Go calculated that Mrs Ps expenses at this point were £1,558.15 a month. It then 
added a buffer of 10% to her verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in her 
monthly income or expenditure. That would have left her with £244.29 a month after making 
her new loan repayment to Loans 2 Go of £57.14. 
Loans 2 Go also carried out another credit search. That showed Mrs P had opened 2 new 
credit accounts in the last 12 months. She was up to date with her repayments. 
Given the amount of the loan and the fact that Loans 2 Go might well also have been 
reassured by her previous payment history with it, I think the checks carried out for this loan 
were proportionate.
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. Ive taken into account what Mrs P has said about the large 
amount of interest payable on Loan 3. As Loans 2 Go explained, interest is front-loaded. 
That means unless the loan is settled in full early, the total amount repayable, as advised at 
the beginning of the loan (£1,028.52 in this case), will still be due regardless of the fact that 
larger than scheduled repayments have been made at the start of the loan. I see that Mrs P 
paid £200 towards her loan but didnt tell Loans 2 Go that she wanted to settle her account 
in full until later. So it was entitled to apply the amount she paid towards her overall loan 
balance instead of towards early settlement of her account.Loans 2 Go also explained that Mrs P could ask for an early settlement figure at any point 
during the term of the loan. The settlement figure would remain valid for 28 days. Mrs P 
might have been entitled to a rebate of interest according to a statutory formula in that case.
So Im not persuaded that Loans 2 Go treated Mrs P unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman