DRN-2540206
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC and they wanted to sell part of 
their land. Theyre unhappy that - following a valuation being carried out - Barclays said it 
would need a large capital reduction to the mortgage balance if it was to agree to the sale.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D wanted to sell part of their land. They said theyd be selling it for £30,000 and 
theyd use the proceeds to clear their arrears and pay the legal fees for the sale, and then 
use the rest to reduce the balance of their mortgage.
Barclays said it would need a new valuation of the property and land, and it obtained a quote 
from a surveyor for the cost of that. On 4 September 2019 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs D, 
saying:
To enable us to instruct the Banks approved valuers to carry out the valuation, we will 
require your written authority to confirm:
That we may instruct the valuer to carry out the valuation
That you are aware that the fee of £836.59 for the valuation relates purely to fees 
levied by the valuers and that the valuation report will be conducted on a strictly non-
disclosed basis.
Mr and Mrs D agreed to proceed and the valuation fee was paid. Mr and Mrs D say they 
borrowed the money to pay the valuation fee from the intended buyer of the land.
The valuation was undertaken and Barclays  in error  said it needed Mr and Mrs D to 
reduce their mortgage to £151,026.69 (a reduction of £610,240) for the release to go ahead. 
The figures were corrected in a follow up letter whereby Barclays confirmed the reduction 
amount needed was £151,026.69 (to take the mortgage down to a new balance of
£610,240).
Unhappy with that Mr and Mrs D complained to Barclays. An appeal was put in with the 
surveyor, but he responded - with comparable evidence and an explanation of how his 
valuation figure was reached - to say he wasnt able to amend his figure.
Our investigator said Barclays was entitled to rely on the valuation report it received, and so 
it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and so its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
Barclays doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Barclays isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or 
omission) by the surveyor or the firm he works for.
Barclays is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Barclays is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and 
having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Mr and Mrs D appealed against the valuation, and Barclays passed that appeal onto the 
surveyor. As the surveyor said he wasnt willing to amend his valuation, and gave the 
reasons why, there was nothing further Barclays needed to do. It was entitled to rely on the 
report it received from the independent professional that had been instructed.
Mr and Mrs D say the appeal shouldnt have gone back to the same surveyor, instead they 
feel it should have been an independent second opinion. But thats not how it works. The 
only person that could give a valuation figure (and therefore deal with the appeal) was the 
surveyor that visited the property. Instead, if an independent second opinion had been 
sought then that second surveyor would have needed to carry out their own survey 
(including the normal visit to the property) and Mr and Mrs D would have needed to pay the 
valuation fee again for that.
In any event it is up to Barclays whether it was willing to have a second valuation carried out 
(at Mr and Mrs Ds expense). Thats because, if a second valuation had been carried out and 
came in with the property valued for the amount Mr and Mrs D felt it was worth, why should 
Barclays consider that second valuation more valid than the first?
Mr and Mrs D may say that the first valuation was flawed, but it went through an appeals 
process and the comparable evidence simply didnt support the property being worth what 
Mr and Mrs D said.
Even if a second valuation had been carried out and it had come in at the higher amount, Im 
sure Mr and Mrs D can see why Barclays would be concerned about decreasing the amount 
of security it holds based on a valuation figure that an earlier surveyor had said was too high.
Barclays instructed a suitably qualified surveyor, it went through an appeals process, and it 
was entitled to exercise its commercial discretion to rely on the valuers professional 
independent opinion.
Mr and Mrs D say Barclays hasnt provided them with a copy of the valuation, but it doesnt have to. Mr and Mrs D agreed to that fact at the start of the process:
 the valuation report will be conducted on a strictly non-disclosed basis.
The valuation fee was spent when the surveyor visited the property. There are no grounds 
for me to order it be refunded by Barclays as that would leave Barclays out of pocket (as it 
has already passed the fee onto the surveyor) when it hasnt done anything wrong. The 
valuation was carried out which is what the fee paid for, the fact it didnt go in Mr and Mrs Ds 
favour doesnt mean the fee should be refunded.
Mr and Mrs D entered into a contract with Barclays that theyd borrow money against the 
security they put forward. Mr and Mrs D have no unilateral right to alter that contract by 
selling part of the security. If Barclays is willing to consider releasing part of the security, it is 
entitled to set out the terms upon which it is willing to agree to that. Ive reviewed Barclays 
lending policy for applications to release part of the security. We cant disclose the lending 
policy to Mr and Mrs D as it is commercially sensitive. But I can reassure them that Ive 
reviewed it against their application and Im satisfied Barclays has applied it correctly and 
fairly.
While I can appreciate that the process must have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs D, I cant 
reasonably conclude that this was the fault of Barclays.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman