DRN-3808554
The complaint
This complaint is about delays and communication issues that Mr D encountered when he 
instructed Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share Dealing (IWeb) to arrange 
an ISA* transfer from another financial business. (*Individual Savings Account)
What happened
Here is a brief overview of the events leading to this complaint, based on what Mr D and 
IWeb have said.   
8 March 2020  Mr D said he sent a letter to IWeb requesting information. IWeb said it has 
no record of this letter.
26 March 2020  IWeb has confirmed it received a cheque for the sum of £15,500 from the 
other financial business which it said it credited to Mr Ds stocks and shares ISA the same 
day.
.
30 March 2020  IWeb said it became aware on this date that the cheque it had credited to 
Mr Ds ISA account had bounced (due to poor imaging quality) so it removed the sum of 
£15,500 from Mr Ds ISA account but received no response when it emailed the other 
financial business about what happened.
31 March 2020  IWeb followed up its email with a phone call to the other financial business 
which confirmed it would issue a new cheque on receipt of written instructions - which IWeb 
said it sent the same day. 
7 April 2020 - IWeb said it received the sum of £15,500 by electronic transfer.
8 April 2020 - IWeb credited £15,500 to Mr Ds account.
12 May 2020 - IWeb arranged to send Mr D a form which he was required to use to request 
information Mr D wanted.
20 December 2020  Mr D said he sent a further letter to IWeb requesting information. 
(IWeb said it has no record of this letter.)
When Mr D contacted IWeb, it didnt uphold his complaint. So he brought his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Based on the information available, our investigator recommended upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. He said that IWeb should have ensured the image quality of the scanned cheque 
was acceptable before attempting to process it. And he felt that the period of six working 
days when Mr D had lost sight of the £15,500, taken out of his account after having just been 
paid in, was undoubtedly distressing and inconvenient for Mr D. He felt that Mr Ds attempts 
to speak to someone at IWeb were frustrated by him not being able to get through to IWeb 
on the phone  despite trying for over two hours. Our investigator also took into account that 
Mr D told us he had made multiple further attempts to obtain information about what had 
happened to his missing money which IWeb failed to respond to until sending him a form to 
complete on 12 May 2020.  
In view of these service failings on the part of IWeb, our investigator felt that it should pay 
Mr D financial redress of £150 to fairly compensate Mr D for the distress and inconvenience 
he had suffered.  
Mr D has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
IWeb responded to our investigators view to say it disagreed with what hed said, in 
particular:  
it wouldnt have known beforehand that image quality would be an issue until its third 
party processed the cheque and the problem arose.
It could find no record of correspondence from Mr D on 8 March 2020 or 
20 December 2020. It had identified receipt of a letter dated 8th March 2021 which it 
believed was the same communication and provided Mr D with the relevant form 
which would enable him to carry out the information request.
Mr Ds transfer was ongoing was around the same time that the UK Government 
introduced its first national lockdown measures and this resulted in a very volatile 
stock market. As an execution only stockbroker, IWeb was very much subject to 
client demand and it would have received a significant increase in its call volumes. In 
addition to this, it was having to find ways of carrying on its operations using different 
ways of working. Taking the above circumstances into consideration, it said if Mr D 
was anxious or concerned about the location of his cash, it wouldve been more than 
reasonable for him to have waited for his call to be answered. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Where the information is incomplete or facts arent agreed by the parties involved, I must 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I must make reasonable assumptions where necessary.
I've carefully listened to the call recording when Mr D first approached this Service. It seems 
to me that the crux of Mr Ds complaint concerned finding out which business was 
responsible for the poor quality cheque issues that led to the problems that followed. Mr Ds 
concerns about the other business have been considered elsewhere. So Id like to start by 
making it clear that the scope of my remit here is to consider only whether IWeb acted fairly 
and reasonably in the way it managed the transfer and dealt with Mr D. 
 
I dont think IWeb can fairly be held responsible for the cheque bouncing since the cheque 
had been provided by the other financial business. And I havent seen enough to be able to 
say that not being able to process the cheque due to the image quality being too poor was a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of IWeb attempting to pay it in. Im mindful that even if 
IWeb had identified concerns about image quality, it would in any event still have needed to 
request a replacement cheque or make alternative arrangements to receive the funds from 
the other financial business. IWeb does seem to have reacted promptly to what happened. On 30 March 2020, when it 
found out the cheque couldnt be processed, it emailed the other financial business 
straightaway and followed up its email with a phone call the next day. It told us it took the 
necessary steps to arrange for a replacement cheque. Given that the money was back in 
Mr Ds account just six working days later, I've no reason to think IWeb was responsible for 
any delay putting things right when the cheque bounced. 
I also dont think IWeb acted unreasonably when it removed the £15,500 from Mr Ds ISA 
when it became clear that sum hadnt been successfully transferred from the other financial 
business. IWeb said this was done to ensure Mr Ds ISA headroom was not affected  
I understand this to mean it took the action needed in order to avoid there being any 
incorrect impact on his annual ISA allowance, bearing in mind that this re-sets each tax year 
on 6 April. 
But I do think IWeb should have kept Mr D better informed about what was happening. 
To my mind, it should have realised that having this sum of money disappear from his 
account, without any explanation, was bound to be upsetting for Mr H, particularly as IWeb 
was aware it was a difficult time for customers trying to make contact. 
Had IWeb communicated with Mr D on 30 March 2020 when it first discovered the payment 
issue, or the next  day when it could have reported to him how things would be resolved, 
I think this would likely have gone a long way towards putting Mr Ds mind at rest and 
avoided the need for him to have to repeatedly try and chase for information. I dont think 
expecting Mr D to be able to hold on the phone for more than two hours for a call to be 
answered is a reasonable expectation. 
Mr D found it frustrating not to receive responses to letters he told us he had sent to IWeb in 
March and December 2020. Its possible that post went astray  Ive seen no proof of 
delivery and IWeb has no record of any such letters. But Im mindful that IWeb said it had 
identified receipt of a letter dated 8 March 2021 which (I understand it to be saying) it 
believed was the same communication Mr D was referring to (sent in March 2020). IWeb 
said it had provided Mr D with the relevant form which would enable him to carry out the 
information request. But if this is the form it sent him to complete on 12 May 2020 (so some 
two months later) that seems to me a very delayed response  particularly in view of the 
course events took, which IWeb must have known Mr D would be worrying about. I think it 
was unreasonable that IWeb failed to get in touch with Mr D sooner and engage with him on 
matters of legitimate concern. 
I've taken into account that IWeb said it should not be considered reasonable that it is 
punished due to events well beyond its own reasonable control. But I find that the onus was 
on IWeb, particularly as it was the business effectively managing the requested ISA transfer, 
to keep Mr H properly informed about what was happening, especially when things didnt go 
to plan. I cant see it did this. 
So, for this reason I am upholding Mr Ds complaint.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr D feels that I should award more compensation to reflect the full extent of shortcomings 
on the part of IWeb and the stress this has caused him over more than two and a half years. 
IWeb has confirmed it has nothing further to add. 
As I have now heard from both parties I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my 
review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Mr D that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above only what seem to me to be 
the main points of concern he has raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account 
everything he has asked me to reconsider.   
Im very sorry indeed that dealing with this complaint has proved so stressful and vexing for 
Mr D that it has contributed to health problems. I appreciate that Mr D takes a different view 
to me about the amount of redress that IWeb should pay. But Mr D hasnt provided me with 
any new information that changes what I think about this case and Im just dealing here with 
this particular complaint rather than some of the wider issues he has mentioned. Id already 
considered all the main points and addressed in my provisional decision all the points which 
have a bearing on the outcome. 
I still think the compensation figure in my provisional decision is fair overall for the reasons 
I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
The sum of £150 fairly reflects that not knowing what had happened to his money, when 
IWeb could and should have kept Mr D informed, was a particularly stressful situation for 
Mr D which understandably caused him significant worry and distress. So IWeb should pay 
an amount of £150 compensation to Mr D.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share 
Dealing, to take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman