DRN-4506792
The complaint
Mr B complains about how AWP P&C SA has dealt with his travel insurance claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents. Mr B is represented by his father in this complaint, but 
Ill just refer to Mr B.
What happened
Mr B has travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer is AWP.
In August 2022 Mr B and his family went abroad, where his brother lives, for a family 
occasion. While abroad Mr Bs son, who was covered by the insurance, had an accident and 
was admitted to hospital. On admission Mr B agreed to be guarantor for the costs and he 
gave the hospital his brothers address as the hospital required an address in the country 
they were in. Mr B told AWP about the accident and it accepted the claim. 
Mr B complains that AWP delayed in settling the medical costs resulting in the medical 
providers and then debt collectors sending chasing letters for the unpaid costs to him at his 
brothers address, causing him and his brother a lot of stress. Mr Bs brother contacted AWP 
to ask it to pay the outstanding costs as he didnt want enforcement action on his home. 
AWP accepted there had been delays and poor communication. It offered Mr B £80 for his 
distress and inconvenience, which he rejected. 
Mr B complained to us. In summary he said:
AWP had failed to give any substantive response to his and his brothers 
communications. His brother was still receiving chasing letters for $191 for medical 
costs that were still outstanding.
AWPs inaction meant he was so stressed that hed taken medical advice and his 
father had to represent him in the complaint. There was now a rift in his relationship 
with his brother and his parents were concerned about possible enforcement action 
against his brothers home. He couldnt go to see his brother abroad while there were 
outstanding bills. 
He wants AWP to provide proof that all the costs have been paid and pay 
compensation of about £2,000 for all his familys distress and inconvenience AWP 
has caused.
Our investigator explained we couldnt award compensation for Mr Bs brothers distress and 
inconvenience. She recommended that AWP:
Pay the outstanding account of $191 from the named medical provider within 28 days 
of both sides accepting her view and provide Mr B with evidence of payment. 
Send Mr B details of all bill payments it had made  noting that the final payments 
may be less than the original bills where these have been negotiated.
Pay Mr B £250, instead of the £80 previously offered, for his distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor communication and failure to keep him updated.
AWP accepted the recommendation. Mr B didnt accept and wants an ombudmans decision. 
He doesnt think £250 compensation is enough to acknowledge his and his familys 
inconvenience, frustration and stress. He added:
AWP hadnt acted in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles for 
treating customers fairly and communicating information in a way which is clear, fair 
and not misleading.
His brother had been involved in the situation through no fault of his own and he 
detailed why he thought his brothers distress and inconvenience should be taken 
into account. 
AWP should have contacted the hospital to request that the bills be sent to AWP not 
to his brothers address and it should do so now. If the hospital had said bills could 
only be sent to the address given at the time of hospital admission AWP should have 
told him or his brother. 
AWP should have told him the estimated timescale for the settlement of the account 
and how to deal with the communication about the bills. He and his family arent 
familiar with the workings of the claims system involving medical facilities in the 
relevant country. 
He emphasised that he and his family want closure of the matter and he wanted to 
know what would happen if AWP didnt comply with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the points Mr B has made, which Ive only summarised above, but I wont 
address all his points in my findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and 
the key points which I think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
The rules of the relevant regulator, the FCA, say that insurers must handle claims promptly 
and fairly and they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Ive taken into account those 
rules, the relevant law and industry guidelines in making my decision, which include the FCA 
principles that Mr Bs referred to.
AWP accepts its provided poor service when dealing with the claim. I need to decide if the 
£250 compensation for Mr Bs distress and inconvenience that its now agreed to pay is fair 
and reasonable.
Under the FCA rules (the DISP rules) we can only look into complaints brought by eligible 
complainants, which the rules define. It follows that we can only award compensation  
including awards for distress or inconvenience  to eligible complainants. Mr Bs brother 
doesnt meet the definition of eligible complainant. So even if I thought the evidence 
showed Mr Bs brother had been stressed and inconvenienced by AWPs poor service I cant 
award any compensation to him or to Mr B to give to his brother. For the same reason I cant 
award any compensation for any distress and inconvenience Mr Bs parents may have had.The evidence shows Mr B had been contacting AWP regularly about unpaid bills information 
being sent to his brothers address, his concerns and that he wanted those bills paid. His 
brother also emailed AWP on the same.
Its usual with medical treatment in the relevant county for the individual medical providers to 
bill separately and for insurers to negotiate the settlement before paying bills. Insurers are 
entitled to assess costs theyre being asked to pay and the medical providers can agree 
discounts to medical bills but those negotiations take time.
In those circumstances I think its fair for an insurer to tell the insured about the assessment 
process. I agree with Mr B that AWP should have reasonably told him about the likely 
timescale for bill payment and what to do with the letters to him about the bills.
I think AWP did give him that information in its email of 4 October 2022, which was less than 
two months after the claim. AWPs email said:
Please note that hospitals in (the relevant country) sometimes take nearly a year and 
a half to finalize bills with insurance companies and in the meantime will keep 
sending invoices to the client.
Please don't pay any of these and send a scan or photograph of the letter to us at (its 
email address).
Mr Bs highlighted that the salutation on the email was to his son, whod been the patient. 
But AWPs email was sent to the email address Mr B was using to send his emails to AWP. 
And the email between Mr B and his brother of 8 November 2022 refers to the contents of 
AWPs email of 4 October 2020 so Mr B knew the content of AWPs email. 
Im satisfied that early on in the claim assessment process AWP gave Mr B a clear estimate 
of how long the process would take, that the medical providers would keep sending him bills 
(which was to the address hed given the providers) and what should be done with the bills.
 
AWPs email of 3 January 2023 also gave Mr B information about the billing and claim 
process, again emphasising that negotiation of the bills:
can be a lengthy process and the hospital may send you automatic reminders to pay 
the medical fees for the full amount.
This is the reason we require you to forward us all the invoices and reminders you 
receive from the hospital so we can log it in the case and process it.
That email was also to Mr Bs son but emails between Mr B and his brother show theyd 
seen AWPs email.
AWPs email of 3 January 2023 also said N.B. The non-payment of the invoices due to 
negotiation, will have no impact on your US entry or credit score. So AWP had told Mr B that 
the outstanding costs being negotiated shouldnt prevent him from travelling to see his 
brother.
However, I dont think AWP did enough to update Mr B about what was happening with the 
bills to give him reassurance that they were being actioned. Mr B specifically asked AWP 
what bills had been paid, receipts of payments and progress of any unpaid bills and I cant 
see that AWP ever responded. Over time Mr Bs brother stopped receiving reminders for 
most of the bills, so it appears that most have been paid. But it would have been reasonable 
for AWP to have kept Mr B informed. From Mr Bs notes of his phone calls with AWP he also had some frustrating experiences trying to speak to someone who could help him find out 
what was happening.
AWP said there had been some delays, although I note that Im making this decision within 
the 18 months potential timescale AWP realistically gave Mr B to negotiate and pay finalised 
bills. I think its communication with Mr B was generally poor, which AWP accepts.
AWP has now agreed to pay Mr B £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience 
due to its poor service. I think thats a fair amount for the distress and inconvenience AWP 
caused Mr B by its unreasonable actions. I cant fairly award compensation for Mr Bs stress 
due to the standard medical bill claims process in the relevant country which, as AWP told 
Mr B early on, is likely to be lengthy.
Mr Bs brother is still receiving bill reminders for outstanding medical costs of $191 and AWP 
hasnt said the bill has been paid. It may be the bill is still being negotiated. But given the 
comparatively small amount and to give Mr B closure of the matter I think AWP should pay 
the outstanding account for medical costs of $191 within the timescale set out below. It 
should then provide Mr B with evidence of payment. 
It would assist Mr B if AWP wrote to the medical provider to ask it to send any future bill 
reminders to AWP rather than to Mr Bs brothers address. Mr B should note that the hospital 
may well ignore that request and when the bill is paid there should be no more reminders.
AWP must also send Mr B evidence of all the bills its paid. Mr B should note that the final 
payments may be less than the original bills where these have been negotiated.
Ive no reason to think that AWP wont comply with my decision. But if AWP doesnt comply 
with my decision Mr B should contact our investigator.
Putting things right
AWP must put things right as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to:
Pay Mr B £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by its poor 
service, as its now agreed, and
Pay the outstanding account for medical costs of $191 within 28 days of us sending it 
Mr Bs acceptance of this decision and then provide Mr B with evidence of payment, 
and 
Ask the medical provider which is owed the $191 to send any bill reminders to it 
rather than to Mr Bs brothers address, and
Send Mr B evidence of all the medical bills its paid under this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman