DRN-4024239
The complaint
Mr R complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to return funds left in his account after it was
closed and didnt provide a reason for the closure of the account.
What happened
Mr R says that he emigrated and had no intention of returning to the UK. He further stated
that he wasnt in the UK for the whole of 2019 and 2020. In March 2019, a payment was
received into Mr Rs account for over £8,000 and the funds were spent straight away using
the debit card issued to the account. Metro then received notification from another UK bank
that these funds were the result of a scam. Mr Rs account was blocked.
Several weeks later, Mr R spoke with Metro and told them hed lost his debit card. Metro
asked Mr R about the incoming scam payment into his account. Mr R denied knowing
anything about the money or how the funds had been used (with his debit card).
Metro attempted to contact Mr R but were unsuccessful and heard nothing more. The
following year they issued a notice to Mr R and closed the account.
Mr R has said that he was told the balance of the account (£63.51) was available for him to
collect, but Metro later declined to refund any money to him. Mr R visited a branch of Metro
and found their customer service lacking and eventually made a complaint. Metro
maintained their position that they wouldnt refund Mr R and money but accepted theyd let
him down with their customer service and made a £20 payment to him.
Mr R was unhappy with how Metro had dealt with his issue and brought it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our
adjudicators. After reviewing the evidence provided by both parties, Mr Rs complaint wasnt
upheld. The adjudicator didnt think that Mr R was entitled to any of the remaining funds in
his account because hed denied any involvement in the scam payment.
Mr R disagreed and still thought those remaining funds should be paid to him and asked for
a further review of his complaint.
When examining the statements, it was found that prior to the incoming scam payment,
Mr Rs balance was £14.33 and Metro were asked about this figure. They agreed to repay
this to Mr R because it was present in his account prior to the scam payment.
Mr R was asked if hed accept this figure to close the complaint but refused and insisted that
he was due the final £63.51 left in the account.
Because no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Rs complaint on 10 March 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold (in part) Mr Rs complaint and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs principal complaint here is that he believes hes due the final figure left in his account
when it was closed. But that figure includes funds that were derived from a scam and Mr R
denies any link to the scam.
Those funds came from someone elses account that was subject to fraud, so any remaining
funds linked to that would ordinarily be sent back to them. As Mr R denies any knowledge of
those fraudulent funds, it follows that he cant be entitled to them. But here, hes entitled to
funds in his account that were present prior to the receipt of the scammed funds, which
amounts to £14.33. Metro have agreed to repay them.
I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome here and its my intention to uphold this
complaint (in part) to require the repayment of the £14.33 along with any applicable account
interest that may have accrued until the account was closed. If the account wasnt interest
bearing then I dont consider that any should be due.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Metro to close the account the way they did and I wont
be recommending any further action regards this. Metro have already provided
compensation for the poor service Mr R experienced, and I think this was both fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I currently intend to uphold this complaint (in part) and 
recommend that Metro repay Mr R £14.33 including any applicable interest.
Metro accepted my provisional decision, but Mr R did not, believing that he was entitled to 
the remaining £63 left in his account when it was closed. Mr R stated that hed been told in a 
letter issued by Metro that he was able to collect the remaining £63.51. Mr R also stated that 
he hadnt complained about the closure of his account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr R may have received a letter from Metro at the time concerning the closure of his 
account and what funds were remaining, their later decision not to pay this to Mr R is the 
crux of the complaint. 
Having considered all the evidence, my decision remains the same. For the avoidance of 
doubt, Mr R cant be entitled to funds that were the result of a scam, but here he can be paid 
his own funds left in the account prior to the receipt of the scam payment.
Ill briefly comment on Mr Rs assertion that he hadnt complained about the closure of his 
account. In the case notes for this complaint, Mr Rs original email to our service contained 
the following:
They have also given no reason to close account either.
Its apparent from this comment that Mr R was complaining about the lack of reason given for the closure of his account, which is why its been included here.
Putting things right
The recommendation I made in my provisional decision that Metro repay Mr R £14.33 plus 
any applicable account interest until the account was closed are now adopted for this final 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint (in part) and require Metro Bank PLC to 
repay Mr R the funds left in his account, the details of which are set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman