DRN-2894283
The complaint
R complains that a finance agreement was misrepresented to them by Autorama UK 
Limited, trading as Vanarama.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
R acquired the car under a contract hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the agreement should not have been 
misrepresented to R. If R was told something that was untrue and that led R to enter into an 
agreement they would not otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had 
been misrepresented to them and Id ask Autorama to take some action.
R have relied on information sent to them when they agreed the hire. That information gives 
advice on what to do if the mileage changes and explains that the consumer should contact 
the business who can get a quote for you to increase your mileage and that Autorama can 
discuss options. 
That wasnt true as Autorama couldnt get a quote to increase the mileage allowance as the 
credit company didnt provide that facility at the time.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether there is evidence that R would not have proceeded 
with the agreement had they known the mileage limit couldnt be amended.
I dont think there is evidence of that as I think the document provided before the agreement 
was signed explained only that a quote could be provided. It didnt explain what that quote 
would be or whether it would be less than the additional mileage charge of 9.4p noted in the 
finance agreement. R were therefore on notice that they could face charges of up to 9.4p per 
mile but were not aware how much that charge could be reduced, if at all. I think its 
therefore likely they were prepared to enter the agreement regardless of whether a reduction 
in the excess mileage charge could be negotiated if they exceeded the contractual mileage 
at a later date.
And, even if Im wrong about that, I have to consider if Autorama have been reasonable here 
and I think they have. They offered to pay half of the excess mileage charges that became 
due. I think its likely that even if the credit provider had been able to provide a quote for an 
increase in instalments, taking a higher mileage limit into account, the saving would not have 
been anymore. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded this agreement was misrepresented and, regardless, I think 
Autorama have dealt with the complaint reasonably. Im not asking them to take any further 
action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman