DRN-3012256
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim she made under her home emergency cover.
What happened
Mrs C had had problems with her boiler  which was about 14 years old. So in January 2021 
she bought a home emergency policy with British Gas and paid £168. Taking out the policy 
meant British Gas would send an engineer to sort out the problem.
British Gas overcharged Mrs C by £109 for the policy  but when she pointed this out the 
money was returned.
Mrs C told British Gas she had to shield because of Covid19. She was reassured that 
engineers followed the necessary safety measures.
In total ten visits were made to repair the boiler between 23 January and 19 February. There 
were several faults identified and fixed  but eventually an engineer said the required parts 
were obsolete and Mrs C would need a new boiler.
British Gas explained the policy didnt cover replacing boilers that were over seven years 
old. It acknowledged Mrs C hadnt been well served and refunded the amount shed paid for 
the policy and paid £150 compensation.
Mrs C didnt think this was fair and asked us to review her complaint. Our investigator 
thought British Gas could have been more pro-active in advising that the boiler was obsolete 
and needed replacing  and if it had done that early on them Mrs C wouldnt have had so 
many visits, which were especially worrying as she said the engineers didnt always follow 
Covid19 safety measures.
British Gas objects  it said it did tell Mrs C on the first visit that her boiler needed replacing 
but she didnt want to do that so it kept trying to repair it. It thinks the compensation its 
already paid is sufficient.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas says it told Mrs C her boiler needed replacing on its first visit  and has sent us a 
list of the codes it uses to summarise what was said to a customer. The code in question is 
used when an engineer has recommended one of British Gass other companies quote to 
replace the boiler. A second code used suggests a quote had been provided but Mrs C didnt 
accept it.
The next few visits use a code that suggests no replacement is necessary  and the repairs 
are deemed successful.
There isnt much detail on what was actually said to Mrs C  other than that on the 18 
February a part is noted as obsolete  and the following day the boiler is turned off 
Mrs C says no-one told her the boiler needed replacing early in the process  which is why 
she kept allowing engineers to visit. And I do find that argument persuasive, given she was 
taking extra precautions (shielding) at the time. Shes told us how worried she was when 
engineers didnt always follow the safety guidelines for Covid19  and I dont doubt that. 
British Gas says its reminded its engineers about taking precautions which seems 
reasonable.
Ive thought carefully about whether the additional compensation is warranted, and I think it 
is. Ten visits to repair a boiler  when the last but one (18 February) reports boiler in 
absolute state inside and the final one (19 February) results in the appliance being turned 
off suggests British Gas could have done more to bring this to a close much sooner. I 
appreciate British Gas argument that it was trying to keep the old appliance going because 
thats what Mrs C wanted, but I think it could have prevented some at least of the visits by 
explaining things better, After all, its British Gas thats the expert here, not Mrs C.
Im pleased to see British Gas returned the premium to Mrs C  but I also think it should pay 
the additional £100. 
Putting things right
British Gas should ay the additional £100 compensation.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
£100 to Mrs C.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman