DRN-3405797
The complaint
Ms G complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) irresponsibly granted her a loan 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2018, Ms G acquired a car and financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with RCI. Ms G was required to make 36 monthly repayments of £506.35, with a 
final optional payment of £10,837.50 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the 
agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £29,665.94 towards which Ms G 
paid a £600 deposit that RCI have explained consisted of a £200 payment by Ms G and a 
£400 deposit contribution.
Ms G says that RCI didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. RCI didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included reviewing Ms Gs credit file and asking her about her 
income. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought RCI ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Ms G.
RCI agreed to settle the complaint on the terms the adjudicator suggested but Ms G was 
disappointed. She explained that she needed to keep the car and would still have had her 
old one had RCI not approved the finance. She said she needed the car to transport her 
children and she explained that she wouldnt be able to get credit to acquire a new one.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RCI will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Ms G initially declared her income to be £6,500 and later amended that to £26,514. I 
understand that meant that the loan was automatically approved but I think the variation in 
the income reported should have raised concerns for RCI. Given the overall size of the 
borrowing, the monthly repayments, and the term of the agreement, I think it would have 
been proportionate for RCI to have verified Ms Gs income to ensure the agreement was 
affordable.
One way RCI could have done this was by requesting copies of Ms Gs bank statements. 
Ive reviewed two months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. 
The statements show that Ms G was earning about £1,422 per month and that her 
committed expenditure for bills, travel, food, and credit commitments was £1,521. This 
demonstrates that Ms G didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional 
borrowing. I think its likely proportionate checks would have revealed this to RCI, it therefore 
didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think RCI ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all the 
payments Ms G has made, including any deposit. However, Ms G has had use of the car 
throughout the term of the agreement (36 months), so I think its fair she pays for that use. 
But Im not persuaded that monthly repayments of over £506 a month are a fair reflection of 
what fair usage would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards 
repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Ms Gs likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Ms G should pay is £350 for 
each month she had use of the car. This means RCI can only ask her to repay a total of 
£12,600 (the duration of the agreement). Anything Ms G has paid in excess of this amount 
should be treated as an overpayment. 
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to tell RCI to allow Ms G to keep the car and 
approve a repayment plan for the outstanding final payment. Wed usually try to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in had the unaffordable loan not been 
approved. I think this decision does so and whilst I understand Ms Gs reason for wanting to 
keep the car I dont think it would be reasonable to insist that RCI allow that. It wouldnt be 
putting Ms G back in the position she would have been in, it would be enhancing that 
position.
To settle Ms Gs complaint RCI should do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car.
Refund all the payments Ms G has made, less £12,600 for fair usage. 
oIf Ms G has paid more than the fair usage figure, RCI should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Ms G has paid less than the fair usage figure, RCI should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once RCI has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Ms Gs credit file regarding the agreement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires RCI to take off tax from this interest. RCI must give 
Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Ms G asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct RCI Financial Services Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman