DRN-1658009
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) closed his account due to his behaviour at 
one of their branches. 
Background
Mr W received a letter from Lloyds telling him they would close his account following an 
incident at a local branch. Lloyds say hed been aggressive towards staff at the branch and 
had been before. Mr W disputes he was aggressive although accepts he was banging on the 
branch door to allow him to come to make a cash withdrawal. He says that he was then 
allowed to carry out the transaction. 
Lloyds gave Mr W 60 days to close his account. 
Mr W was unhappy with their decision and the case was referred to this service. 
The investigator gathered all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint saying 
that Lloyds acted in line with the account terms and conditions.
Mr W was unhappy with this and the matter has been referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also come to the same decision here as the investigator and for much the same 
reasons.
Under its Personal Banking Terms and Conditions section L .24 Lloyds can close an account 
- if they reasonably think that: you are or maybe behaving improperly (for example, in a 
threatening or abusive way). 
When coming to my decision I have looked at what both parties have said here. Mr W 
believes that he wasnt being abusive and says he was allowed in to carry out the 
transaction. He does agree he was banging on the door as he thought Lloyds had closed the 
branch early.  Lloyds on the other hand have case notes from more than one member of 
staff stating that he was abusive and this had happened before.
Mr W has said that Lloyds should provide CCTV evidence and they havent done so. Lloyds 
say they only hold these for a limited period of time so its not available. I note that in any 
event this would only have been of limited benefit, as it doesnt provide any supporting audio 
sound. 
Im satisfied, on balance, Mr. Ws frustration did result in an unacceptable level of behaviour. 
Mr P admits he was banging on the door to get in and more than one member of staff says he was abusive. Different members of staff have said he barged into the branch and his 
voice was raised and aggressive in its tone. 
Also from the case notes Ive seen this isnt the first occasion this type of behaviour has 
been noted by Lloyds staff. In view of this Im satisfied that Lloyds were reasonable in 
enforcing the terms and conditions to give notice to close the account.  
In these instances we would expect a reasonable period of time to be given to allow the 
customer to make new banking arrangements. Lloyds agreed to extend this from the initial 
30 day notice period to 60 days, which I feel is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision but I feel that I cant ask Lloyds to do any 
more here as they have acted within the terms and conditions of the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
24 April 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman