DRN-1752186
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy associated 
with his mortgage by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
In April 2002 Mr J took out a PPI policy over the telephone. This policy was to cover his 
mortgage repayments if he was made unemployed. Mr J cancelled the PPI in October 2004.
Mr J has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold but Santander hasnt upheld his 
complaint. Santander has considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been 
charged on the premiums and said that the mortgage Mr J took out didnt fall within the rules 
and guidance introduced about this. Therefore, no refund for excess commission was due.
Mr J wasnt happy with Santanders response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold and what Santander had 
said was fair. 
Mr J remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Mr J has told us that he can remember little about what happened at the time of the sale or 
his circumstances at that time as it was a long time ago. But he says he knows he wasnt 
told anything about the PPI and was unaware it had been sold to him. 
The records and information provided by Santander are limited as this sale occurred nearly 
20 years ago. It does not have the actual forms completed by Mr J but does have some 
computer records recording information from the time. These indicate that Mr J took out the 
PPI over the telephone and it seems it was sold at a totally different time to when he took out 
his mortgage. 
At the time of the sale of the PPI Mr J spoke to a customer advisor on the phone, details 
were taken from Mr J and the completed application form would then have been sent out to 
Mr J for his signature. Mr J would have needed to check the details on the form and sign to 
confirm they were correct. This was an application form for PPI only and he also indicated by 
signing the form that he wanted to apply for the PPI policy. 
I can see that Mr J was given a choice of different types of cover on the policy. He could 
have chosen to have Accident, Sickness and Unemployment cover; Accident and Sickness 
cover only; or Unemployment cover only. The computer records indicate Mr J chose to only take out cover for Unemployment. The cost of the PPI premium for this were set out on the 
form. The premium Mr J paid is in line with him choosing only Unemployment cover for his 
mortgage payment protection. 
Mr J also had to complete a direct debit form, which was attached to the PPI application 
form, to set up the separate payment for the PPI premium from his bank.
Taking into account everything that Mr J would have completed and signed to apply for the 
PPI, I think he would have known at the time he had a choice whether or not to take out the 
PPI and he chose to take it because he thought it would be of use to him.
I also note from the records that in May 2002, around six weeks after taking out the policy, 
Mr J called Santander and asked about making a claim on the policy and in September 2002 
he again called and asked for a claim form. No claims were made on either occasion. 
Then in October 2004 Mr J called and cancelled the PPI. The notes indicate he said his 
reason for cancelling was he wanted to cut down his monthly outgoings and felt he no longer 
wanted this policy.
So although Mr J now says he never knew he had the PPI policy, I think at the time, he 
chose to take it out and did know about it. As he says, it was a long time ago and he doesnt 
remember too well what happened at the time. 
I have also considered if the policy was suitable for Mr J. Santander says it was 
recommended to him based on his circumstances that he discussed over the telephone.  I 
cannot be sure exactly what was said over the phone and if the full details of the policy were 
explained to Mr J. So I have looked at what information he had on the application form and 
what limited information he has provided about his circumstances to see if it was suitable.
On the application form the monthly cost of the policy for every £100 of benefit is indicated. 
In addition, when the completed form was provided for his signature the actual cost of the 
premium, for the type of cover and monthly benefit selected, would have been clearly stated. 
So Mr J should have been aware of the cost and benefit he was paying for when he signed 
the application form. 
I dont know fully what information was given to Mr J about the terms and conditions that 
applied to the policy. After he took it out, he would have been sent a Welcome Pack which 
would have provided full information, but this was after he had applied for the PPI. 
Looking at what I know of Mr Js circumstances at the time he took out the PPI, from what he 
has said and from Santanders records, I think he was eligible for the policy. And I have seen 
nothing to show he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So I 
think the PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong.
Mr J only took out cover for unemployment. He was employed and the information from 
Santander indicates he had been in the same job for around 5 years. So he may have got a 
small redundancy payment. Mr J hasnt indicated if he had any savings which he could have 
used to pay his mortgage if not working. But any redundancy and savings could have been 
used for other living expenses and may have been essential if Mr J was not working. The 
PPI would then have paid his mortgage payments for 12 months, which would have been of 
great benefit.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr J at the time of the sale about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But I think he chose to take out the PPI at the time - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover and I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr J off taking out the cover.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Santander. I think at the time Mr J was aware 
he had a choice whether to take it out and he thought it would be useful.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by Santander. However, the type of mortgage Mr J 
took out is not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct 
Authority relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Santander UK Plc 
to Mr J and Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman