DRN-2953603
The complaint
Mr A complained Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) provided poor service 
when dealing with his claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has a bank account with added mobile phone insurance provided by Assurant.
On 31 October 2020 Mr A registered a claim for damage to his mobile phone through the 
website. He received an automated message saying hed receive a response within 24 
hours.
As Mr A hadnt received a response, on 3 November he called Assurant to see whether his 
claim was progressing. He was advised that paperwork had been sent to him on 2 
November, when he explained this hadnt been received it was sent to him again that day. 
The paperwork included instructions on how to send the phone to Assurant for repair which 
Mr A did the next day by special delivery. He tracked the parcel and has said it showed as 
being delivered successfully at 9am on 5 November. 
Assurant said its repair team received the phone on Friday 6 November and had a time 
frame of one to three working days to complete the repair.
On 9 November Mr A called Assurant for an update and was told that they were waiting for 
parts but that to avoid any further delay they would send him a replacement phone. 
Mr A was unhappy he had to pay for the postage and packaging to send his phone for repair 
as well as the £50 excess under his policy. He felt the service was poor and that he wasnt 
kept updated. He explained the online portal just said claim in progress so he had to call for 
updates. 
Mr A said he lives away from his family, so being able to stay in touch with them regularly 
was important, and not being able to do so caused him anxiety. He also said he needed his 
phone for work purposes and day to day activities so found it very difficult to communicate 
without his family, friends, or his work without his phone. 
The investigator said Mr A had to pay the excess under the policy terms and so this was fair. 
He also said there was no provision under the policy for postage costs involved in sending 
the mobile phone to the insurer for repair. So, he didnt recommend this was reimbursed. 
However, he didnt think Assurant had kept Mr A updated and that it didnt meet its own 
deadlines, causing Mr A unnecessary inconvenience. So, he asked Assurant to pay £50 
compensation. 
Assurant maintained it had provided a replacement phone within its time scales and that it 
wasnt reasonable for them to provide regular updates to each customer on the progress of 
their claim. So, it disagreed with the investigators view and the complaint was referred for 
decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A is of the view that given the service he received he shouldnt have to pay the excess or 
the cost of postage. My role here is to decide if I think Assurant has acted fairly when 
applying the excess and declining to reimburse Mr A for his postage costs. Im satisfied 
Assurant acted fairly here. Like the investigator, Ive considered all the information provided, 
including the terms and conditions of the Mr As policy, and Ive copied the relevant terms 
below:
You need to pay a contribution every time you make a successful claim, this is the 
excess and the amount will be:
Non-Apple handsets  
     £50 for damage and breakdown claims or £100 for loss and theft claims 
Your excess is payable for every accepted claim and must be paid before your claim 
will be settled.
And
You will need to post your mobile phone to us for repair. The cost of postage and 
packaging is not covered under this insurance policy.
Im satisfied Assurant fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy when asking Mr A 
to pay his excess and the postage costs. As Mr A is required to pay the excess and postage 
under the terms of the policy, I cant say it has acted unreasonably here. I wont be requiring 
Assurant to refund this as Mr A has asked.
However, Ive considered the service Mr A received and I cant see the time frames for repair 
or replacement of his mobile phone were made clear to Mr A at the outset. And, it seems 
that on all the evidence there were some slight delays which have caused him 
inconvenience. 
I take on board Assurants view its not practical to provide regular updates given the tight 
turnaround times it has described. However, it would be reasonable to let the customer know 
the timescales involved and when they can expect updates at the start of the process. As it 
was, I cant see this was done effectively. Mr A made a claim on 31 October but didnt 
receive confirmation of the process until 3 November. While Assurant says it wrote to Mr A 
on 2 November, the screen prints provided indicate the letter was printed on 3 November. 
So, I cant be sure Assurant met the objective of sending the paperwork out the next working 
day or that Mr A was contacted within 24 hours of registering his claim.
It seems from Assurants comments this might not be the case where a claim was registered 
on a Saturday  as in Mr As case. But the impact on Mr A is that without knowing his claim 
had been accepted, or likely timeframes for it being resolved, is that it was difficult for him to 
contact his family, friends, and work.
It seems Mr A was provided with information that didnt reflect his situation at the start of the 
process and so reasonably expected to be contact the next day  when this didnt happen, 
he felt the need to chase this up.
Had Assurant set out the process and timescales more clearly when Mr A registered his 
claim, he would have had a clearer idea of when to expect his phone back and when to expect contact. Its clear from what Mr A told us his phone was incredibly important to him as 
a way of receiving support from his family and for day to day living. So, had Assurant made 
the process clearer to Mr A when he registered the claim or provided more detailed updates 
on their portal, its unlikely Mr A would have felt the need contact Assurant for updates and it 
would have reduced the inconvenience and worry he experienced.   
In summary although following Mr A chasing for updates Assurant provided a replacement 
handset within the time scales outline in its email to Mr A on 3 November, I agree there were 
some service failings. I dont think Assurant were clear enough about its timescales at the 
outset which caused unnecessary worry and inconvenience to Mr A. But I dont think this 
means Mr A isnt liable to pay the excess or postage. However, I agree with the investigator 
that £50 is fair and reasonable compensation to reflect the impact of the early service failings 
on Mr A in this claim.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr A £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience they caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman