DRN-2075105
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd (SAGIC) included a 
flood endorsement to his home insurance policy when he lives in a low flood risk area.
What happened
Mr M got a quote from SAGIC for home insurance in June 2020. The quote included an 
endorsement excluding claims for flood damage. A SAGIC adviser also explained the 
endorsement to Mr M over the phone.
Mr M accepted the quote and paid the premium for the policy. Later the same day, he got 
confirmation from a government agency his area was at low risk of flooding. He wanted 
SAGIC to remove the flood endorsement.
SAGIC said its postcode risk checker showed flood cover was declined for Mr Ms postcode. 
It said it couldnt change its underwriting criteria. It refunded Mr Ms insurance premium but 
he decided to carry on with the policy.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ms complaint didnt uphold it. She thought SAGIC had 
acted reasonably in telling Mr M about the endorsement before he bought the policy.
Mr M wants an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Mr M has evidence from a government agency that his area is at low risk of flooding. He 
says SAGIC under common law has to act on the basis of adequate, probative evidence. 
He says he presumes SAGIC doesnt place a flood endorsement on all policies and so its 
unfair for it to do so in the case of lowest risk.
An insurer can decide what risks it wishes to take on. This is a commercial decision every 
insurer can take  and different insurers can take different decisions based on their own 
assessments of risk. Its not something we can interfere with. 
But we can look to see if an insurer has applied its criteria for taking on risks fairly to its 
customer. This means ensuring that a policyholder hasnt been treated differently to others in 
a similar situation. So thats what Ive done in Mr Ms case. SAGIC says it uses a flood 
mapping tool and a scoring system before it issues a quote. And its shown us the postcode 
checker it used to assess the risk for Mr Ms quote. For his postcode, this said (in red): 
Flooding: decline flood cover. 
From this information, I think anyone who lived in Mr Ms postcode and applied for this 
particular insurance product wouldve had flood cover declined. So I cant say SAGIC has 
treated Mr M unfairly in refusing to cover flood risk for his home.
I can also see Mr M was made aware of the endorsement before he decided to buy the 
cover. And the wording of the endorsement is clear and prominent on his quote. So I cant 
say SAGIC did anything wrong in selling him the policy with the flood endorsement.
Mr M says he didnt have a choice about buying the policy. But I think he did. If he was 
unhappy with the flood endorsement, I think he couldve shopped around for another policy 
that didnt include a flood endorsement. 
I can also see, having paid his premium, SAGIC told Mr M he had the right to cancel the 
policy if he was unhappy with the flood endorsement. And from the information Ive got, it 
looks as if it refunded him the premium. But Mr M called to say he wanted to continue with 
his policy and so SAGIC collected the premium again. Again, I dont think SAGIC did 
anything wrong here.
Having looked at all the evidence, including taking into account what Mr M says, I dont think 
SAGIC has treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman