DRN-3887158
The complaint
Mr T complains that Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st Stop Car Finance has acted unfairly in the
way it managed a hire purchase agreement for a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr T entered into a 60-month hire purchase agreement for a used car. The car
was four years old and had a mileage of around 35,000. Under the agreement Mr T agreed
to make 59 monthly payments of £251.88 and pay £271.68 in the 60th month. Mr T paid the
monthly instalment due in June 2019.
Mr T says that having had the car for around two weeks he found it had numerous faults and
he tried to speak to the supplying dealer about fixing them. Due to the lack of any action by
the supplying dealer Mr T contacted Oplo in July 2019 and registered his concerns about the
car. Mr T made no further payments under the agreement.
There then followed a number of discussions involving Mr T, Oplo and the supplying dealer
as to the condition of the car and the needed repairs. Mr T told Oplo in November 2019 that
he wanted to keep the car if the necessary repairs were sorted out and said, when complete
I will continue to pay for the finance. Mr T was warned by Oplo that the agreement could be
terminated and the car recovered if payments werent made.
In December 2019, a default notice was sent to Mr T due to the arrears that had built up on
the account. Mr T was required to clear the arrears of £1,007.52 by the end of the month or
the agreement may be terminated, and the vehicle recovered. Mr T didnt pay the arrears
and the hire purchase agreement was terminated by Oplo.
In January 2020 Mr T had a phone conversation with an agent of Oplos and it was again
advised that the car could be repossessed as it was Mr Ts responsibility to maintain the
payments under the agreement. Oplo says Mr T said he would have the funds to clear the
arrears once the issues with the car had been resolved.
The car was eventually repaired at no cost to Mr T in February 2020 and returned to him. At
this point, Mr T contacted Oplo to confirm the repairs had been successful and said he was
now happy to discuss the next steps going forward. Oplo issued its final response letter in
respect of Mr Ts complaint about the cars quality. It said that it now considered the
complaint closed as the car had been fixed.
Mr T contacted Oplo and said that he didnt think that it was fair for him to now pay all the
outstanding instalments when the car hadnt been working correctly. In March 2020 Oplo
replied that Mr T remained liable for the outstanding payments. Mr T said he was unhappy at
this response as he felt it was unfair, he said it would be fair either for the payments to be
written off for the period the car hadnt been working or for the term of the agreement to be
extended for that period of time. He confirmed he would be happy to pay for the car. 
In May 2020 Mr T complained to Oplo about the arrears it was seeking from him. Oplo
issued a final response letter to this complaint in June 2020. It said that under the agreement
he was liable to make the payments even though there had been issues with the vehicle. It
said there were now 10 months of payments outstanding which amounted to £2,518.80, four
months of which (£1,007.52) had accrued since the car had been repaired and returned to
Mr T in February 2020. 
Oplo said to prevent the car from being repossessed it would amend the outstanding arrears
to reflect the four-month period, that is reduce them to £1,007.52 and this amount would
require payment now. It said it would also extend the length of the agreement from 60 to 66
months so that the remaining six months of arrears didnt need to be cleared immediately
and the monthly payments would remain the same. Oplo said it would reset the monthly
payments and asked Mr T to discuss how the arrears would be paid.
Oplo also offered Mr T £150 compensation to reflect the amount of time that had been taken
to resolve the matter.
Mr T rejected the settlement offered by Oplo and, as no payments had been made on Mr Ts
account, the car was repossessed and sold at auction in August 2020. The sales price for
the car was credited against the outstanding balance on Mr Ts account.
Mr T was unhappy at Oplos response and complained to this service. He said he had been
clear that he would not pay the monthly instalments for the car while it was faulty, and it had
taken six months for Oplo to agree to pay for the repairs. Mr T said it was unfair to expect
him to pay for a faulty car.
Mr T also said that although the car had been fixed in February 2020 it had then taken four
months for Oplo to discuss a resolution with him and it was unfair to expect him to pay for a
car during that time as he hadnt known whether he would be keeping it or if it would be
repossessed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld as he didnt think
Oplo had acted unfairly.
Our investigator said he accepted the car had been faulty at its point of supply and that it
had been agreed between the parties that these should be repaired at no cost to Mr T. He
said the issue was whether Oplo had offered a fair settlement for the impaired usage of the
car by Mr T during the six months it had taken to fix it. Our investigator said that the car had
had some usage in that period, and he thought a 20% reduction for the monthly payments
for that six-month period would be fair. However, he said that as Oplo had offered to re-work
the agreement by extending its length, he thought this was fair to reflect the impact of using
the car. And that together with the £150 compensation Oplo had offered Mr T a fair
resolution rather than reducing the monthly payments for a period.
Our investigator said Mr T hadnt been entitled to stop payments under the agreement even
though there had been a breach of contract and it had been reasonable to expect him to
keep these up while the car was in his possession. He said Oplo had always been clear
about the consequences of not making payments.
Mr T disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that the car had developed faults
within a very short time of him acquiring it and he had not been able to make proper use of it.
When the car had been repaired, Mr T said he had offered to agree to Oplo placing that six
months of arrears at the end of the agreement but it had initially refused him, and then taken
a further four months to later agree to this. He said he had been left in limbo for this four-
month period. Mr T said this was very unfair of Oplo and it had been reasonable for him not
to make any payments as he didnt know if or when the car might be collected from him.As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
I didnt think it was disputed that the car had been found to have faults within a short time of 
Mr T acquiring it. Unfortunately, it had then taken around six months for these faults to be 
fixed at no cost to Mr T. Id seen that these repairs appeared to have been successful.
I therefore thought the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at its point of supply, but 
although that was a breach of the contract between Mr T and Oplo, that didnt mean Mr T 
had then been entitled to stop making any payments under the agreement. I thought the 
terms of the hire purchase had been clear that Mr T was obliged to make monthly payments 
for the car, and it also set out there would be consequences for failing to do so.
Id seen that during the various calls between Mr T and Oplo, Mr T had informed Oplo that 
he intended to catch up on his payments once the repairs were sorted out. However, despite
this offer, I didnt think Oplo had acted unfairly when it issued the default notice to Mr T in
December 2019. By this time, the agreement had been in arrears for around four months, Mr
T having made only one payment. The default notice had set out what would happen if the
arrears werent cleared by a set date. No payment or contact was made by Mr T until after
the account was terminated due to the default. Again, Mr T had then reiterated he would not 
be paying until the repairs had been undertaken and Oplo informed him that he was liable for
the payments. I couldnt reasonably say that Oplo hadnt been able to terminate the 
agreement for Mr T having defaulted on his payments. However, at this time Oplo didnt 
seek to collect the car from Mr T and he was clear he wanted to keep it.
Id seen Oplo had continued communicating with Mr T. The repairs had been carried out in 
February 2020 and the car had been returned to Mr T. Mr T had then said to Oplo that he 
was open to discussing the way forward. Mr T said he had suggested that it would be 
acceptable to him for the hire purchase agreement to be extended by six months, but that 
Oplo had at first declined this. He said Oplo had then taken four months to respond about 
the way forward and in that time, he hadnt made any payments as he was unsure as to 
whether the car would be collected or not. He said it would be fair for these four months to 
now be removed from the outstanding balance.
The car was collected in or around August 2020 as no payments had been made by Mr T. It 
was later sold at auction and the proceeds credited to the outstanding balance. At this point 
Oplo hadnt received any payments for the car for around 12 months. Mr T had also rejected 
its offer to restructure the agreement by extending the hire purchase term by six months, re-
commence payments from June 2020 and clear the four months of arrears that had built up 
since the repairs. Looking at this, then I thought Oplo repossessing the car hadnt been 
unfair.
As I didnt think Oplo had acted unreasonably by terminating the agreement and 
repossessing the car, I wasnt going to ask it to remove the charges that had been added to 
Mr Ts account for collecting it. But I did need to consider whether it was fair that Mr T 
remained liable for the full remaining balance of the account.
Id seen that Mr T had the car in his possession for the majority of the time up until it had 
been repossessed. And he had been able to make use of it both before and after it had been 
fixed in February 2020. However, I accepted that his ability to use the car would have been 
impacted by its being faulty. So, his use of the car over the six-month period up to February 
2020 would have been spoiled and not as he had reasonably expected. But although Mr T 
had been uncertain whether he would be able to keep the car after it had been repaired, I 
didnt agree that it had been reasonable for him to pay nothing and not resume his payments 
or that he shouldnt be liable for any payments due in this period. Hed had full use of the car at that point.
Oplos offer to clear the six months of arrears and increase the term of the hire purchase
agreement by six months would have meant Mr T had remained liable for the full amount of 
the credit agreement and I thought that was unfair. This was because this arrangement 
didnt take into account that during that six-month period before the car was repaired Mr Ts 
use of it had been impaired due to its faults. So, I didnt think he should remain liable for the 
full amount of the credit agreement or that Oplos offer to extend the agreement had been 
sufficient to cover Mr Ts restricted use of the car.
So, although I thought Mr T should pay the full amount of the monthly payments that had 
been incurred from February 2020, I thought there should be a reduction of the payments 
that had been due from June 2019 until February 2020 because of the condition of the car. 
As set out above, I was satisfied that Mr Ts use of the car wouldve been limited and I 
thought a reduction of the amount that had been due each month under the agreement 
would be fair to reflect the impact of not being able to use the car as he had expected.
Id not seen any evidence that the car had been unusable by Mr T during this six-month 
period, and he had added around 3,200 miles to the cars mileage between June 2019 and 
January 2020. I therefore thought that a 50% reduction of the monthly payments due 
between June and January 2020 (eight months) should be calculated and removed from the 
outstanding balance.
I also thought that Mr T had suffered distress and inconvenience due to having to deal with 
the faulty car and liaise with Oplo in having the repairs undertaken. I thought £150 as 
compensation would be a fair and reasonable amount to reflect this.
Id seen that this agreement had been defaulted and had now been passed to a third-party 
company for collection. I thought it was likely this would have led to adverse information 
having been recorded on Mr Ts credit file. But I wasnt going to ask Oplo to remove that 
information as I was satisfied Mr T hadnt been entitled to stop making payments under the 
agreement and Oplo had acted in line with the hire purchases terms and agreements.
For the reasons given above, I was intending to partially uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Oplo didnt agree with my provisional view. It said that part of the reason for the delay in the 
repairs was that the warranty for the car had expired and it had allowed Mr T to source a 
local dealership at his convenience. It also says that it paid for the repairs, had offered to put 
six months of the arrears to the back of the agreement and pay Mr T £150 compensation. 
Oplo said this had been a fair settlement. 
Oplo also says that it doesnt accept that Mr Ts use of the car had been restricted while it 
was awaiting repairs. It says that between June 2019 and January 2020 Mr T had added 
3,200 miles to the car and when an MOT was carried out in November 2021, the mileage 
was recorded as 43,265 meaning only an additional 7,513 miles had been added from when 
the car had been supplied to Mr T in June 2019. Oplo says this indicates Mr Ts use of the 
car was low even after it had been fixed so it cant be said he wasnt able to use it as he 
wished while waiting for the repairs. It says a reduction in the monthly payments for the 
period from June 2019 to January 2020 is therefore unfair.
Mr T also disagreed with my provisional decision. He says that he had found the car to have 
faults within a very short time of acquiring it but had then found himself unable to contact the 
supplying dealer. He says he agrees he wanted to keep the car but had wanted to do so in 
a fair way and the car hadnt been working until February 2020. He says he never agreed to take an agreement with a car that didnt work.
Mr T says that he had made a fair offer to Oplo that the six months of arrears that had been 
built up should be put at the end of the agreement, but it had declined this and said the car 
would be repossessed. As the car was going to be taken, he didnt make payments. Mr T 
says Oplo had unfairly taken four months to agree to the offer he made in February and so a 
further four months of arrears had built up. He says he offered for these additional four 
months to also be put to the end of the agreement, but Oplo declined that and wanted those 
outstanding four months paid. Mr T declined this as he said it wasnt fair and the car had 
been repossessed. Mr T says he doesnt believe he should be liable for these four months 
worth of arrears as he had exhausted all avenues in having the matter resolved.
Mr T says he thinks it would now be fair for the agreement to be terminated without any 
outstanding payments still due. He says he was bullied into having the car repossessed by 
Oplo.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the evidence and my provisional conclusions, and although this will be of 
disappointment to both parties, I havent changed my view as to what would be a fair 
outcome here.
I have seen that Oplo says some of the delays were due to Mr T and his sourcing of a local 
garage to repair the car, but Mr T says the delays were due to Oplo and its refusal to pay for 
those necessary repairs. However, I dont think I need to resolve this issue as to the exact 
cause of the delay since its agreed the car had faults that needed to be repaired and that 
this took six months to sort out. Oplo has also offered compensation for the delay and the 
impact on Mr T so is accepting that the time taken to fix the car wasnt only due to Mr Ts 
actions. As the car wasnt of satisfactory quality from June 2019 until February 2020 then the 
issue for me to resolve is what would be a fair resolution for that.
Mr T says he didnt agree to have a faulty car and while I can understand his view, as set out 
above, I dont agree that the situation with the car meant that he didnt have to make any 
payments under the agreement until the car was fixed. I still think the terms and conditions of 
the hire purchase agreement applied and that he was liable for each of the monthly 
payments as they fell due. I therefore still think that Oplo didnt act unfairly when it issued the 
default notice and later terminated the agreement due to the lack of payment by Mr T. I also 
think Oplo correctly advised him as to the consequences of his non-payment.
Ive seen that Mr T strongly feels that after the car had been repaired, the delay by Oplo in 
setting out the way forward, led to the additional four months of arrears building up. But Im 
afraid I disagree that Mr T acted reasonably when he failed to resume the monthly payments 
from February 2020 after the car had been repaired. From that point he had full use of the 
car. I dont agree that the possibility the car could be repossessed meant he wasnt required 
to make payments.
Looking at the evidence, Ive seen that in February 2020 Oplo informed Mr T that it 
considered his complaint closed as the car had been repaired and returned to him. While I 
appreciate that for Mr T there remained the issue as to the accrued six months of arrears 
that he wanted solved, I think it would have been reasonable for him to commence paying 
the monthly payments as the car had been fixed. Oplo had advised him about the 
consequences of not paying.Mr T and Oplo continued to have some communication in the following four months 
regarding the payments due under the agreement. Oplo then agreed to Mr Ts original offer 
of putting the six months worth of arrears to the back of the agreement. However, by this 
point the arrears actually stood at 10 months. As I dont think Mr T had acted reasonably in 
failing to make any payments from July 2019 under the agreement and, in particular, should 
have made payments from February 2020, I dont think Oplo acted unfairly in requiring these 
four months worth of arrears cleared and the payments resumed. Mr T declined this offer 
and I think Oplo was entitled to consider that due to the lack of payments under the 
agreement for a significant period it should now repossess the car.
Even though I dont think Mr T acted reasonably in not making any payments for the car 
save for one month, I still think that adding the six months to the end of the agreement 
wasnt a fair solution even if Mr T had also suggested it. This is because I think Mr Ts use of 
the car for the period the repairs were outstanding was impacted and spoiled and that there 
should be a reduction on the monthly payments for that period to reflect this. 
Oplo says that the mileage added to the car indicated Mr T would always have made limited 
use of the car and so I cant say his use was restricted by the cars condition, but I disagree 
that the evidence its relying on is clear. Mr T used the car for an additional 3,200 miles 
between June 2019 and January 2020. The car had then travelled around a further 4,300 
miles by November 2021 when it had an MOT. However, it was repossessed from Mr T and 
sold at auction in August 2020. I have no information as to the mileage at the point of sale 
nor any information about the user of the car after the sale. It is possible the majority of 
those miles were driven by Mr T.
As set out, it isnt disputed the car was faulty and needed repairs so I think its fair to 
consider that its more likely than not that Mr T wasnt able to use the car as he would have 
wished while waiting for the repairs to be agreed and sorted out between June 2019 and 
February 2020. And while I agree with Oplo that Mr T is liable to pay for the use he had of 
the car I still think its fair that the monthly payments due in that period are reduced to reflect 
the impact of the condition of the car and I still think a 50% reduction remains fair and 
reasonable.
However, I also think that Mr T is liable for the full monthly payments from February 2020 to 
the cars repossession together with any charges incurred for taking the car back and selling 
it on.
So, I am partially upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Oplo to do the following:
Reduce the amount of the payments due between June 2019 and January 2020 by
50% and credit this amount against the outstanding balance of Mr Ts account. This
is to reflect the period in which Mr T was restricted in his ability to use the car.
Pay Mr T £150 for the inconvenience and distress caused by having to deal with the 
faulty car.
My final decision
While I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mr T, Im partially upholding his 
complaint.Im asking Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st Stop Car Finance to do the following:
Reduce the amount of the payments due between June 2019 and January 2020 by
50% and credit this amount against the outstanding balance of Mr Ts account. This
is to reflect the period in which Mr T was restricted in his ability to use the car.
Pay Mr T £150 for the inconvenience and distress caused by having to deal with the 
faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman