DRN-4493909
The complaint
Mrs W complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) provided an unfair 
settlement under her home contents cover.
What happened
Mrs W made a claim when she lost one of her diamond earrings. Admiral accepted the 
claim, but Mrs W was unhappy with the way Admiral proposed to settle the claim.
As Mrs W hadnt specified the earrings as a high-risk item on the policy, Admiral said Mrs W 
was underinsured. It said it would cap its liability in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
which was £1,000 for unspecified items.
Mrs W wanted the settlement paid in cash so she could purchase a single earring from the 
same jeweller she bought the original set from. Admiral offered a £1,000 voucher to allow 
Mrs W to purchase a replacement earring from one of its network of jewellers. However, it 
offered a cash settlement of £670 as it said thats how much the voucher cost to it. Mrs W 
wants a cash settlement for the full £1,000, as she said she cant buy a single earring from 
the jewellers in Admirals network (so would need to contribute to the cost). She said the 
£670 cash settlement isnt enough for her to buy a single earring from her own jeweller.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. Whilst he thought Admiral had applied the 
terms and conditions from the policy, he didnt think Admirals proposed settlement was fair 
as he didnt think it had put Mrs W back in the position she was in before the loss. Admiral 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 14 November 2023. I said:
From the information I have I can see Mrs W has accepted Admirals decision to apply the 
£1,000 policy limit for an unspecified item. Admiral has been fair in the application of the 
policy here, so I wont consider this point any further.
Ive checked what Admirals obligation under the policy is. It sets out how a claim should be 
settled. It states:
We will decide to either:
-repair the item
-restore the item (for example, use professional cleaners for carpets)
-pay the cost of repairing the item
-replace the item as new, or
-pay in cash or vouchers up to the amount we could repair, restore or replace the item for.
The most we will pay under any one contents section is the contents sum insured shown in 
your Home Policy Schedule, unless the particular section states a maximum limit that will 
apply. We will not reduce the sum insured after a claim, as long as all replacements and 
repairs are made.
I think the policy is clear that the choice of settlement is Admirals. By offering the voucher it 
has assumed Mrs W can replaced the earring through its network of jewellers. However, Mrs 
W can only do this if she buys a pair, which would require her to contribute to the overall cost 
as it would be over the £1,000 voucher level.
Mrs W asked for a cash settlement so she could buy the single replacement earring from her 
own jeweller where she knows a match for the original exists. Admiral said it would only offer 
a £670 cash settlement, as thats the discount it gets when it buys a voucher from its 
network of jewellers.
I dont think this is the fairest solution to put Mrs W back in the position she was in before the 
loss. Therefore, I uphold this complaint. I intend that Admiral should be given the opportunity 
to replace the lost earring on a like for like basis, as thats one of the remedies set out in the 
policy. Admiral needs to do this pro-actively rather than offering a voucher and expecting 
Mrs W to shop around. Admiral needs to find someone who will just make/provide a single 
like for like earring (so she doesnt have to contribute).
If Admiral cant source a single earring, I intend that it should cash settle the claim for the 
cost of a single like for like earring. Mrs W should provide a valid receipt for Admiral to base 
its settlement upon. The maximum cash settlement should be £1,000 in line with the policy 
terms.
Should Admiral replace the earring and Mrs W proves it is not an exact match to the original 
(in style and quality), Mrs W would be able to raise a new complaint.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs W is concerned if Admiral try to match the earring there may be further issues for her, so 
shed prefer the cash settlement of £1,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ws viewpoint, but I think if Admiral do choose to go through the route of 
replacing the missing item, it will ensure it is done professionally, as any further complaint on 
this matter is likely to be viewed rather negatively. As Admiral maybe able to do this cheaper 
than providing a cash settlement, then I think its fair to offer this opportunity.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited:
replace the lost earring on a like for like basis  it needs to do this pro-actively rather 
than offering a voucher and expecting Mrs W to shop around. Admiral needs to find 
someone who will make/provide a single like for like earring (so she doesnt have to 
contribute), orif Admiral cant source a single earring, I intend that it should cash settle the claim for 
the cost of a single like for like earring. Mrs W should provide a valid receipt for 
Admiral to base its settlement upon. The maximum cash settlement should be £1,000 
in line with the policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman