DRN-2834107
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and then closed his account. He also complains 
that Revolut didnt release money paid into his account to him. 
What happened
On 31 August 2020, two payments were made into Mr Ps account. Following this Revolut 
carried out a review of his account. Whilst it did this it blocked Mr Ps access to his account. 
Revolut completed its review and returned the money that had been paid into his account to 
the original senders of the money, rather than releasing it to Mr P.  Revolut also decided to 
close Mr Ps account.
 
Mr P complained but Revolut maintained its position, so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. And asked Mr P for some more 
information about the two payments made into his account. Mr P said the money was for 
some car parts hed sold online. He said hed had to recover the money himself from the 
buyers but couldnt provide any evidence to support what hed said. He explained that 
Revoluts actions meant he had no money to pay for food, bills and got into trouble because 
he couldnt pay a parking fine. So, he wants compensation.
 
The investigator said Revolut hadnt done anything wrong by closing and reviewing Mr Ps 
account. And sending the money back to the sources. Mr P disagreed. So, the matter has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ps account. And it was 
entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions.
I then turn to Revoluts decision to close Mr Ps account. Under the terms of the account 
Mr P held, Revolut are entitled to end the relationship. I can see that they notified Mr P of 
their decision, so I cant say Revolut have done anything wrong.
The timing of Revoluts actions was unfortunate. Mr P needed the money in his account to 
pay for a fine hed received when he discovered his account had been blocked. He was also 
relying on the money in his account to be able to meet the cost of bills and to buy food. So, I 
can understand why he found this experience with Revolut stressful and upsetting. But as 
Ive already explained financial businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various 
laws and regulations. Ive seen the evidence provided by Revolut and I can see that in 
blocking the account Revolut were following an internal process which they carried out in 
order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise. 
So, it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont 
believe Revolut acted inappropriately and treated Mr P unfairly in taking the actions it did.
I know Mr P wants Revolut to explain why it didnt let him know it had blocked his account 
and why it blocked his account in the first instance. But Revolut doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts. So, I cant say its done anything wrong 
by not giving Mr P this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that hes unhappy Revolut returned money paid into his 
account to source  in other words it sent the money back. Ive thought about whether 
Revolut acted fairly in not releasing the funds to Mr P and returning them to source.  In doing 
so, Ive looked at the information provided by Revolut and what Mr P said about the two 
payments. Ive also kept in mind that at the time Revolut gave Mr P an opportunity to show 
he was entitled to the money that was paid into his account. And Ive noted that the 
investigator has also asked him for information  including that he had to go to the trouble of 
recovering his funds from people whod bought car parts from him. But Mr P wasnt able to 
provide anything to support what hed said. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr P, but Im satisfied that hes been provided with 
opportunities both by Revolut and this service to demonstrate his entitlement to the 
outstanding funds. Having looked at the information Revolut has provided, and in the 
absence of further information, I cant conclude that Mr P is entitled to the money which was 
paid into his account. So, Im unable to conclude that Revolut acted unfairly in returning the 
money to the senders.
Finally, Mr P says hes unhappy that he could only contact Revolut via its in app chat facility. 
And says he shouldve been able to call Revolut. I can appreciate that not being able to pick 
up the phone to Revolut was frustrating for Mr P. But as the investigator has already 
explained, we are not the regulator of firms  so we cant tell them how to run their 
businesses , or how to design or implement their processes. Revolut communicates with its 
customers via an in app chat facility- thats how it runs its business  and we cant interfere 
with its commercial decisions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman