DRN-4176812
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy and the delay in settling the claim. 
For ease of reading any reference to Mulsanne includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his motor insurance policy after he was involved in an accident 
after hitting an object in the road. Mulsanne undertook an investigation into the 
circumstances surrounding the claim and eventually settled the claim. It was clear that Mr S 
car was a write off and it eventually settled the claim by paying the outstanding finance on 
the car and paying Mr S the remainder of the market value, less his excess. 
However, the delay in settling the claim left Mr S without a car and transport and as he was 
having to pay around £60 a week in taxis he chose to buy another car on finance. And went 
on to complain to Mulsanne about the delay and costs he had incurred. It said sorry but 
didnt offer anything by way of compensation, so Mr S complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. Although she accepted 
that Mulsanne was entitled to investigate the circumstances surrounding the claim she didnt 
think it was fair to take so long. And that it certainly wasnt fair for Mr S to be out of pocket 
because of the seven months delay in settling the claim. So, she suggested Mulsanne 
should pay the finance costs Mr S incurred while the claim was delayed and he was, in 
effect, paying for two cars plus £250 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
Although Mulsanne accepted it was fair to pay £250 compensation it didnt feel it should pay 
the additional costs Mr S incurred. So, the matter has been passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted by both sides that £250 compensation for the delay in dealing with the claim, 
the poor communication and the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr S is fair. So, I dont 
propose to go over this again here. Ill simply focus on the increase costs Mr S incurred 
because of the significant delay in finalising his claim and whether Mulsanne should 
reimburse him.
It was clear Mr S car was likely to be a write off given the severity of the damage caused to 
his car when he hit a large piece of debris in the road that caused the accident. And as Mr S 
was having to pay around £60 a week in taxis, as he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car or hire 
car under the policy, and faced a fair degree of inconvenience as he didnt have a car I can 
understand why he looked to purchase another car on finance. And Im sure he didnt expect 
his claim to take so long to be settled so he wasnt expecting to have to pay two finance 
payments for a prolonged period  this is because he expected to be paid out and to settle 
the outstanding finance on the car that was involved in the accident. 
Unfortunately, the claim took around seven months to be settled so he had to pay two 
finance payments every month. I agree with Mulsanne that it is entitled to undertake an 
investigation into the circumstances surrounding the claim and this can take some time. 
However, I think seven months is far too long in a case like this. And as there is no 
suggestion the claim was anything but genuine it feels harsh for Mr S to be out of pocket just 
because Mulsanne took a long time looking into the claim. Given his work and personal life 
commitments it made sense for him to take on a new finance agreement for a car in order to 
stay mobile. Plus, as Ive already outlined, Im sure Mr S expected his claim to be dealt with 
quickly and then he could have moved on without extra payments hanging over him.
So, I think it is only fair for Mulsanne to try and put Mr S back into the position he wouldve 
been but for the long delay in finalising his claim. I know Mulsanne says it doesnt cover loss 
of use, but I dont think it would be reasonable for it not to pay Mr S losses here. I say this 
as its long delay has left Mr S in the position where he was without his car for months on end 
and I dont see why he should be out of pocket as he needed the use of a car. Mr S got a 
new car under a finance agreement for a higher amount in order to stay mobile and had 
Mulsanne settled the claim within a reasonable amount of time he wouldnt be out of pocket - 
although I agree that the initial taxi costs he incurred shouldnt be covered as this was during 
the early stage of the claim and so he would always have had to pay these. 
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Mulsanne to pay Mr S finance costs for his original car for each additional 
month he had to pay his lease payment. This is because Mr S had to pay for a second car 
on a higher finance agreement for the time he was without settlement in order to stay mobile 
given Mulsannes delay. Plus £250 compensation and 8% simple interest for the time he was 
without the money from the date of each monthly payment to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Mulsanne 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S finance costs for his car during the time it delayed 
settling his claim (subject to reasonable proof). Plus 8% simple interest from the date each 
payment was due until the date of settlement and £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman