DRN-4321532
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim 
under his home emergency insurance policy following a water leak through the roof.
The term RSA includes its agents, representatives, and contractors for the purposes of this 
decision.
What happened
Mr B contacted RSA in November 2022 to say that water was leaking into the loft and lounge 
at his home from the roof above. RSA accepted the claim under the relevant home 
emergency policy. A repair was carried out by RSAs contractor some days later and three 
ridge tiles were replaced. Mr B said that he still had water leaking through the roof in 2023 
following this repair.
A complaint to this service then resulted in an investigators recommendation that RSA re-
open the claim and progress it as a matter of urgency and that previously appointed 
contractors should not be reappointed for the repair. It was also recommended that RSA pay 
compensation of £500 to recognise the upset and inconvenience caused. RSA then agreed 
for Mr B to use his own contractor. Mr Bs contractor completed the work in July 2023 at the 
cost of £1,300. The current complaint has arisen as RSA refused to reimburse Mr B as it 
considered that the invoice wasnt acceptable. The contractor failed to provide a more 
detailed breakdown of costs. RSA maintained its stance.
Mr B then referred his complaint to this service. The investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint 
and recommended that RSA reimburse the full costs together with interest. She 
recommended further compensation of £200 for the upset and inconvenience caused by 
service failings. RSA didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. The matter has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether RSA acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
declining to pay the contractors invoice supplied by Mr B. I dont consider that it has, and Ill 
explain why. In reaching this final decision, Ive also considered the parties submissions as 
summarised below.
Mr B explained that water had continued to leak into his property from the roof area where 
RSAs contractor had carried out work in December 2022. He said that RSA contacted him 
to appoint the same contractors about whom hed complained and asked them to find 
someone else. He had to chase the matter. Whilst hed been happy to engage contractors 
that RSA had used for a previous claim, it had been unable to find a competent roofer 
although they havent been able to tell us this and just left us hanging. 
RSA then recommended that Mr B engage his own contractor. He did so and said he was 
asked only to send the invoice on completion. Hed tried to be diligent by sending through 
the estimate. He considered this to be detailed and asked if the works were covered and for 
RSA to settle the cost directly with the contractor. Hed asked for a prompt response as With 
large amount of rain we had yesterday for a prolonged period of time meant that we had 
quite a large amount of water coming into the property again. RSA had said that it would 
review the invoice for reimbursement in line with the policy terms and asked him to send the 
invoice or job report and proof of payment. Mr B felt he then had to proceed because the 
contractors had availability to attend to the repair and he needed to get it sorted. He said that 
the weather forecast was for further heavy rain and wind and that thankfully it went ahead 
as we had torrential rain and extremely heavy downpours for the following 48hrs.
Mr B said hed used a reputable contractor whom hed sourced from a trade checking 
service and said he wasnt expecting reimbursement for something that was over and above 
what the policy covered. He said the repairs related to cracked and slipped tiles and were 
no different to the repairs we asked the insurer to cover back in November 2022, they were 
happy to do this at that time. He said that the situation had arisen because of the poor 
workmanship of the contractors provided last time by the insurer and not completing the job 
to stop the leaking roof as they should and as they had reported. Mr B said that water had 
been leaking into the lounge for 9 months and should have been resolved at the outset. This 
had caused stress and anxiety. Hed also had to pay a lot of money upfront which he said he 
didnt have. He said that due to contractor incompetence and failings by RSA to resolve 
what was an emergency, hed found his own solution as requested. He said that RSA hadnt 
asked for specific invoice details and had only stated their requirements after the event.
I now turn to RSAs submissions. Following the work carried out by Mr Bs contractor in July 
2023, RSA informed Mr B that it would only cover replacement or re-bedding of tiles if they 
were causing internal water damage. RSA stated that if tile re-bedding was needed due to 
slate removal, to replace a membrane, this wouldnt be covered and would be regarded as 
maintenance and not an emergency. It said it required further breakdown and understanding 
of why the work is necessary in terms of an emergency repair. It considered that the invoice 
supplied by Mr Bs contractor was inadequate and outside the scope of the relevant policy. It 
said that the policy covered temporary repairs in home emergency scenarios. It added that 
when we complete a reimbursement review, we must ensure the works, material, hours 
utilised are in adherence with the policy terms.
RSA acknowledged that engagement of a private contractor had arisen in unique 
circumstances for Mr B but said that its usual reimbursement process was a separate issue 
and was a recognised business procedure and that a reimbursement can be agreed, in full, 
partially or declined on that basis. RSA said that an itemised invoice was key to making an 
informed choice. There were items on the invoice from Mr Bs contractor that wouldnt be 
covered but as Mr Bs contractor wouldnt provide a breakdown to compare with the policy, 
there was no means to provide a figure for reimbursement. It didnt think the requirement for 
a breakdown to be unreasonable.
RSA acknowledged that Mr B didnt want the contractor that carried out the work in 
December 2022 to return, and that it had no other available contractors and agreed for Mr B 
to engage his own contractor in view of the previous difficulties. Its notes indicated that, 
ideally, an invoice would need the invoice broken down into parts and labour. It also 
acknowledged that the policy covered broken, lost, or missing tiles. The aspects it 
considered it would cover were to remove tiles, including those with holes due to wear and 
tear over time causing the water to flow into the property. It would also replace any 
damaged tiles in the process, remove moss build up from the ridge tiles and loose cement causing the leak to progress and re-bed ridge tiles to seal off any leaks to the property. It 
concluded that there was no documentary evidence to show the level and type of works. 
The starting point for this final decision is the policy wording of the relevant home emergency 
insurance policy. The policy applies to emergency situations only and doesnt cover routine 
maintenance tasks. It also says that if it accepts the claim; it will source a suitable engineer 
to attend your home and endeavour to resolve the emergency subject to certain events. 
Under the heading Roofing and what is covered, it states, We will provide assistance in an 
emergency following missing, broken or loose tiles causing internal water damage. There 
are also standard general exclusions to include damage caused by wear and tear.
In this case, the roofers invoice shows that certain works were carried out, to include tile 
removal, re-bedding and replacement. It specifically mentions that these slates are 
damaged with holes due to wear and tear over time causing the water to flow into the 
property. It also includes the cost of a new membrane and batons to seal off any future 
leaks plus moss, loose cement and waste removal. The invoice shows a total cost of £1,300.
It does also refer to a flu pipe but doesnt itemise any specific work in this respect. I note that 
RSA accepted that the policy covers removal and replacement of tiles, moss, and loose 
cement, but not the cost of a new membrane and batons. The invoice doesnt include what 
RSA would ideally have liked to see in an invoice, being a cost breakdown for each item. Im 
satisfied however that it provides documentary evidence of work the contractor carried out.
It appears that RSA accepted a claim and carried out the initial emergency repair in 
December 2022. However, this repair was unsuccessful. In the circumstances, I consider 
that the onus was then upon RSA to assist Mr B to find a swift and appropriate solution. On 
the balance of probabilities, I consider that it was reasonable for a new membrane and 
batons to have been included in the July 2023 repair, to remedy the initial failed repair. Its 
very unfortunate that Mr Bs contractor failed to provide a further itemised breakdown and 
didnt specify what, if any, flu repair works were carried out. Nevertheless, Im satisfied that 
both Mr B and the investigator made reasonable efforts to supply this. I also note that Mr B 
had sourced the contractor through a trade checking service and had no reason to consider 
that he wasnt a reputable contractor. I conclude that on the available evidence, the work 
carried out by Mr Bs contractor was directly related to an insured peril and reasonable in 
scope and should be reimbursed in full by RSA.
In terms of service issues, I consider that RSA would ordinarily have arranged for the works 
to be diligently and effectively carried out by its own contractor in December 2022. Im 
satisfied in the circumstances that it would have been fair and reasonable for RSA to have 
been very clear about its invoice requirements, in particular as Mr B had sent through his 
estimate and asked for guidance before proceeding. Whilst RSA hadnt had much time to 
respond, Im also persuaded by Mr Bs submissions as to the reason why he felt he had to 
proceed quickly, due to the weather conditions and continued ingress of water. The matter 
had also been going on for several months. On balance, I consider that Mr B had been 
proactive in trying to understand what RSA needed and that RSA hadnt provided all fair and 
reasonable support to do so.
In conclusion, I consider that the invoice did provide reasonable detail of the work carried out 
and that it was work which RSA should reasonably have covered under the policy. I can also 
appreciate that RSAs approach to this matter has left Mr B in a difficult position, as hed paid 
for repairs on the reasonable understanding that these would be covered by RSA. Im 
therefore also satisfied that there were service failings here, and that it would be appropriate 
for RSA to pay Mr B compensation of £200 to recognise these failings. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do the following: -
- reimburse Mr B for the full cost of the invoice being £1,300.
- to pay interest on the cost of repairs calculated from the date Mr B paid this amount 
to the date of settlement, at 8% a year simple interest*
- pay Mr B £200 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused.
*If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman