DRN-3792449
The complaint
Mr S complains about the actions of Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus when he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2020 Mr S was sadly the victim of a scam. He was contacted by a scammer representing 
a business Ill refer to as H. H told Mr S that they could help him recover his loss from a 
previous unregulated investment hed been involved with. 
Ultimately Mr S paid money into two accounts held with Cashplus. At the time he believed 
both to be escrow accounts in his name that H had arranged for him. Mr S paid around 
£16,000 into an account with the account number ending 071. He was also provided with 
statements for this account from H which showed around £57,000 had been credited into it. 
The second account had an account number ending 290 and in December 2020 Mr S paid 
just over £8,500 into this account. He believed this was to be held as security regarding a 
loan note for £120,000 which had also been paid into that account. 
When Mr S later realised hed been the victim of a scam, he reported this to Cashplus. 
Cashplus confirmed that the statements for both accounts that H had shared with him were 
fabricated. They also confirmed that only the account ending 290 was in Mr S name. 
Ultimately Cashplus declined to offer any refund and the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our Investigators recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she said that as Mr S had been reimbursed for the loss in relation to account ending 071 by 
the bank from which he sent the money, then there was nothing more that needed to be 
done. 
But in relation to the account ending 290, she concluded that whilst this had been opened in 
Mr S name and with his knowledge by H, he wasnt in control of it. She concluded the 
outgoing payments from that account (which represented essentially all the money Mr S had 
paid into it) were unauthorised. And as such, she recommended that Cashplus should 
reimburse Mr S. Cashplus disagreed, they believe Mr S was grossly negligent and so it is 
fair for them to hold him liable for those transactions. Mr S also highlighted that his payments 
into that account originated in a US dollar based account, he would like any refund to take 
into account the difference in exchange rates. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account ending 290
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr S isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise  unless he failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep his personalised security credentials safe. Its not in dispute 
that the outgoing payments were properly authenticated. But to be authorised, the PSRs 
also require Mr S to have consented to the payments. They also set out how consent is 
given; this isnt open to interpretation. It must be given in the form, and accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between Mr S and Cashplus. Essentially that means Mr S would have 
consented to the payment if he, or someone acting on his behalf, completed the agreed 
steps for making a transaction. 
Overall, Im persuaded neither Mr S, nor someone with his permission, completed all the 
steps required to have consented to the payments  meaning they were unauthorised. And 
these unauthorised payments caused him a loss. That means Cashplus is liable for the 
payments unless Mr S failed with intent or gross negligence. Cashplus dont seem to be 
arguing that the payments were authorised rather they believe Mr S actions amount to gross 
negligence.  
I consider it clear that Mr S didnt intentionally fail to keep his account details secure. Nor am 
I persuaded his actions showed such a significant degree of carelessness to constitute gross 
negligence. At the relevant time Mr S was in the midst of a sophisticated scam. He shared 
sufficient information and gave his permission to enable the opening of the account in his 
name. And when he received the debit card in the post, he also shared the details of this 
with H. This enabled the payments to take place. But, I dont think I can say this amounts to 
gross negligence, he was taken in by a plausible scam and believed he was dealing with a 
legitimate firm which had been incorporated on companies house for a number of years 
(something Mr S says hed checked prior to engaging with H). He therefore believed (not 
unreasonably) that he was dealing with a legitimate entity. 
The two payments in question are £3,670 on 17 December 2020 and £4,932 on 18 
December 2020. And I think it is fair and reasonable for Cashplus to refund Mr S with those 
amounts. I also think they should add 8% simple interest to be calculated from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement to compensate him for being without the use of those 
funds. 
As Ive mentioned above Mr S has said that the incoming payments to account ending 290 
originated in US Dollars and he would like to be reimbursed an equivalent amount taking into 
account the difference in exchange rate between December 2020 and now. Ive considered 
this, but the basis of me directing Cashplus to refund these payments is under the provisions 
of the PSRs due to them being unauthorised. As such, I consider the correct amount for 
Mr S to receive back to be the amount of the unauthorised payments themselves, not the 
original source and currency of his incoming payments to the account. 
Account ending 071I agree with our Investigator that as the loss in relation to the money Mr S credited to 
account ending 071 has already been refunded by another bank, there isnt a basis upon 
which I can direct Cashplus to do more on this point. 
Summary
Im satisfied that the statements Mr S was given by H were falsified and that there werent 
genuine credits (beyond those from Mr S himself) made into either account. So I dont think 
Cashplus need to do more than Ive already mentioned above. 
Mr S also mentioned his concern about the impact of this on his credit file. Ive not seen any 
evidence to support that his credit file has been negatively impacted by anything Cashplus 
did or didnt do. So again, I dont think they need to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus must pay Mr S £8,602. They 
should add to this 8% simple interest (yearly) to be calculated between the date of each of 
the unauthorised payments which make up that amount, and the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman