DRN-2022413
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because U K  Insurance Limited declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H has a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his package bank account. 
Mr H booked a skiing trip abroad in November 2019. He was due to leave the UK on the 
14 March 2020 and return on 21 March 2020. He says that when he arrived at the ski resort 
he was told everything was closing following an announcement made by the 
countrys government in response to Covid-19 (Coronavirus).
Mr H returned to the UK on the 16 March 2020. He made a claim on his travel insurance 
policy for the additional costs he incurred to get home. And he wanted money back for his 
holiday, including his unused accommodation costs. 
UKI declined Mr H's claim. In their final response letter they said Mr H had been able to use 
his accommodation and had travelled home before the UK Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) had advised against all but essential travel. 
Mr H made a complaint to our service. UKI reviewed the claim again but maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. They said that whilst the ski resort and bars were closed Mr H 
could still use his accommodation. And they reiterated that Mr H had travelled home on 
16 March 2020, which was before the FCO guidance against all but essential travel was 
announced. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr H's complaint. In summary, 
she concluded it wasn't unreasonable for UKI to decline the claim based on the relevant 
policy terms and conditions. This was because Mr H had travelled home on the 16 March 
2020 (the day before the FCO guidance changed) and he hadn't been forced to move from 
his pre-booked accommodation. However, she went on to consider whether it was fair and 
reasonable for UKI to decline the claim.
The investigator explained she didn't think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to decline
Mr H's claim. She said there was evidence that at midnight on 14 March 2020 the ski resort 
closed its bars, restaurant, ski area and nightclubs. She also took into account information 
on the ski resort's website which said that visitors didn't have to leave on 15 March 2020 but 
they should make arrangements to return to their 'main residence'. 
Taking into account the overall circumstances she thought UKI should treat Mr H's trip as 
having been effectively cut short by a natural disaster. She said UKI should pay for Mr H's 
additional travel costs, unused accommodation and the cost of unused activities and 
excursions (plus 8% simple interest). 
Mr H accepted the investigator's findings. UKI didn't agree and asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They said: 
There was simply no cover for this situation under the policy terms and conditions
It wasn't fair to assume Mr H had to leave the ski resort
The resort didn't close
There was no evidence that the local authorities had asked Mr H to leave because it 
was unsafe for him stay at the resort. 
So I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
Section eight of the Regulator's Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) sets 
out UKI's responsibilities when handling claims.
ICOBS 8.1.1 says: 
An insurer must
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); 
and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which Mr H is entitled to claim 
under the policy for cutting short his holiday. The reasons for cutting short a trip include:
FCO travel advice: Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice against 'All travel' or 
'All but Essential travel' to your destination, provided that advice came into force after 
your departure on your trip.
Natural disaster: You are forced to move from your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster. If you can't continue with your trip we will return you to your home 
area. If you can continue with your trip we will pay the extra travel and 
accommodation costs for each insured person or the costs to cut short your trip, 
whichever is lower.
The policy doesn't cover:Any claim for a natural disaster when the local or national authorities have confirmed 
that it is safe to stay. 
A natural disaster is defined as: 
Fire, Storm, lightning, landslide, avalanche, explosion, hurricane, earthquake, 
volcanic eruption, flood, tidal wave, medical epidemic or pandemic. 
Have UKI unreasonably declined Mr H's claim based on the policy terms and conditions? 
Strictly applying the policy terms and conditions, I don't think Mr H is covered for cutting his 
skiing trip short.
Mr H returned home on 16 March 2020. The FCO didn't advise against all but essential 
travel until 17 March 2020, which was after Mr H had returned home. Therefore, Mr H didn't 
cut his trip short because of FCO guidance not to travel to his destination, and there is no 
cover under this subsection of the policy. 
I think that Covid-19 does meet the policy definition of a 'natural disaster', because it 
includes medical epidemics and pandemics. The WHO declared a global pandemic on 
11 March 2020. However, Mr H could still use his accommodation as it remained available 
for him to use. So, on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, I don't think it was 
unreasonable for UKI to conclude Mr H wasn't forced to move from his pre-booked and pre-
paid accommodation because of Covid-19. 
Is it fair and reasonable for UKI to decline Mr H's claim?
I've gone on to consider whether it is fair and reasonable for UKI to decline Mr H's claim. 
In the circumstances of this case, I don't think it is. 
Mr H arrived at the ski resort on the 14 March 2020. Later that evening a wide range of 
restrictions, imposed by the national government, came into force. That included the 
closures of bars, restaurants, nightclubs, cafes and cinemas. All non-essential businesses 
and schools were also closed. 
I think Mr H's trip was effectively cut short by the impact of Covid-19 and he was, in effect, 
forced to move from his accommodation. I'm satisfied that the main purpose of Mr H's 
holiday, to ski, was entirely frustrated. He couldn't use the ski area and only essential 
services were open once the restrictions came into force. He could only use his 
accommodation. 
UKI has made the point that the resort did stay open, although they haven't made any 
detailed representations explaining why they think this is significant. At the time Mr H came 
home the ski resort's website had the following information relating to Covid-19. 
I am on vacation in [redacted] now, should I leave the resort tomorrow?
You do not have to leave the station on Sunday: make your arrangements in order to
return to your main residence
I think the information on the ski resort's website was encouraging guests to return home. 
That's consistent with Mr H's testimony to UKI and our service. I've found what Mr H has 
said to be plausible and persuasive. I think the guidance on the website acknowledges guests may have needed some time to make travel arrangements - especially bearing in 
mind the rapidly changing situation and that many tourists were likely to be leaving the area 
at the same time. 
I'm also not persuaded by UKI's argument there was an absence of local government and 
national guidance which therefore means it must have been safe for Mr H to stay in his 
accommodation. At this time the WHO had declared a global pandemic and the national 
government of the country Mr H was visiting had introduced unprecedented and wide-
ranging restrictions meaning that only essential business remained open. So this point 
doesn't change my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
Putting things right
UKI needs to put things right by paying the claim including: 
travel expenses for Mr H to return to the UK
the cost of the unused accommodation 
the cost of any unused excursions or activities
8% simple interest per annum from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I'm upholding Mr H's complaint against U K Insurance Limited and direct them to put things 
rights in the way I've outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman