DRN-3845271
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC  trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) 
sent a passcode to an unknown mobile number.
What happened
On 3 July 2022, Mr C applied online for a Tesco Clubcard PayPlus (TCPP)  provided by 
Tesco Bank. The application was successful. As part of the application process, Tesco Bank 
sent to Mr C a temporary security number (TSN) to a mobile number. I will call this mobile 
number A in this decision. Mr C didnt recognise the mobile number A and became 
concerned about a security breach. He called Tesco Bank on 7 July 2022 and closed the 
Tesco Clubcard PayPlus account.
Mr C complained. He said that the mobile number A used by Tesco Bank wasnt his. He had 
a different mobile number (B) - and that hadnt changed in the last 20 years. So  it must 
have been an error by Tesco Bank. He was very concerned that his personal details 
couldve been compromised and used by someone else as a result. He therefore closed the 
TCPP  but he said he suffered a lot of stress and anxiety over what happened and 
continued to do so.
Tesco Bank sent a final response. This said when Mr C completed the online application for 
a TCPP, a temporary security number (TSN) was sent to a mobile number (A). They couldnt 
locate the number used on any of Mr Cs profiles with Tesco Bank. They said the number 
may have been pulled across from Mr Cs Clubcard account or may have been auto filled 
from Mr Cs phone in the application process. Tesco Bank said Mr C shouldnt have any 
concerns over the security of his data /personal details as the TSN couldnt be linked to any 
of his personal information. Tesco Bank didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. He added that he didnt allow any pre-
filling of the information. Our investigator issued a first view without full information from 
Tesco Bank. This said that based on what Mr C had submitted to us, she was minded to 
accept Mr Cs version of events  that an unknown number (A) had somehow been used by 
Tesco Bank.  She said Tesco Bank should pay compensation of £100.
Mr C accepted the proposed outcome but Tesco Bank didnt. They provided more 
information  which showed that the mobile number A was held in their records alongside 
mobile number B. And as part of their processes, the TSN was sent to number A. They 
believed that the number A must have been pulled across from Mr Cs Clubcard account  
because he had to log into his Clubcard account to complete the TCPP application.
Our investigator reviewed this information and revised her view  and didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
Mr C didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint  which is my role to 
do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the concerns Mr C must have had here. As part of the online application, a TSN 
was sent to a mobile number (A) that he didnt recognise  and he was concerned that his 
personal details could be disclosed to others, causing a security breach.
I also appreciate that Mr C was disappointed to see that Tesco Bank had provided more 
information after our investigator issued her first view - which had upheld his complaint and 
awarded compensation of £100. But - it is part of our process to review evidence from both 
sides of a complaint  and as Tesco Bank had sent in the information, we must review it and 
take it into account. We must do this to reach a fair and balanced decision, based on what 
we have seen from both parties.
Mr C has said consistently that he doesnt recognise the mobile number A used by Tesco 
Bank. He says hes only had one mobile number in the last 20 years  mobile number B. He 
has shown us a screenshot of the online message that Tesco Bank sent to him. This said 
that a TSN had been sent to mobile number A. 
I looked at the online application process for TCPP. And looking at the part where a TSN is 
to be sent it says, we need to check its yousend my code to my mobile number ending in 
xxxxText Me...  Mr C would then have had to confirm the mobile number A by clicking on 
Text Me. So  here, Mr C must have confirmed the use of mobile number A. So - the fact is 
that he must have confirmed it to be the right number, and Tesco Bank wouldve reasonably 
acted on Mr Cs confirmation  and used that number.
Tesco Bank have said that the number must have been pulled across from Mr Cs Clubcard 
account. Mr C says this couldnt have been the case. But Tesco Bank have shown us that in 
their records they hold both mobile numbers A and B. And have said that as part of their 
processes, mobile number A was used for the TSN. 
I looked at the online application process  and as Tesco Bank have said, Mr C had to log in 
via his Clubcard account. And as part of the application process it says, We will use your 
Clubcard data to help pre-populate parts of this application. So  based on that, and what 
Tesco Bank have told us  Im persuaded that mobile number A must have been pulled 
across from Mr Cs Clubcard account. 
Tesco Bank have confirmed that there couldnt have been any of Mr Cs personal details 
disclosed as result of sending the TSN to mobile number A. So  Mr C should be 
encouraged that is the case.
I know Mr C will be disappointed that Im not upholding his complaint. But my role is to 
review the evidence provided by both parties to the complaint  and Im satisfied that in this 
case, based on this, Tesco Bank acted reasonably. And therefore, Im not asking them to do 
anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman