DRN-3984599
The complaint
Mr H complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt help him when he became the victim of a scam whilst 
abroad.
What happened
Mr H had an account with Monzo Bank with a debit card  hes closed the account since 
bringing this complaint given Monzo Banks response which he says was extremely poor.
In October 2022 Mr H told Monzo Bank that hed been buying drinks in a bar the previous 
evening and that there were two transactions for €350 that he didnt recognise. He says 
Monzo Bank told him to raise a fraud claim at first  which he did  and then told him that 
hed have to raise a dispute with the bar. Mr H says hed already returned home by then and 
there were no contact details for the bar online, so he wasnt able to contact them. Monzo 
Bank said it couldnt help him if he didnt. That was in November 2022. Mr H complained to 
Monzo Bank saying that hed been the victim of a scam and it wasnt helping.
Monzo Bank looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. Monzo Bank said that it 
couldnt treat the payments as fraudulent as hed made them using his card and PIN, and 
that in order to raise a chargeback it would need evidence of the amount Mr H should have 
been charged. Mr H was unhappy with Monzo Banks response and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and said that they didnt think Monzo 
Bank had acted unfairly. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. He also wanted to speak to the ombudsman before they issued their decision. His 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before issuing this decision, I spoke to Mr H to get a better understanding of his complaint. 
He told me that hed visited a bar with three of his friends, it was the last day of their holiday 
and he was responsible for buying all the rounds that evening. He also told me that he 
wasnt drinking alcohol, nor were most of his friends. I accept all of that. He told me that he 
believes he was the victim of a scam and that he believes the bar changed the amount hed 
agreed to pay after hed inserted his PIN or swiped his card a second time. He also told me 
that he accepts Monzo Bank wasnt the one that had scammed him, but that Monzo Bank 
didnt help him and instead started blaming him. He didnt think Monzo Bank had told him to 
raise a chargeback but said this had happened over six months ago so he couldnt recall 
everything.
Having looked at Mr Hs chat history with Monzo Bank, I can see that Mr H sent a dispute 
form to Monzo the morning after hed visited the bar about the two transactions hes 
complaining about. He said that he didnt recognise them and wanted to dispute them as 
fraudulent. Monzo Bank got back to Mr H quickly to say that it wasnt able to raise a dispute 
as his form contained conflicting information. Its not entirely clear what Monzo Bank was 
referring to here, but its possible that Monzo Bank was trying to work out whether these 
transactions were ones that Mr H had authorised but for which hed been charged the wrong 
amount or ones that he hadnt authorised and didnt recognise. I can, however, see that 
Monzo Bank asked Mr H for more information about what had happened. Mr H has told me 
that he flew back to the UK later on that day. He contacted Monzo Bank a couple of days 
later  having returned to the UK  asking for an update on his claim. Monzo Bank again 
asked Mr H for more information about what had happened. I can see that Mr H told Monzo 
Bank that his card hadnt gone out of his possession and said hed been tricked into 
believing that the transaction hadnt gone through when what the bar was really doing was 
typing €350 into the terminal. He said the bar had shown him the screen for small amounts 
then turned it around and changed the amounts saying it hadnt gone through. I can see that 
Monzo Bank told Mr H that it would have to raise the dispute as a chargeback as hed 
authorised the transactions so they couldnt be treated as fraudulent. Monzo Bank said that it 
would need, amongst other things, that hed contacted the merchant in attempt to resolve 
the matter and evidence showing how much he should have been charged in order to raise a 
chargeback. That was four days after Mr H had originally raised the dispute.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Monzo Bank to say that the only way it would be 
able to help Mr H would be by raising a chargeback based on what hed told them, and the 
evidence that it had about the way the two transactions were done. The bar wouldnt have 
been able to change the amount it was charging Mr H after hed put his PIN in, and Mr H had 
said that his card hadnt been out of his possession. Both transactions were, in other words, 
authorised using Mr Hs genuine card and PIN. Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable 
of Monzo Bank to say to Mr H that hed need to contact the merchant in an attempt to 
resolve the matter and  if that was unsuccessful  and evidence to show how much he 
should have been charged in order to raise a chargeback. I say that because thats the type 
of evidence that Monzo Bank would have needed in order to attempt a successful 
chargeback claim. I can see that Mr H said he didnt want to contact the bar as what had 
happened was making him feel anxious  and that he subsequently let Monzo Bank know 
that there were no contact details for the bar online so he couldnt contact them even if he 
wanted to. I can see also that Monzo Bank considered attempting a chargeback claim 
without evidence that Mr H had raised the dispute with the bar first because it could also see 
there were no contact details for the bar online, but that it didnt go ahead because Mr H had 
said he didnt have any evidence to show that the amount he should have been charged 
apart from the evidence that hed paid significantly less for the other rounds he bought. I 
dont think this was unreasonable or unfair of Monzo Bank given the way the chargeback 
scheme works.
Mr Hs card was used eight times over a period of three hours in the bar on the night in 
question. Im satisfied that each time the card was used Mr H was buying a round of drinks. 
In other words, that he bought eight rounds of drinks. I say that because each of the 
transactions was approximately a quarter of an hour apart. On six occasions he was charged 
between €20 to 30 and on two occasions he was charged €350. In other words, I can see 
that on two occasions he was charged a lot more. That might well be because Mr H was 
scammed, but the evidence suggests that he authorised these amounts because he inserted 
his PIN. Mr H told me when I spoke to him that he was in a bar and so wouldnt necessarily 
have thought to check the amount he was being asked to pay. I can understand why he said 
that, but it does make it difficult for Monzo Bank to claim these amounts back, particularly if 
he doesnt have a receipt to show how much he was meant to pay or evidence to show hes 
been charged the wrong amount. In the circumstances, I agree that this complaint isnt one 
we can uphold.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman