DRN-3977262
The complaint
Mr K complains about the customer service he received from Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited when trying to make a claim under his key protection policy.
Mr K also brought a complaint against the underwriter of his key protection policy to our 
service, which has been considered separately. In this decision, Ive only considered Mr Ks 
complaint against Hastings.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr K arranged for his lock to be replaced after losing his house keys.  
Mr K says he phoned to make a claim under his key protection policy and was advised to 
send the locksmiths invoice to Hastings. 
Mr K didnt hear back so he made another phone call. He was told his claim hadnt been 
logged previously and he was given an address to send his original receipt to.
In March 2022, Mr K made another phone call and logged a complaint as he still hadnt 
heard anything about his claim. He also raised a complaint against Hastings via an online 
complaints tool in April 2022.
Hastings responded to Mr Ks complaint in May 2022. It said it couldnt find any calls 
between Mr K and Hastings between September 2021 and March 2022. It said in the event 
of lost keys it would cover up to £500 after excess on the policy, however this was for car 
keys not home keys. It said Mr K hadnt purchased key cover ancillary with the policy.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service in June 2022. As this mainly related to his key 
claim, the complaint was set up against the insurer of his key protection policy. However,   
Mr K said he also wanted to complain about the service hed received from Hastings, so a 
separate complaint was set up.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks concerns about Hastings but didnt think his complaint 
should be upheld. She acknowledged that Hastings had incorrectly advised Mr K that he 
hadnt purchased a key protection policy. But she didnt think the impact was enough to 
recommend compensation. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigators outcome and asked for the matter to be considered by 
an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that Hastings arranged Mr Ks motor insurance along with some additional 
insurance products including key protection in May 2021. 
The policy terms for Mr Ks key protection policy say that Direct Group handles claims on 
behalf of the Insurer. This means that any complaint about the handling of Mr Ks claim 
needed to be considered against the insurer, rather than Hastings. And Mr K has already 
had a decision on his complaint against the insurer. 
A phone call to the claims helpline number given in the policy booklet is answered with 
Thank you for calling Hastings Direct key claims. So, I can understand why Mr K likely 
thought he was dealing with Hastings when he phoned to make his claim. However, Im 
satisfied that Mr Ks calls were being dealt with by an agent acting on behalf of the insurer. 
And, as explained the insurer was responsible for the handling of Mr Ks claim.
I can only consider the actions of Hastings when acting on behalf of Mr K as a broker, in this 
decision. So, the only aspect of Mr Ks complaint Ive been able to consider is the incorrect 
information Hastings provided in its response to his complaint in May 2022. As the broker 
who arranged Mr Ks insurance, I think Hastings should have realised that he had key 
protection cover that meant he could make a claim about losing his house keys. 
Ive gone on to consider the impact of the incorrect information provided by Hastings on     
Mr K. I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr K to be told something he knew wasnt right. 
However, Mr Ks main concerns are about the handling of his claim, which Hastings wasnt 
responsible for. I dont think the frustration he experienced as a result of the inaccurate 
information from Hastings is sufficient to warrant financial compensation. So, while I know 
my answer will be disappointing for Mr K, I havent found reason to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman