DRN-3506067
The complaint
Mr P complains Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined his buildings insurance 
claim.
Mr P is being represented in his complaint by Ms D, so I may refer to her where necessary 
below.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr P holds an all-risks policy which means this covers all risks of damage, unless an
exclusion applies. 
The policy says it doesnt cover any damage which happens gradually. RSA have 
applied this exclusion when declining Mr Ps claim as it says water has penetrated 
the property due to defective construction of a seal on a balcony area of the property.
It is the usual approach of this service to say that if the consumer couldnt have been 
reasonably aware of the damage
happening gradually, a fair and reasonable outcome is that the insurer cant rely on 
the exclusion.
However, this approach is only taken for standard policies which cover specific perils. 
When someone holds an all-risks policy, we have a slightly different approach. In 
these cases, we usually say a consumer shouldnt be worse off than someone with a 
standard policy, if they were both in the same situation. In other words, it would be 
unfair for an insurer to turn down a claim using the gradual damage exclusion, if the 
damage would be covered under a standard perils policy, and the consumer wasnt 
aware of the damage happening.
In Mr Ps case, theres no evidence a peril which would usually be covered
under a standard insurance policy happened here. RSA doesnt think an escape of 
water or other cause has resulted in the damage, and theres no other explanation 
offered for the damage by either party - other than defective seals. 
Therefore, Mr P isnt any worse off than someone with a standard policy in the same 
situation, as damage caused by defective seals wouldnt usually be covered. So, I 
think RSA is fairly able to rely on the gradual damage exclusion in these 
circumstances.
Ms D has pointed our investigator to previous decisions made by other ombudsmen 
in cases she feels involve similar facts. But we arent bound by our previous 
decisions and we consider each case on its own individual facts, taking into account 
what we think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman