DRN-2954737
The complaint
Mr F says 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr F took out a 60-month guarantor loan from 1Plus1 Loans for £6,000 on 1 May 2019.
The monthly repayments were £228.75 and the total amount repayable was £13,725. It
was given on the basis that Mr F had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying
the loan if he failed to.
Mr F says the lender did not complete the correct affordability checks. It didnt offer any 
options other than going to his guarantor when he couldnt make his repayments. He had to 
take out more expensive loans to cover his payments increasing his indebtedness. 
The investigator said Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She said the lenders checks 
showed it was unlikely the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr F and so it was wrong 
to give the loan to Mr F.
1Plus1 Loans disagreed. It said, in summary:
its business model is to lend to people that may not have a good credit history to 
allow that demographic access to credit when they need financial assistance;
Mr Fs bank statements showed he would have around £415 of monthly disposable 
income;
the loan was for debt consolidation and so provided Mr F with financial relief;
Mr Fs use of his overdraft was factored into its risk assessment;
the payday loans the investigator referred to were not in place at the time of the loan 
application, they do not appear on the credit check it completed indicating Mr F had 
taken steps to clear his debts; and 
Mr F did not contact it to say he had problems repaying the loan.
It asked for an ombudsmans review so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 1Plus1 Loans lent to Mr F.
Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged 1Plus1
Loans to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, 1Plus1 Loans was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr F could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 1Plus1 Loans had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for   
Mr F. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1Plus1 Loans to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether 1Plus1 Loans did what it needed to before
agreeing to lend to Mr F, and have considered the following questions:
did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Fs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown
did 1Plus1 Loans make a fair lending decision?
did 1Plus1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
1Plus1 Loans asked for some information from Mr F before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income, and his monthly living costs which it validated using national 
statistics. It added a buffer to allow for unplanned costs. It also reviewed his previous three 
months bank statements. It checked his credit file to understand his credit history and 
current monthly repayments. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt 
consolidation. From these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans concluded Mr F had monthly 
disposable income of £415 and so the loan was affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not persuaded 1Plus 1 Loans made a fair 
lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
The credit check 1Plus1 Loans carried out showed Mr F had defaulted on two accounts in 
the previous nine months, and he had missed payments on two other accounts in the 
previous six months. The lender says it took this into account, but it wasnt a reason not to 
lend given the part of the market it operates in. Whilst I agree that some adverse information 
on a credit file isnt an automatic reason not to lend, I think there were factors here that, in 
combination, ought to have concerned the lender. It could see from Mr Fs bank statements that he had other borrowing. In the month before 
he applied there were credits in from three high-cost short-term lenders. I disagree with the 
lenders conclusion that these debts not being on Mr Fs credit check indicates he had 
cleared them, and his financial position was improving. I think it is more likely they didnt 
show due to timing issues, or the fact that not all lenders report to all the credit reference 
agencies. Had the debts been repaid in full that would be evident on his bank statements. In 
addition, as the lender would have been aware at least one of these debts was an open line 
of revolving credit I would have expected it to investigate this to understand what Mr F owed 
on this product. 
Plus, the recent loans werent one-offs, the bank statements showed Mr F was using high-
cost short-term credit frequently: 12 times over the three months prior to this application, 
borrowing on average £690 a month. This suggests he was reliant on it to make ends meet 
and was most likely trapped in a cycle of borrowing to repay. So I think 1Plus 1 Loans ought 
to have realised Mr F was having problems managing his money and further borrowing 
would most likely not be sustainable. I note 1Plus 1 Loans maintains Mr F had surplus 
disposable income, but it was required to do more than check the pounds and pence 
affordability of the loan. It was obliged under CONC 5.2A.12 (R) to also ensure Mr F would 
be able to repay his loan without borrowing to do so, or it having a significant adverse impact 
on his overall financial situation. 1Plus1 Loans also argued that as the loan was going to be 
used to settle four credit cards, a mail order account and the defaulted loan it was providing 
Mr F with access to financial relief. 
Whilst I agree loans for debt consolidation can make financial sense Im not certain that was 
the case here. The largest monthly credit commitment Mr F had was the repayment of his 
defaulted loan at £213. But it is most likely Mr F would not have been paying interest on the 
defaulted debt. And from what it learnt from the credit report, 1Plus1 Loans it made its 
lending decision on the basis that Mr F had just under £3,500 of debt that he was taking on a 
debt of £13,725 to settle. So I think in this case it was harmfully extending his indebtedness 
and prolonging his reliance on high-cost credit.
It follows I think 1Plus1 Loans was wrong to lend to Mr F.
I dont think 1Plus1 Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr F. 
He says it didnt offer alternatives to calling on his guarantor when he was struggling to 
repay the loan. 1Plus1 Loans says Mr F didnt contact it to say he was having financial 
difficulties, but in any event Mr F was aware when he applied for the loan that his guarantor 
would be called on if he was unable to make payment. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr F to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him. So 1Plus 1 Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Mr F made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Fs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 1Plus1 Loans should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Fs loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding 1Plus1 Loans
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to theloan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 Loans should
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Fs complaint. 1Plus 1 Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman