DRN-3694799
The complaint
Miss D complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to close her accounts.
What happened
In December 2020, Lloyds carried out a review on Miss Ds accounts. Following this, they 
decided to close the accounts and gave Miss D 60 days notice.
Miss D didnt find out about the closure until around a month after the notice to close was 
sent  because she was away at University. Miss D appealed the closure; but Lloyds didnt 
change their mind. Miss D was concerned that Lloyds may have made a discriminatory 
decision based on her international student status.
The investigator upheld Miss Ds complaint. He reached out to Lloyds on a number of 
occasions for more information on the reasons why they closed the account so he could 
conclude whether Lloyds actions were fair. Lloyds confirmed that Miss D fell outside of their 
risk appetite  but didnt give any further reasons why. So, the investigator asked that they 
pay Miss D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Lloyds responded and agreed. Miss D didnt  she understood it was unlikely Lloyds would 
give her a reason for the closure, but she wanted an ombudsman to review things. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree Lloyds should pay compensation to Miss D. Ive explained further 
below.
Lloyds are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I can see thats whats happened 
with Miss Ds account.
In order for me to be satisfied that Lloyds actions were appropriate in the circumstances, Id 
need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and the reasons behind their decision 
to close the accounts. Lloyds hasnt shared that level of detail with our service, so I cant 
confidently say their actions were reasonable. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer  only to meet 
the account closure terms and conditions. Just the same as if Miss D decided to stop 
banking with Lloyds, she wouldnt have to explain why. Lloyds can only close accounts in 
certain circumstances and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Lloyds have 
relied on and complied with the terms and conditions when closing Miss Ds account and 
therefore, I dont think it acted unfairly and unreasonably in this regard. I appreciate Miss D 
didnt receive the letter until around a month after it was sent; but I cant reasonably hold 
Lloyds responsible for that. They sent a letter to the address they held on file  and 
therefore, they have done enough to notify Miss D of their intention to close the accounts 
and gave appropriate notice.
Miss D feels Lloyds discriminated against her when making the decision to review and close 
her accounts. This is a serious allegation Miss D has made, and one I have considered 
carefully. I can appreciate why Miss D feels this way  and thats because Lloyds havent 
given her a reason for their actions. But Ive explained above, Lloyds arent obliged to give a 
reason to Miss D  however I would expect them to share this detail with our service so we 
can be sure of their actions. In order for me to uphold the complaint on this point, Id need to 
be satisfied that Lloyds have racially discriminated against Miss D. While Lloyds hasnt 
shared sufficient information or evidence to satisfy me of the actions they took during the 
review, I cant be confident on why the decision was made. However, Id like to reassure 
Miss D that while I havent seen the evidence to dismiss this allegation, I equally havent 
seen anything to show they made a racially discriminative decision so I hope this reassures 
her at least a little. 
Putting things right
Overall, I recognise the distress this situation had on Miss D and I havent seen enough to 
satisfy me that Lloyds reasons for closing the accounts were appropriate. So, I think a 
compensation payment of £200 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should do the following:
Pay Miss D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman