DRN-4478761
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, made by a 
premium-brand car-maker and first registered in 2005. It has a large engine. It also has a 
panoramic sunroof consisting of two glass panels.
For the year from October 2022, Mr M had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Admiral. The policy schedule said that he kept the car overnight on the street.
In early December 2022, Mr M reported that there were cracks in the second panel of the 
sunroof.
Much of the complaint is about acts, omissions and communications by Admirals glass 
company. Insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for them, I may refer to them as acts, 
omissions and communications by Admiral.
By 10 January 2023, Mr M had complained to Admiral that he was still waiting for its glass 
company  and in the meantime rainwater had damaged the cars interior.
On about 11 January 2023, Admiral left Mr M a voicemail message saying that the glass 
company would fix the damage inside the car.
By a final response dated about 24 January 2023, the glass company apologised for delay 
and poor communication.
By a response dated 17 May 2023, the glass company reiterated its final response.
By a final response dated late May 2023, Admiral said that the voicemail had been incorrect. 
Admiral said it was sending Mr M a cheque for £200.00.
Mr M brought his complaint to us in June 2023. He hadnt cashed the cheque.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
the £200.00 compensation awarded to Mr M wasnt sufficient for the service hed received. 
The investigator recommended that Admiral should increase this by £100.00 to make the 
total £300.00.
Admiral accepted the investigators opinion.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The replacement sunroof panel was available from the car-maker within five days. 
The glass company shouldve completed the work in December 2022 or, at the latest, 
in January 2023. 
While the vehicle has been unusable, he has incurred insurance, road tax, on- street 
parking fees and depreciation of the vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From a vehicle check, I see that DVLA last issued a V5 registration document for the car in 
mid-November 2013. So I find that Mr M acquired the car at least that long ago.
From its MOT history, I see that the car passed a test in late October 2021 with a recorded 
mileage of 76,764 and another in late October 2022 with a recorded mileage of 77,203. So it 
had covered less than 500 miles in the intervening year. The MOT history shows that the car 
hadnt been used much since October 2021, long before Mr M contacted Admiral about the 
problem with the sunroof.
Admirals policy terms included the following:
Cover for your windscreen
If there has not been any other loss or damage, we will pay to:
 Repair or replace broken glass in your vehicles windscreen, window or sunroof
 Repair any scratches on the bodywork caused by the broken glass
If we need to replace any glass, we may use glass which is not provided by the 
vehicles manufacturer but is of a similar standard and quality. If there is no glass 
available and it cannot be reasonably sourced, we will pay the cost shown in the 
manufacturers latest price guide, together with reasonable fitting costs.
When required, we will also cover the costs to recalibrate your vehicles ADAS 
(Advanced Driver Assistance System) after the replacement of your windscreen.
Mr M already had a problem with the sunroof when he contacted Admiral. Thats why he 
contacted Admiral. 
There was cracking in the glass panel. It was winter and the car was parked outside. So 
there was an obvious and imminent risk that water would get inside the car (if it hadnt 
already).
Mr M told us the following:
I have been unable to use my car since 5 December 2022 when I first noticed the 
sunroof damage
I accept his statement that he didnt use the car after 5 December 2022.
Mr M didnt feel able to take steps to prevent water ingress (for example by putting a 
tarpaulin over the roof) even after he realised that water was damaging the car.I dont condone Admirals delay or poor communication. And I dont condone the voicemail 
message. It was incorrect. 
Mr Ms complaint form says that in late January 2023 he contacted the car-maker (or one of 
its franchised dealers) who said a replacement panel could be available within five days. So I 
dont consider that no glass was available, or that it couldnt be reasonably sourced.
I havent seen enough evidence from the car-maker to show that the part was available in 
December 2022 or January 2023 on as little as five days notice. In any event, five days 
outside in the winter would still have represented an obvious and imminent risk that water 
would get inside the car (if it hadnt already).
Mr Ms complaint form included the following:
on 18 April 2023 [the glass company] called to make an appointment for the sunroof 
repair but again would not accept responsibility for any repairs as a result of the long 
delay. I refused to make an appointment and again asked them to contact Admiral for 
instructions in accordance with Admirals voicemail in January
From that, I find that Mr M turned down the opportunity of having the glass company make 
the sunroof watertight in April or May 2023.
From its MOT history, I see that the car passed a test in late October 2023 with a recorded 
mileage of 77,250. So it had covered less than 50 miles since October 2022. And from what 
Mr M has said, those miles were covered between October 2022 and 5 December 2022.
Ive weighed all this up. I find it likely that there were other reasons why Mr M hadnt been 
using the car much. I dont consider that Admiral caused the problem with the sunroof or the 
consequence of water getting into the car. I consider that  in addition to contacting Admiral - 
Mr M shouldve acted in early December 2022 to prevent water damage or further water 
damage. 
So, notwithstanding Admirals delay and poor communication and the voicemail message, I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to hold Admiral responsible for the water damage to the car. 
It follows that I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold Admiral responsible for the costs Mr M 
incurred in keeping the car on the road while he was unable to use it. 
Putting things right
I dont under-estimate the inconvenience and upset Admirals delay and poor communication 
caused Mr M. However, Admiral tried to put things right with its cheque for £200.00. 
The investigator recommended a total of £300.00, and Admiral agreed. Im satisfied that 
£300.00 is at least as much as is fair and reasonable in line with our published guidelines. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr M  insofar as it hasnt already paid 
him - £300.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman