DRN-2912818
The complaint
Mr K has complained about a mortgage he holds (jointly with his former wife) with Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Limited (BOI). The essence of the complaint is that BOI refused an application 
he made in 2020 to transfer the mortgage into his sole name, because it considered him in 
breach of the mortgage conditions. He says the event giving rise to the alleged breach - the 
letting out of part of his property as a bed and breakfast (B&B) enterprise  was approved by 
the original lender before BOI took the mortgage over.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Mr K, jointly with his former wife, took the original mortgage out in 2000, with a lender Ill call 
BW. A further advance was granted in 2002 to fund extensive renovations to an annexe 
building. Another further advance was granted in 2004, to fund improvements in the main 
house, a replacement car, and to clear credit card debts. The mortgage was transferred to 
BOI, following BOIs takeover of BW in 2007.
In 2009, Mr Ks marriage ended, and as part of the marital agreement reached in court, the 
mortgaged property was transferred to him, and he undertook to make his best endeavours 
to remove his former wife from the mortgage. In 2010, the mortgage was switched to 
interest-only, as I understand it on the sole request of Mr K. In late 2011, BOI wrote to Mr K 
saying it had been informed he was using the property as a B&B, which was a breach of the 
mortgage conditions. Mr K replied in July 2012 explaining that hed previously obtained 
permission to do this from BW. Later that month, BOI replied saying the matter was closed.
In 2015, Mr K applied to BOI to take the mortgage over in his sole name; this was turned 
down on affordability grounds. Mr K complained at the time, and BOI issued a final response 
giving Mr K referral rights to bring his complaint to this service within six months. In 2018/19, 
Mr K enquired about new rates, a possible term extension, and again taking the mortgage 
over in his own name. These enquiries were unsuccessful, and the subject of a complaint, 
which BOI addressed in a final response dated 26 March 2020, again giving Mr K six months 
to refer the matter to us. He says that on none of these occasions was his use of the 
property as a B&B mentioned as an obstacle.
Mr K continued with his attempt to take the mortgage over in his his own name. In 
April 2020, BOI rejected it citing his use of the property as a B&B as a breach of the 
mortgage conditions. Mr K complained again, saying hed told the bank about this in a phone 
call in September 2019, and in the meantime had cleared £30,000 of credit card debt in 
order to meet affordability requirements. BOI issued a final response dated 26 June 2020, 
and Mr K came to us on 18 December 2020.
Our investigator explained to Mr K that under our rules, the complaints about the event of 
2015, 2018, 2019 and early 2020 were time-barred because Mr K had contacted us more 
than six months after BOI had issued final responses. 
The investigator also explained that two more recent issues Mr K had raised - BOIs handling 
of a subject access request (SAR) and the sending of mail to an incorrect address - wouldnt 
form part of our investigation. Theyd need to be referred to BOI first, and then passed to us 
for separate consideration once BOI had issued a final response. 
The only complaint we could deal with was the one BOI addressed in the final response of 
26 June 2020, about refusing the transfer to his name because of the breach. She didnt 
recommend that complaint be upheld. Mr K disagreed with the investigators findings and 
after a protracted exchange of views between them, the case was referred for an 
ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
On that latter point, Ive looked at what the investigator said about which parts of the 
complaint we can and cant consider. I agree that the rules only allow me to determine the 
complaint BOI addressed in its final response of 26 June 2020.
Mr K has said his dissatisfaction with the product of the SAR should be taken as part of this 
complaint, as it goes to his ability to prove his case. Generally speaking, complaints about 
the product of SARs are a matter for the Information Commissioners Office. Well only get 
involved on general customer service issues. 
In any event, its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, where we 
should get it from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have it. Im satisfied I 
have everything I need to reach a fair conclusion on this case.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems to me the case is much more straightforward than its been made 
to look. Ill explain why.
In his email of 8 August 2021 addressed for the specific attention of the reviewing 
ombudsman, Mr K says the crux of the matter is that BW, the original lender, consented to 
him using the property as a B&B, as a supplement to the original mortgage contract, and that when he explained this in detail to BOI in 2012, it closed its file. Actually, thats not the crux 
of the complaint, and Ill explain why in due course. 
But in the meantime, the essence of Mr Ks argument is that BW consented, and BOI 
accepted that BW had consented. Ive thought hard about that and Im not sure the position 
is quite that clear-cut. 
The starting position is the mortgage contract; the offer for the 2004 further advance is very 
clear when it says: It is understood that you have refurbished the outbuilding into a separate 
annexe. Please note that you should not let or sub-let any part of the property without our 
prior written consent.
(my emphasis)
Mr K has told us he agreed with BW that he could use the annexe as a B&B, but he hasnt 
provided us with evidence of this having been agreed in writing. The offer is very clear that 
any variation in the contract must be agreed in writing. If BW had agreed this in writing, Id 
have expected Mr K to have mentioned it specifically (or even enclosed a copy) in his letter 
to BOI in July 2012. Without evidence of written consent, I can only conclude that the 
underlying contract term remains as set out in the 2004 offer. 
The best I could conclude on the balance of probabilities is that BW might have agreed 
informally not to enforce the contract strictly but instead acquiesce to Mr K acting in breach 
of the condition. In effect, BW turned a blind eye to the breach, and BOI continued to do so 
in 2012, but acquiescence isnt consent. However strongly he might argue otherwise, the 
only conclusion I can draw from the available evidence is that Mr K was in breach of his 
mortgage contract all the time he was using his annexe as a B&B.
In any event, as I alluded to earlier, this isnt what the case turns on. Regardless of the view 
BW and/or BOI might have held about the use of the annexe as a B&B over the years, the 
crux of the case is that in 2020, BOI was asked to approve Mr Ks request to take over the 
mortgage in his sole name. That was an entirely new lending proposition, necessitating 
BOIs underwriters make a fresh lending decision. If it had approved the new lending 
proposition, BOI would have issued a new offer, acceptance of which would have meant a 
new contract being formed.
A fresh lending decision meant that all aspects of the application were subject to 
assessment and review. So, even if BW/BOI had varied the original mortgage contract by 
consenting to the use of the annexe as a B&B historically (and Ive explained why Im not 
convinced of that) BOI was legitimately entitled to revisit its position when assessing the 
transfer request and, if it considered it appropriate to do so, change it when making its new 
lending decision. 
This is not a new conclusion that Im explaining for the first time. Our investigator said as 
much in an email to Mr K on 24 June 2021. Unfortunately, this was just one of many emails 
they exchanged during this period, and I fear the point may have got lost in the noise. The 
fact is, nonetheless, that it is the primary reason why, on the core element of this complaint, 
the investigator was right to recommend it not be upheld. 
BOIs decision to refuse the transfer of equity due to the use of the annexe as a B&B was a 
legitimate exercise of commercial judgement. As to whether it could have made its decision 
sooner than it did, Im not so sure it unduly delayed things. Mr K has said this was never 
raised as a factor in the requests he made in 2015, 2018 or 2019; thats as maybe but we 
have no jurisdiction to look at those. The phone conversation Mr K had with BOI in September 2019 included mention of credit 
card balances; the handler said the bank might require him to clear those, but stopped short 
of saying he must as a pre-condition of applying. It seems likely to me that clearing his credit 
card debts was something Mr K chose to do, presumably to improve his chances of the 
transfer being approved.
There was also reference in the conversation to Mr K running a B&B enterprise, but not that 
the mortgaged property (or at least a part of it) was the B&B. I wouldnt expect the handler of 
that call to be trawling the account history to locate the exchange from 2012. But I would 
expect the underwriters to do so once they were presented with the formal application to 
assess. That was in April 2020, and there was no discernible delay in BOI reaching its 
decision not to approve the transfer request.
When youre as close to a situation as Mr K is here, its easy to see things from just one 
point of view. But stepping back from the minutiae and taking an overview allows me to 
consider all of the arguments and available evidence in their proper context. When I do that, 
for all of the reasons Ive set out, I cant find in Mr Ks favour, however much he thinks I 
should.
Mr K doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor BOI will 
be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might 
impose, Mr Ks right to take legal action against BOI over the subject matter of this complaint 
wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman