DRN-2470551
The complaint
Mr W says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. Mr W says 
that Mr Lender didnt make the appropriate checks before lending. So he thinks that it 
shouldnt have approved these loans. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr W between March 
and June 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate ended
1 21/03/2019 £200 3 25/05/2019
2 11/06/2019 £200 6 27/11/2019
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the checks Mr Lender had made 
were proportionate and showed the lending was affordable. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr W could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
For loan 1 Mr W needed to repay around £130 for the next three months. The was reduced 
to around £80 over six months for loan 2. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr W provided when he completed his loan 
applications. Mr W said he had a monthly income of £2,200 and he had regular outgoings, 
over the same period, of around £1,200 for loan one and £1,750 for loan 2. So the loans 
would have seemed affordable to Mr Lender. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr W mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Ws circumstances further. I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Mr Lender did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these loans were reasonable. Im not 
upholding Mr Ws complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman