DRN-2593649
The complaint
Mr D and Miss S complain that Nationwide Building Society (trading at the time as Lambeth
Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1990 with a mortgage. Nationwide cant 
confirm where or how the policy was sold, Mr D and Miss S recall it was by phone and post.
 
The policy was in Mr Ds sole name and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. They paid an annual premium for the cover.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr D and Miss S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this where there is limited information and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. 
Mr D raised a number of points in response to both the initial adjudicators view and the 
subsequent endorsement. I have considered them all carefully, but in keeping with our role 
as an informal dispute resolution service I will comment here only on those material to the 
outcome of the complaint.  
Nationwide cant confirm the exact benefit level the cover provided, but it would as a 
minimum have covered the monthly mortgage repayment.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive followed it 
here.
Im not upholding Mr D and Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D says the policy was taken out as a joint policy, but as Miss S wasnt working she wasnt 
eligible. Nationwide disagrees it was a joint policy, saying the cover was in Mr Ds sole 
name. It acknowledges the letter dated 1 April 1993 was addressed to both parties but 
explains that such correspondence was always addressed to both customers even when the 
policy provided cover for just one borrower. It has sent samples of other letters to evidence 
this and Im satisfied this is a plausible explanation.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide much documentary evidence from the time the policy
was sold. Thats not surprising as the sale took place so long ago.
Mr D and Miss S say there is no evidence the PPI was optional. And in this case there is a 
possibility the PPI was presented to Mr D and Miss S as compulsory as at the time 
Nationwide offered mortgages where PPI was mandatory to secure certain terms. So its not 
unreasonable to conclude that taking PPI could have been a condition of the mortgage that 
Mr D and Miss S wanted. Unfortunately Nationwide cant confirm this. But theres nothing 
wrong with a lender making PPI compulsory  thats a commercial decision and each lender 
can decide the terms on which its prepared to lend. 
I cant know what was discussed between Mr D and Miss S and Nationwide when the
mortgage was arranged. But I think its likely that Nationwide wouldve made Mr D and Miss 
S aware that the PPI was a compulsory part of the overall mortgage package  if indeed it 
was in this case. Typically it was listed as such on the mortgage offer in such sales. So if Mr 
D and Miss S werent happy with that, they couldve decided not to proceed with the 
borrowing  selecting either a different mortgage product or a different lender. 
If PPI wasnt compulsory with their mortgage, Nationwide says it would have provided a 
leaflet all about the PPI to allow Mr D and Miss S to make an informed choice. In this 
scenario, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude Nationwide failed to make it clear 
the PPI was optional and Mr D and Miss S didnt agree to take it out. I have thought carefully 
about Mr D and Miss Ss comments, but I also have to take into account how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what they recall. 
So, overall, I cant fairly uphold their complaint on this point.
The parties are in dispute as to whether Nationwide recommended the cover to Mr D and 
Miss S. Nationwide says it didnt, Mr D and Miss S say they bought it as it was 
recommended. However, I dont need to make a finding on this point as even if the PPI was 
recommended, on balance I think its most likely it was suitable for Mr D. I say this because:  
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr D didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the
policy when taking it out. And his circumstances dont suggest he would have been
caught by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as those 
affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr D says the combination of his sick pay, savings and family support would have 
been sufficient to maintain mortgage payments. Hes told us in the consumer 
questionnaire that he was entitled to between six- and 12-months sick pay and they 
had savings worth at least 12 months salary. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work benefits for up to 12 months. It also offered up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. This would have allowed Mr D to protect any lump sum payment 
from an employer giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mr D says he feels we are penalising him for not having statements evidencing his 
level of savings but thats not the case. I can understand he no longer has the 
paperwork given the sale was so long ago. But I cant know that they would have 
always had savings available to rely on. Plus the PPI would have allowed them to 
use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them 
intact for their future needs. Mr D said family would have helped but thats not 
suitable alternative protection, its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can 
change. 
Mr D was the sole wage earner and the borrowing was secured against their home. 
Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover would have been useful for them - in addition to their existing means - if Mr D was 
sick, had an accident or lost his job.  
The cover was reasonably priced for the likely benefit it offered and it was apparently 
affordable.
Nationwide also had to provide Mr D and Miss S with enough information to allow them to 
make an informed decision. Its possible it didnt do this but for the same reasons I think the 
policy was suitable for Mr D I dont think they would have made a difference decision with 
better information.
It follows I dont think Mr D and Miss S have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman