DRN-4077024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that QIC Europe Ltd under their home insurance policy. For 
the avoidance of doubt, the term QIC also includes its contractors, agents and 
representatives in this decision letter.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr C and Mrs C reported to QIC that a water tank in the loft had overflowed
and caused damage to a bedroom and kitchen at their home. QIC accepted the claim. Mr C
and Mrs Cs home needed to be dried out before remedial work could be carried out.
Unfortunately, the drying equipment had a faulty plug. Mr C notified QIC of this.
Mr C and Mrs C complained to QIC that it had failed to take reasonable care and felt they
should receive compensation as a result. QIC accepted that the service it provided was
below standard but felt that it had acted quickly to rectify the situation and that it had done
enough to put right any wrong.
Mr and Mrs C therefore complained to our service. The relevant investigator partly upheld
the complaint. He thought that whilst it wasnt unusual to experience a certain level of
frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with insurance claims, the services role was
not to fine or punish a business. He said that compensation would recognise the impact of
an insurers mistake on the complainant; What matters is whether the steps a business has
taken in response to an issue it is presented with, is reflective of the situation and the impact
this has had on a consumer.
The investigator concluded that QIC should pay Mr C and Mrs C £50 compensation for worry
and annoyance due to the poor service they received. He said that as the service didnt act
as a regulator: we don't direct compensation as a penalty or to act as a deterrent. He added
that when considering an award for compensation, the service looks at what has happened
rather than what could have happened.
Mr C and Mrs C remain unhappy about the outcome of their complaint. They thought that
compensation of £50 complete disregarded their safety. The matter was therefore referred to
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In March 2023, I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint as 
follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether QIC provided Mr C and Mrs C with a fair and
reasonable service and acted in an appropriate manner in response to their complaint.
Whilst it went some way to resolve issues, I dont consider that QIC acted fairly and
reasonably in all respects. In reaching my provisional determination, Ive carefully
considered the parties submissions.
Mr C and Mrs C said that QIC arranged to install a dehumidifier in their home, however the
equipment had a faulty, unsafe, and dangerous plug. They said that the plug was damaged
with an exposed fused. It had been plugged into an extension lead next to their sons bed.
Their son said he could hear sparks from the plug and Mr and Mrs C reported the matter on
the same day and moved the dehumidifier from their sons room. They sent photographic
evidence of the damaged plug.
Mr C said that it was not correct that the dehumidifier had been replaced within an hour of
QIC being notified. He said hed filed a complaint on the evening of the incident, and an
engineer contacted Mr C and Mrs C some 24 hours later to swap the unit. Mr C and Mrs C 
therefore didnt consider that QIC had been quick to respond, and they refused the
replacement.
Mr and Mrs C felt that QIC had shown disregard for the safety of customers and considered
that the faulty equipment could have injured their son or could have caused a fire in his
room. They thought that QICs engineer had walked away knowing that hed left behind
unsafe equipment whilst it should have had basic testing and sign off prior to installation. Mr
C and Mrs C thought that this type of practice was completely unacceptable. They said that
QIC should have taken more care and felt that it hadnt taken health and safety into
consideration. They wanted compensation so this kind of practice will not be repeated at
anyone else's property. Finally, they said that they paid QIC to insure their home in the
event of incidents and expected to be protected and not have their lives placed in danger.
They said theyd been cased massive inconvenience and distress.
Turning to what QIC have said about the incident, it considered that the correct steps had
been taken following Mr C and Mrs Cs discovery of the fault. It said that as soon as it was
notified, it arranged for a technician to attend within an hour to exchange the equipment.
However, it noted that Mr C and Mrs C decided that they didnt wish QIC to reinstall any
equipment and instead, they accepted a cash settlement for the cost of drying. It apologised
for this oversight and human error and for the fact that Mr C and Mrs C felt that their
expectations werent managed. It said that it took matters of this nature very seriously.
QICs case notes show that whilst Mr C and Mrs C initially declined a settlement offer for the
drying process, they subsequently accepted it, following QICs explanation that the offer
merely represented the cost of completing the drying process. The notes indicate that QIC
understood why Mr C and Mrs C didnt wish its representative to reattend.
Having considered all the evidence and submissions in this case, the reasons for my 
provisional decision to partly uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint are as follows. I agree that
the photographic evidence clearly shows that the plug of the drying equipment was badly
damaged. QIC fully accepted its error.
I agree that this was a clear error on QICs part and that the equipment shouldnt have been
installed. This could possibly have led to very serious consequences. I also appreciate Mr C
and Mrs Cs wish to ensure that QIC doesnt make the same mistake again at anyone elses
home. When they discovered the sparking and the state of the plug, its understandable that
Mr C and Mrs C experienced alarm and distress. This is particularly because the
dehumidifier had been placed in their sons bedroom and there was water damage at the
property with the added risks of faulty electrical equipment in this type of environment.
Having said this, I appreciate that QIC acknowledged its error. I note that it apologised and
acted relatively quickly to address the problem (although there is some dispute as to exactly
how quickly it acted). Clearly the incident should not have happened, however on a
provisional basis, I consider that QIC has taken the matter seriously and I trust it will
endeavour to ensure that the same or similar error isnt repeated. I also note that Mr C and
Mrs C swiftly reported the issue, and they rightly minimised the danger by removing the
equipment from their sons room.
Our service has a settled approach to the level of compensation awarded. Where a singleerror is made and remedied, a modest award of compensation may be appropriate to
recognise the impact of service failure. I appreciate that the consequences of an error here
were potentially serious, however I agree with the investigator that our service doesnt award
compensation to penalise insurers or to compensate for potential consequences.
On a provisional basis therefore, I consider that compensation of £50 may not adequately
recognise the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C and Mrs C. Ive no reason
to doubt that their son reported sparking from the plugs appliance and this would have
caused alarm. The damage to the plug was significant and obvious, and the electrical
equipment was supplied in the context of a water damaged environment. In these
circumstances, it was likely that the incident would have caused not just worry and
annoyance but would have caused alarm and distress.
In the circumstances, I provisionally conclude that an award of £150 would provide a fair and
reasonable level of compensation in this case.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Mr C and Mrs C and QIC if they had any further 
comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my request for any further comments or evidence, QIC accepted the decision 
to uphold the complaint in part and considered the level of compensation to provide a 
reasonable outcome.
Mr C and Mrs C confirmed that theyd provided all the information they had regarding this 
case and had nothing further to add. They noted that the decision made it clear that the 
equipment in question was faulty and dangerous. They said that this could have caused a 
serious injury. In the circumstances, Mr and Mrs C were happy with the decision ...as it 
highlights the bad practice of QIC Europe.
In conclusion, and subject to the points noted above, I remain satisfied that the provisional 
decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter, and I uphold Ms Gs 
complaint as follows.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint and to require
QIC Europe Ltd to pay them compensation of £150 for the alarm, distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman