DRN-3655268
The complaint
Ms C complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and the service they provided 
when she attempted to arrange a CHAPS payment following the sale of her house.
What happened
In late 2021, Ms C was in the process of selling a property in the UK. So, in October, Ms C 
contacted NWB and asked for guidance on how to transfer the proceeds of this sale to a 
broker for investment purposes.
But Ms C was unhappy shed been removed as a Premier Banking Customer. She was also 
unhappy with the advice she received from NWB during the payment process. And she was 
unhappy this led to the CHAPS payment she eventually arranged being paid to her broker a 
day late, which she felt caused her a financial loss on her investment. So, she raised a 
complaint about this. Ms C explained that to resolve her complaint, she wanted NWB to 
cover her financial loss alongside being compensated for the upset and inconvenience shed 
been caused.
NWB responded and upheld the complaint. They agreed they had failed to make Ms C 
aware her banking status had changed. They also agreed they had provided conflicting 
information, as well as failing to contact Ms C when they agreed to do so. And they accepted 
that because of this, Ms Cs CHAPS payment had been received by her broker a day later 
than planned. So, they paid Ms C a total of £283 to recognise the inconvenience this 
caused. But they didnt think they were liable for Ms Cs financial loss, as they deemed it to 
be consequential. So, they didnt think they needed to cover this. Ms C remained unhappy 
with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld. They thought the £283 NWB had paid 
Ms C was a fair off to compensate her for the inconvenience shed been caused. But they 
explained they had seen direct evidence that showed Ms C had incurred a loss of £2,992.38 
due to the day delay in her CHAPS payment being sent to her broker. And they were 
satisfied this loss wouldnt have occurred, had NWB acted fairly. So, they thought NWB 
should pay Ms C this amount to resolve the complaint.
Ms C agreed with this recommendation. But NWB didnt. They didnt think they had an 
obligation to reimburse a customers loss on investments. And they didnt think our service 
had the powers to direct this. So, as Ms C used the proceeds of her sale to invest in gold, 
they didnt agree they should cover the loss Ms C made. As NWB didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
It's not disputed that NWB acted unfairly when processing Ms Cs request for her house 
proceeds to be transferred by CHAPS to her broker. NWB have already accepted during this 
process, Ms C discovered she was no longer a Premier Banking Customer, which they 
agreed was unreasonable. They have also accepted they provided Ms C with conflicting 
advice, failed to contact her when they agreed to do so and that they failed to process her 
CHAPS payment on 23rd November 2021 as she requested. And they have accepted all of 
this led to Ms Cs CHAPS payment being processed a day later, on 24th November. As this 
isnt disputed, I havent gone into any further details about this.
Instead, my decision focuses on the main current area of dispute, which centres around 
what NWB should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think NWB should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Ms C back in the position she wouldve been in, had NWB acted 
fairly in the first place.
I think its clear Ms C has been inconvenienced by the poor service shed received from 
NWB. Its taken her substantial time and effort to speak to NWB on several occasions, due 
to the conflicting information she received. And I think she wouldve been left upset and 
frustrated when she realised NWB had failed to complete the payment on the day she 
requested. NWB have already paid Ms C £238 to recognise this impact and I think this 
payment is a fair one, which falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it not already been 
made. So, I dont think NWB need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
But crucially, the payment NWB have already made doesnt consider, or address, the 
financial loss Ms C incurred due to the delay in payment. Ive seen evidence that shows the 
investments Ms C intended to make on 23rd November wouldve cost £724,011.19. 
But due to the delay, which is accepted by NWB, Ms Cs broker didnt receive her payment 
until the following day. So, the broker couldnt make the investment on Ms Cs behalf until 
24th November. And Ive seen evidence that shows the actual cost of the investment cost Ms 
C £727,003.57.
As Ms Cs broker made the investment on the same day they received the payment from 
NWB, I think its reasonable for me to assume that, had the payment gone ahead on the 23rd 
November, the investment would also have gone ahead that day. So, Im satisfied that the 
delay caused by NWB meant Ms C had no choice but to pay an additional £2,992.38, 
meaning shes been left at a financial loss for this amount.
So, I think NWB are responsible for this financial loss. And because of this, I think NWB 
should re-imburse this amount to Ms C, to place her back in the position she wouldve been 
in, had NWB not caused the one-day delay.
I appreciate NWB believe I service doesnt hold the necessary powers to direct them to 
reimburse a financial loss thats linked to an investment. But this isnt the case. Our service 
is able make awards and payments relating to a customers financial losses, if we are 
provided with reasonable evidence of it. And I have been on this occasion.
And even so, this financial loss isnt linked to a return on an investment. So, it isnt linked the 
financial performance of the investment Ms C chose to make, which I appreciate NWB arent able to control.
Instead, this financial loss relates directly to the amount Ms C needed to pay to purchase the 
same amount of gold she intended to purchase the day before. So, while the payment was 
used to purchase an item for investment purposes, I dont think this has any impact on my 
decision, or my directed resolution.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Ms C £2,992.38 to reimburse her for the financial loss she incurred due to the 
payment delay.,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman