DRN-2813666
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Interactive Investor Services Limited 
(IISL) when he transferred his investments to their platform from another business. He says 
hes suffered a loss because he wasnt made aware that one of his holdings couldnt be 
accepted.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
IISL sent Mr S a list on 22 January 2020 with 14 of his holdings that they couldnt 
accept. His options were to either and leave the unsupported holdings with the 
previous business or sell the holdings and transfer the proceeds to IISL.
Mr S arranged for all 14 of the holdings to be sold on 3 February.
IISL have accepted that they Ieft two holdings off that list, one of which was 
subsequently transferred, but they notified Mr S on 11 March that the other holding - 
Barclays FTSE EURO 7.74% DEF AUTO stock  couldnt be accepted. He then sold 
the stock on 13 March.
I dont think its fair for IISL to say that Mr S could have retained the stock rather than 
sell it when the market was low. On the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr S would have sold the stock on 3 February when he sold the other 
14 holdings.
Therefore, Mr S should be compensated for the difference between the price he 
received when he sold the stock and what he would have received if it had been sold 
on 3 February 2020, in addition to the £200 compensation IISL have offered. 
Putting things right
IISL should put Mr S back in the position hed have been in, had he sold the Barclays FTSE 
EURO 7.74% DEF AUTO stock on 3 February 2020. They should pay Mr S the difference 
between what he received when he sold the stock and what he would have received if it had 
been sold on 3 February 2020.
They should also pay him £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered if they havent done so already. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Mr S complaint against 
Interactive Investor Services Limited should be upheld and redress paid as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman