DRN-2062817
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Ms J. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So, Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in November 1999 alongside a store credit 
account. Ms J was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Js complaint. This is because I dont think AXA set out clearly 
enough the costs and benefits of the PPI policy in the documentation that I have seen, when 
it was sold to Ms J. This means she didnt have the chance to make an informed choice. I 
think, in her circumstances, this would have made a difference to whether she took PPI. Her 
provisions that she says she held at the time (3 months sick pay, £2000 savings and an 
income protection policy), are likely to have made her think the cost of the PPI was not good 
value. 
I think Ms J has lost out as a result. AXA has questioned whether Ms J would have received 
all of the things she says she held. It suggested Ms J should provide evidence to support 
what she has told us. But I have not seen anything that would suggest Ms J had anything 
other than what she said she had. She has been consistent to our service about what she 
held throughout her complaint. Ms J has in particular, given details about the income 
protection policy that she says she held. She has informed our service of the provider, the 
type of cover and the dates she held this policy. The level of detail she has gone into has 
demonstrated how plausible her recollections are. And although AXA would like to see 
further information on this, I dont think it is reasonable to ask Ms J for this seen as the sale 
was many years ago and on what I have already concluded. So, I uphold his complaint for 
the reasons I have given above. 
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Ms J in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms J would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms J owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms J would have owed 
when she closed her account, from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms J would have owed each month without PPI     Ms J 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms J 
wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Ms J what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ms Js complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman