DRN-1954129
The complaint
Ms C complains that Esure Insurance Limited (Esure) have unfairly declined her buildings 
insurance claim.
What happened
Ms C hold a home insurance policy with Esure. Her roof tiles were damaged during a storm 
on 17 February 2020. Her property had also sustained an ingress of water. She arranged for 
the roof to be repaired, and later sough to make a claim under her policy. However, after 
sending a loss adjuster to review the damage, Esure declined the claim.
Esure said that they were unable to confirm what caused the damage to the roof as Ms C 
had already had the repairs carried out, and there were no photographs to show what 
damage had been sustained. They also declined to cover the damage caused by the ingress 
of water because the loss adjuster was of the opinion that it was not consistent with a one-off 
ingress and had instead occurred gradually over time. Unhappy with this decision, Ms C 
referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. He was satisfied that a storm had occurred, and 
that the damage to the roof as reported by Ms C was consistent with the damage that could 
occur during storm winds. As a result, he recommended that Esure pay the amount Ms C 
had spent repairing the roof tiles. However, the investigator agreed that the damage caused 
by the ingress of water was not covered under the policy. 
Esure disagreed as they said there is no evidence to show that the damage to the roof had 
been caused solely by the storm winds on 17 February 2020. As such, the matter has been 
passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ms Cs policy designates storm damage as an insured peril and states the insurer will pay for 
loss or damage to buildings and contents caused as a result of this specific peril. Both 
parties accept  or at least do not appear to dispute  that a storm did occur on 
17 February 2020 in the area the insured property is situated. What is disputed, however, is 
whether there is enough evidence to suggest that it was this storm that caused the damage 
to Ms Cs roof and subsequent ingress of water into her home.
Ms Cs policy sets out certain conditions precedent to liability, which require her to:
keep your buildings and contents in a good state of repair and do all you reasonably 
can to avoid anydamage; [and]
do all that you reasonably can to prevent further loss or damage arising as a result of 
an event covered by your policy.As such, when Ms C acted to get the roof repaired, she was complying with the conditions 
placed upon her by the policy to do all that she reasonably could to prevent further damage. 
I appreciate that neither she nor the contractor who repaired the roof took any pictures 
before repairing it. And this appears to be the main reason for Esure declining her external 
damage claim, as Ms C was unable to provide any pictures of the damage sustained to the 
rood before the repair took place. But as far as I can see, the policy does not place such a 
specific requirement on Ms C to have to supply pictures in order for her claim to be covered. 
So I do not think this is a valid reason for Esure to decline the claim.
I appreciate that it is for the policyholder to substantiate their claim. But Ms C has provided 
an invoice from the contractor she instructed to repair the roof, which shows that she was 
charged £380 for roof repairs carries [sic] out at above address following recent high winds. 
I do not think a contractor would make such a specific statement if they did not think the 
damage had likely been caused by high winds. And the work that was carried out was to 
repair damaged tiles at front of house. Such damage is consistent with the sort of damage 
a roof would sustain during high winds. 
Ms C has also said that she only had the roof fitted a couple of years prior to the incident. 
And judging by the photos, it still looked relatively new and appeared to be in good condition, 
such that it would be unlikely for it to be showing any significant signs of wear and tear. As 
such  and although there is no contemporaneous evidence here  I think there is enough 
to suggest that, on balance, the damage to Ms Cs roof was likely caused by the storm winds 
of 17 February 2020. As such, I consider that Esure have declined the external damage 
element of her claim unfairly, so they should now pay the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. 
In terms of the internal damage claim, however, I can see that the loss adjuster did not 
consider this to have been caused by the storm, as it appeared the ingress of water had 
been ongoing for some time and was simply exacerbated by the storm. And Ms C has not 
submitted any evidence that contradicts this. Therefore, this element of Ms Cs claim falls 
outside the scope of cover under the policy.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Esure should pay the external damage claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Esure Insurance Limited should now pay the 
claim in line with my instructions given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman