DRN-2095684
The complaint
Mr D complains that the redress paid by Phoenix Life Limited, following the mis-sale of a 
personal pension in 1992, has not put matters right. He wants Phoenix Life to now carry 
out a loss calculation using the Financial Conduct Authoritys redress methodology.
What happened
In 1992, a predecessor of Phoenix Life, advised Mr D to transfer his pension into a 
personal pension scheme. Mr D accepted this advice. At the time of advice, Mr D was a 
member of a defined benefit pension scheme. He was 50 years old. Hed joined the 
defined benefit scheme in 1981 and had 11 years worth of service. 
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), 
established an industry-wide review of particular pension business carried out by 
authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. This was known as the 
Pensions Review.
As part of the pension Review, in September 1997, Phoenix Life investigated the sale of       
Mr Ds personal pension. The review found that Mr D had been affected by the advice hed 
previously received and suffered some financial loss. Phoenix Life offered to pay him 
redress, calculated in line with the Pension Review methodology. Mr D accepted the offer 
of settlement in May 1998. The settlement agreement that Mr D signed said that the offer 
was made in full and final settlement and that Mr D had had the opportunity to seek advice. 
Its not clear why it took Mr D eight months to accept the offer, or whether he obtained 
advice in the interim.
Through his representative Mr D raised a complaint with Phoenix Life on 5 November 
2019. He said he had not been adequately compensated for the loss he had suffered.     
Mr Ds case is that the Pension Review offer made and paid to Mr D wasnt valid, as it 
didnt put right the shortfall he suffered. So, he says, he cant reasonably be treated as 
having accepted the offer, it being invalid.
Mr Ds representatives also say that the calculations were wrong because no ongoing 
costs were included for the personal pension. Mr D also said through his adviser that as 
the calculations were completed eight months before Mr D accepted the settlement offer, 
the calculations should be done again to reflect the difference in the time between the 
offer being made and the offer being accepted.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that as it had already carried out a 
review and made an offer to compensate Mr D, which he accepted, it was not required 
to review his case again.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. It was looked into by one of our investigators, 
who didnt uphold it. Our investigator concluded that having looked at the data that was 
used for the Pension Review calculation, no obvious mistakes were apparent. 
He said in the Pension Review documents, Phoenix Life asked for a response to its offer 
within 28 days of the date on the letter. Our investigator said hed seen no indication of 
any circumstances that would have prevented Mr D from replying sooner. So, the 
investigator concluded that the complaint about the calculations being done again due to 
this delay, wasnt one he would be taking further. Thats because the offer was based on 
the conclusion of the Pensions Review, and calculated at that time the review was 
completed.
He said Phoenix Life had provided evidence of the calculations completed at the time, 
which appeared to be in accordance with the guidelines set out by the regulator at the 
time.
Further, our investigator pointed out that it was the Final Conduct Authority (FCA) that set 
out the rules that financial businesses had to follow. And the FCA doesnt require 
businesses to re-calculate or update reviews that have already been completed in line 
with the guidance previously issued. The regulator only required businesses to carry out a 
Pension Review once, based on the assumptions in place during that exercise.
So, he concluded that it would be unfair to ask Phoenix Life to complete the review again 
and he couldnt see that it had done anything wrong in the way it had calculated the 
redress due.
Our investigator accepted that it may be the case that Mr D feels the redress paid is 
unlikely to make up for the full loss he thinks he has suffered. However, he noted that 
investment returns have not been as high as anticipated at the time of the Pension 
Review, meaning the assumptions provided by the regulator havent been sufficient to 
fully compensate some consumers.
But, he said that doesnt mean Phoenix Life had to redo the Pension Review calculations. It 
had acted in line with the guidance set out by the regulator at the time, and this was a one-
off exercise.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He said, in summary, through his representative, 
that our investigator had not properly addressed the point about ongoing cost assumptions 
not being included in the calculations. He said this couldnt be correct, as life offices didnt 
provide these services free of charge.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not going to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
As our investigator has said, in October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and 
Investment Board (SIB), established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. This was generally 
known as the Pension Review. The advice Mr D received fell into the scope of this review.
The review was set up due to concerns about unsuitable advice being given by 
businesses during this period, to transfer out of defined benefit schemes with 
guaranteed benefits, to a personal pension, where the benefits were not guaranteed and were dependent on investment returns.
If the advice given was found to be unsuitable, the regulator provided a 
process, known as the Pension Review methodology, which businesses had 
to follow in order to determine whether the consumer had suffered a loss.
If there was a loss, the methodology also calculated what the business needed 
to do in order to put the consumer back into the position they shouldve been 
in, but for the unsuitable advice.
The methodology and associated calculations were based on a number of 
actuarial assumptions. The calculations were very complex and were 
completed by a qualified actuary, using specialist software.
The Pension Review was intended to be a one-time only assessment. The redress paid 
wasnt intended to be ongoing or reviewable. Many personal pension scheme members 
who transferred out of a defined benefit scheme, and like Mr D, received redress based 
on the Pensions Review methodology, have found as they approach retirement, that the 
redress paid hasnt matched the benefits they wouldve received if they had remained in 
their defined benefit scheme.
Our role as a service is not to actuarially check the details of these Pensions Review 
calculations. We can check for any obvious errors in approach within the calculations. 
Having looked at a copy of Phoenix Lifes actuarial calculations in Mr Ds case, like our 
investigator, I cant see any obvious errors. The point raised about the personal pension 
ongoing costs Mr Ds representative raises, doesnt lead me to the conclusion that there 
must be an obvious error in this calculation.  
Mr Ds representative asks us to require Phoenix Life to redo Mr Ds calculation, 
applying the FCAs (the current regulators), updated pension redress methodology. 
However, the FCA has said that this updated methodology is only to be used where a 
business didnt previously review the transfer in accordance with the regulatory 
standards or requirements at the time. Here, I have concluded that Phoenix Life did 
seem to carry out its review in line with regulatory standards and requirements, so it 
would therefore not be fair or reasonable for me to require Phoenix Life to revisit the 
calculation.
Taking all of this into account, I cant fairly require Phoenix Life to revisit Mr Ds loss 
calculation now. I say that because I cant see that Phoenix Life did anything wrong in the 
way it carried this out. And in those circumstances, I make no award.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman