DRN-3630829
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, increased the
credit limit on her credit account which she feels was unaffordable for her at that time.
What happened
In February 2017, Tesco proactively increased the credit limit on Miss Vs Tesco credit
account from £2,100 to £4,100. In August 2021, Miss V raised a complaint with Tesco about
this credit limit increase as she felt it hadnt been affordable for her at that time. Miss V also
felt that this should have been apparent to Tesco, had they undertaken checks into her
financial position before providing the additional credit to her in 2017.
Tesco looked at Miss Vs complaint. They confirmed that they had undertaken checks into
her financial position before offering the credit limit increase to her, and they felt that there
hadnt been anything resulting from those checks that should have given them reasonable
cause to suspect that Miss V might not be able to afford that further credit.
Miss V wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it should have been apparent
to Tesco at the time that they offered the further credit to Miss V that such further credit
wouldnt, in all likelihood, have been affordable for her. So, they recommended that the
complaint be upheld on that basis.
Tesco didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 July 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer new or further credit to a customer, 
and if so, how much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, 
that before approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the 
amount of credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business 
would undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit 
being offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
I think that Tesco did that here, and I note that before providing the credit limit 
increase to Miss V they obtained information from a credit reference agency to 
refresh their understanding of Miss Vs wide financial position and also reviewed how 
Miss V had managed and maintained her Tesco credit account up to that time.
These checks seem reasonable and proportionate to me and I feel that Tesco met 
the requirements and expectations incumbent on them at that time. As such, I dont 
feel that Tesco were reasonably required to undertake any further affordability or 
credit-worthiness assessments beyond the checks described above  unless those 
checks highlighted any potential areas of concern in regard to Miss Vs financial 
position or the management of her Tesco credit account.
But I dont feel that the checks that Tesco undertook did highlight any areas of 
potential concern such that further assessment was reasonably required here. One 
reason I say this is because Miss V was maintaining her Tesco credit account within 
the credit limit and hadnt missed or been late on any monthly payments in the 
months leading up to the credit limit increase. Additionally, the information that Tesco 
obtained from a credit reference agency about Miss V showed that she didnt appear 
to have a prohibitive or excessive amount of existing debt and appeared to be 
managing her existing credit commitments without incident.
For these reasons, I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable for Tesco to have 
increased the credit limit on Miss Vs credit account in February 2017 as they did.
I note that, in their view of this complaint, our investigator has referenced Miss Vs 
current account statements for the months leading up to the credit limit increase, 
which our investigator felt demonstrated that Miss Vs financial position was such that 
she couldnt, in all likelihood, afford any further credit at that time.
However, as explained above, I dont feel that there was any requirement or 
expectation for Tesco to have reviewed Miss Vs current account statements at the 
time of the credit limit increase, and I say this because Im satisfied that the checks 
that Tesco did undertake were reasonable and proportionate, in consideration of the 
credit limit increase being provided.
And, while it can be the case that it would be expected that a credit provider would 
review a customers current account statements before providing further credit, this 
would only generally be the case when either the amount of credit being offered is 
significantly more than Tesco were providing to Miss V here, or where the checks 
that the business had already undertaken highlighted potential concerns that merited 
further investigation  which as explained above, I dont feel was the case in this 
instance.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly 
here. This is because I feel that before providing the further credit to Miss V, Tesco 
did undertake reasonable and proportionate checks into Miss Vs creditworthiness at 
that time, and Im satisfied that there wasnt anything resulting from those checks that 
should have prompted Tesco to not offer any further credit to Miss V or to undertake 
any additional checks into her financial position before offering the further credit to 
her that they did.
I realise that this wont be the provisional outcome that Miss V was wanting, but it 
follows that my provisional decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint.
It must be noted that it arriving at this outcome, Im not declaring that Miss V could 
afford the further credit at that time, but only that I feel that Tesco didnt act 
irresponsibly by providing that further credit, given Tescos understanding of Miss Vs 
financial position based on the checks and assessments that they were expected to 
undertake.In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss V and Tesco the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
In response, Miss V noted that Tesco hadnt informed her of the credit limit increase before 
implementing it and that she didnt ask for such an increase. However, its within the terms of 
the account that Tesco could proactively increase the credit limit if they felt it was reasonable 
to do so. And Tesco have confirmed that they sent a letter to Miss V before the credit limit 
was increased, advising her that the credit limit would increase and giving Miss V the 
opportunity to opt out of the increase if she didnt want to accept it. 
Of course, it may have been the case that this sent letter wasnt received by Miss V, but if 
that was the case, Miss V was still able to contact Tesco and revert the credit limit back to 
the previous level, had she wanted to do so.
Miss V has also reiterated that she feels that her financial circumstances were such at that 
time that it should have been apparent to Tesco that she wouldnt be able to afford the credit 
limit increase that they gave to her. 
I can appreciate Miss Vs position here. But as explained in my provisional decision, while I 
acknowledge that Miss V may have been in financial difficulty, I dont feel that it reasonably 
should have been apparent to Tesco that Miss V was in any financial difficulty at that time. 
Instead, I continue to be satisfied that the information about Miss V that Tesco assessed 
appeared to confirm that Miss V would be able to afford further credit. And as such I dont 
feel that Tesco acted unfairly by offering the further credit to Miss V that they did.
All of which means that it remains my position that Tesco didnt provide further credit to   
Miss V irresponsibly in this instance. And while I realise that this wont be the outcome Miss 
V was wanting, it follows from this that my final decision here is that I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I hope that Miss V will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman