DRN-3028396
The complaint
Mr F has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt pursue his claim 
against them under Section 75 (S75) Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase 
of a hotel stay.
What happened
On 12 March 2020 Mr F paid for a two-night stay at a hotel abroad. The trip was planned for 
18 and 19 March 2020 and was paid using Mr Fs RBS credit card. However, on 18 March 
Mr F received a text message and an email from the hotel explaining it had decided to shut 
with immediate effect, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
A few days later, Mr F was surprised to see that he had been charged by the hotel in full for 
the hotel stay. He tried to contact the hotel but couldnt as they were closed. So, Mr F got in 
touch with RBS and raised a dispute with them. Within his communication to RBS, Mr F 
provided the messages from the hotel confirming his stay had been cancelled.
RBS responded to Mr F the next day, asking him to provide a copy of the original invoice for 
the stay and a copy of the retailers terms and conditions to enable them to continue to 
review the matter. Mr F replied to RBS a couple of weeks later explaining that he felt the 
information hed already provided was sufficient. He raised a complaint with RBS at this 
point. 
RBS sent their final response to Mr F shortly after. They explained that they will usually 
attempt a chargeback claim before pursuing a S75 one, and that certain criteria had to be 
followed to allow a claim to be processed. As Mr F hadnt returned the requested 
information, RBS said they remained unable to take the claim forward.
Unhappy with this, Mr F raised a further complaint to RBS. Within this complaint Mr F said 
that he wasnt going to make payment towards his outstanding credit card balance. RBS 
responded again explaining their position remained unchanged and they still required Mr F 
to provide the requested information to take the claim forward. Within their response, RBS 
also expressed their concern at Mr Fs decision not to pay anything towards his credit card 
balance. The letter explained the implications to Mr F of not doing this, including the potential 
for an adverse effect on his credit file. 
While Mr F was still in dispute with RBS, he brought his complaint to our service. During her 
review, our investigator was told by RBS that they had made the decision to close Mr Fs 
account in September 2020 and write off the outstanding balance. It was confirmed that RBS 
hadnt defaulted Mr Fs credit file but had recorded missed payment markers for the months 
April  August 2020 due to Mr F not making any payment towards the outstanding balance. 
Having considered everything, our investigator felt that RBS should have raised the 
chargeback claim for Mr F at the outset. She said RBS had enough information to process 
the dispute in line with the Mastercard chargeback rules at that stage. As RBS had written 
Mr Fs credit card balance off, our investigator didnt ask them to do anything further in that 
regard. But she did say they should remove any adverse information on Mr Fs credit file, as 
had the chargeback been raised at the appropriate time its likely to have succeeded and 
Mr F wouldnt have had an outstanding balance to pay on his credit card account.
RBs accepted our investigators opinion in full. But Mr F didnt. He said he asked that his 
claim for a refund be processed under S75 from the outset, and it wasnt for RBS to choose 
whether they thought chargeback or S75 was the most appropriate route to help him get his 
money back. He also said the missed payment markers on his credit file had had an adverse 
impact on other financial commitments and overdraft facilities with his main banking 
provider. He felt our investigator hadnt addressed the crux of his complaint. To resolve 
matters, Mr F asked for an apology from RBS, all the credit reference agencies to be made 
aware of the status of the account (not just those that RBS had informed) and compensation 
of £500 for the distress and financial inconvenience he had experienced. 
As Mr F didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Fs frustrations here and I know he would like to know why RBS didnt follow 
his instructions and process a S75 claim when he notified them that his hotel stay had been 
cancelled and hed been charged the full price for it. Its clearly important to Mr F that RBS 
pursued a S75 claim rather than try to recover his money through the chargeback route. His 
reason for this is, he says, because its a legal right, whereas chargeback is not. 
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for RBS to ask for a payment Mr F made to be 
refunded. Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable prospect of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under S75 Consumer Credit Act 1974.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract of 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for S75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship and that the purchase meets a certain cash price. 
It's important to note that neither a chargeback nor S75 are a guarantee that a consumer 
recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising 
a chargeback first and then, if that is declined, to consider whether a valid claim exists under 
S75. Usually, it wont make much difference as to which route a bank follows, so long as the 
bank acts fairly and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds. 
However, here it seems it was important to Mr F that RBS pursued a S75 claim rather than 
try to recover his money through the chargeback route. 
In Mr Fs case I dont think RBS acted reasonably from the outset when they refused to 
progress Mr Fs claim with the information he had provided to them. RBS are bound by the 
scheme rules that apply. And each chargeback reason has a code attributed to it. As Mr Fs 
hotel stay had been cancelled, the code Goods or Services Not Provided would be the 
appropriate one for RBS to pursue a chargeback against. The rules set out the supporting 
documents that would be needed from Mr F to allow a chargeback claim to be brought. In 
this case, it needed to be an email, letter, message or Dispute Resolution Form that included 
a description of Mr Fs complaint in enough detail to enable all parties to understand the 
dispute. It also required a reasonably specific description of the goods/services purchased.
When Mr F first raised his dispute with RBS, he provided them with the messages he 
received from the hotel confirming its decision to shut on the day Mr F intended to arrive. So, 
Im satisfied that was enough to meet the criteria for a chargeback claim to be at least 
raised, and RBS should have done so at that point. In later correspondence with Mr F and 
our service, RBS have confirmed the nature of Mr Fs complaint and the circumstances 
surrounding it  so its clear they had enough information to understand Mr Fs reasons for 
the dispute. 
Had RBS acted as expected from the outset, I think the chargeback claim would have had a 
good chance of success, as it would have been difficult for the hotel to provide a valid 
defence to the claim when it had clearly cancelled the booking. 
As Im satisfied RBS should have pursued the chargeback claim with the information they 
had, I would normally now ask RBS to look at raising the chargeback, provided it was still 
within the time limits specified by the rules. And if its outside of those limits, I might look to 
see if RBS should reimburse Mr F for the full amount of his claim. But in this case, RBS have 
taken the decision to write off Mr Fs credit card balance following his decision not to make 
payments towards it while this dispute was ongoing. So, even though I think RBS acted 
unfairly by not raising the chargeback claim when they should have done, Im not persuaded 
that Mr F has lost out because of this. I wont be asking RBS to do anything further in this 
regard.
In relation to Mr Fs point about considering a claim under S75, Ive already set out above 
what wed normally expect to see from a bank. And here, where Mr F insisted that RBS look 
at his request for a refund under S75 rather than chargeback, I can see why hed be upset 
they didnt do that and why it might have been reasonable for RBS to follow his specific 
instruction. But as Mr F has had his money back in any event, I dont need to explore this 
further. That isnt to underestimate Mr Fs strength of feeling regarding RBS decision to want 
to proceed with a chargeback rather than a S75 claim as hed asked them to. 
Our investigator has asked RBS to remove the missed payment markers recorded on Mr Fs 
credit file as she didnt feel they were fair. RBS have agreed to do this. I accept that Mr F 
wasnt happy about what had happened in relation to his refund, but at the same time he had 
a contractual commitment to make the payments under his credit agreement. This was irrespective of any dispute on the account and RBS warned him of the consequences of 
failing to meet his commitments. However, given that had RBS raised the chargeback when 
they should have, and that it would likely have been successful, Im persuaded not to 
interfere with the removal of the adverse information, particularly given RBS have indicated 
theyre happy to do this in the particular circumstances of this case. 
But I dont agree with Mr Fs request for compensation because of the impact the missed 
payment markers have had on him. As above, Mr F had an obligation under the terms and 
conditions of his credit card account to make a minimum payment towards his outstanding 
balance each month. RBS explained this to him in their letter in June 2020, and explained 
the impact not making a payment could have on his credit file. Mr F made a conscious 
decision not to make his contractual payments to RBS while he continued to pursue his right 
to claim the money back  while that is his choice to make, that decision has in part led to 
the problems he may have faced with his main banking provider. Mr F could have avoided 
that and mitigated his losses by continuing to make his required contractual payments. 
Because of that, although Im asking RBS to remove any adverse information from Mr Fs 
credit file, I wont be asking them to pay him compensation for any problems the missed 
payment markers may have caused. 
Overall, I dont think RBS treated Mr F fairly or reasonably by not raising a chargeback claim 
when he first notified them his hotel stay had been cancelled. But as they have cleared 
Mr Fs outstanding balance already, Im satisfied that the removal of the adverse information 
on Mr Fs credit file is a fair resolution. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must:
Remove any adverse information regarding the missed payments from Mr Fs credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman