DRN-3457022
The complaint
Mr S complains about his insurer, Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) under his motor 
insurance policy. Mr Ss complaint is about the valuation of his vehicle offered by Tesco 
following their decision to treat the vehicle as a total loss following an accident.
Any reference to Tesco in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In February 2022 Mr Ss vehicle was damaged (while parked) when it was hit by another 
vehicle, so he contacted Tesco to lodge a claim. Based on his description of the damage, 
Tesco thought it might be a total loss and initially offered Mr S £1,430 as an early settlement 
for the vehicle, without it being inspected.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with the valuation so rejected it. Tesco then arranged for an engineer to 
inspect the vehicle. In their report they concluded the extent of the damage meant the 
vehicle should be treated as a total loss, as the estimated cost of repair exceeded the value 
of the vehicle (given the model, age, mileage and condition). Based on the engineers report 
and additional valuation data from industry guides, Tesco increased their offer to £2,388 
(which took account of the vehicle having a higher than average mileage for its age).
Mr S wasnt happy with Tescos revised valuation of his vehicle, saying he thought it was 
worth £3,000. So, he complained to Tesco, but they didnt uphold his complaint. In their final 
response Tesco said their valuation of £2,388 was an accurate reflection of the vehicles 
market value, so wouldnt be increasing their offer. They said the valuation was based on the 
engineers report on the damage, the vehicle being in good condition with no pre-existing 
damage. They also took account of the vehicles higher than average mileage for its age 
(reducing the valuation by £100). Tesco also referred to values from two recognised industry 
guides for similar vehicles to Mr Ss vehicle.
Mr S was unhappy at Tescos final response and complained to this service. The main 
element of his complaint was that he didnt think Tescos offer was fair as he wasnt able to 
purchase a similar vehicle at that valuation. Hed also not been given the opportunity to buy 
back his vehicle and wanted to know why it couldnt be repaired. Hed also spent money on 
a new engine for the vehicle, as well as new brakes and tyres. He felt the vehicle was worth 
£3,000 in the current market.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Tesco had followed their normal 
procedures in assessing the damage to the vehicle and declaring the vehicle a total loss. He 
also thought Tesco had offered a fair value for Mr Ss vehicle based on recognised trade 
guide values based on the make, model, age, mileage and condition of Mr Ss vehicle at the 
date of the accident. So, he wouldnt be asking Tesco to do anything further.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He was unhappy with the valuation offered by Tesco and hed also had a new 
engine fitted and spent £500 on brakes and £500 on tyres.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Tesco has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is that Tesco havent offered him a fair value for his vehicle 
(as a total loss). He thinks a fair value would be £3,000 (compared to Tescos revised offer of 
£2,388). He also says the vehicle had a new engine and hed paid £500 for tyres and £500 
for brakes. Tesco say theyve offered a fair market value for the vehicle, based on their 
engineers report and values for a similar make, model, age and condition to Mr Ss vehicle.
While the main part of Mr Ss complaint is the total loss value offered by Tesco for his 
vehicle, Ive also considered the point he raised in his complaint to this service about not 
being given the opportunity to buy back his vehicle and wanted to know why it couldnt be 
repaired. On the first point, Ive not seen anything in the information and evidence provided 
(either by Mr S or by Tesco) that the issue of Mr S having the opportunity to buy the vehicle 
arose during the handling of his claim. Theres no record in Tescos case notes of Mr S 
having asked about the possibility of purchasing the vehicle. Given this, together with the 
main issue being the total loss value offered, I dont think Tesco have acted unreasonably. If 
Mr S had wanted to buy the vehicle (or enquire about the option to buy it then it would have 
been up to him to raise the issue with Tesco. As theres no indication from what Ive seen this 
was the case, then I dont think Tesco have done anything wrong.
Mr S also asks why the vehicle couldnt be repaired. Looking at the evidence available, 
Tesco estimated the cost of repair to be £3,969 (based on their engineers assessment that 
the vehicle was a Category S total loss). This means it had sustained structural damage, 
although repairable. Given the estimated cost of repair far exceeds the value of the vehicle, I 
think it was reasonable to treat the vehicle as a total loss. In those circumstances, I think 
Tesco acted reasonably in treating the vehicle as a total loss.
Coming back to the main issue in Mr Ss complaint (the value offered for his vehicle) Ive 
considered the evidence available. Ive looked at the values Tesco provided from the two 
recognised industry guides. Those figures are £2,300 from one guide and £2,475 from the 
second guide. Tesco averaged the two figures to arrive at their offer of £2,388. The 
engineers report provides the same £2,300 figure (from the same industry guide). The 
figures are based on retail values for a vehicle in good condition. 
Having checked these valuations and used the industry guide available to this service, these 
valuations are in line with those provided by Tesco. I also think it was reasonable for Tesco 
to use an average of the two industry guide figures and to use a retail basis of valuation 
(rather than the significantly lower values on a trade or auction basis). 
Mr S also says he had a new engine installed and spent £500 on brakes and £500 on tyres. 
While I appreciate these are significant sums, I dont think they affect the valuation of his 
vehicle. Having to maintain a vehicle involves renewing parts as necessary to ensure the 
vehicle remains safe and roadworthy (such as new brakes and tyres). While I havent seen 
the reason for a new engine being fitted, I presume it was necessary for the vehicle to 
continue running  so again this would be a maintenance issue and wouldnt be reflected in 
the vehicles valuation. Ive also noted the valuations of the vehicle were based on it being in 
good condition (as recorded in the engineers report). I think thats reasonable.
 
Based on these factors, Ive concluded Tesco acted fairly and reasonably when treating Mr 
Ss vehicle to be a total loss. And that they acted reasonably in arriving at their total loss valuation. I recognise that this will be disappointing for Mr S, but I hope that Ive been able to 
explain the reasoning for my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman