DRN-3254813
The complaint
Mr S complains Cynergy Bank Limited wont reimburse transactions he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In April 2021, Mr S received a call from someone pretending to be a telecoms 
provider. He was a customer of this provider. The caller informed him his IP had 
been compromised and someone from within the bank was leaking details which was 
being investigated. He says he was shown information that his IP address was being 
used abroad and was told that if he didnt take action scammers could access his 
computer.
The scammers told Mr S theyd ordered him a new modem which would arrive in a 
few days. They asked him to log onto his online banking which he did. He says they 
also took over his computer to create a dummy account to help with their 
investigations. Mr S says information flashed up on screen, but he didnt know 
payments were being made at the time. He was then told to turn his computer off 
which he did, and they told him not to use his mobile either. It wasnt until a few days 
later, when the modem didnt arrive and when speaking with a family member, that 
he checked his account and realised a number of payments had actually been made 
from his accounts. 
Mr S complained to Cynergy who didnt uphold his complaint as he hadnt kept his 
information safe. But it did offer £20,000 as a goodwill gesture. It had also managed 
to recover £898.80, which meant Mr Ss total loss was reduced £81,211.20. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint in full, she wasnt persuaded Mr S made or 
otherwise consented to the payments and she didnt find hed acted with gross 
negligence. 
Cynergy has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman but hasnt 
provided any further arguments for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr S isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the accounts or keep his personalised security details safe.
Cynergy accepts Mr S has fallen victim to a telecom impersonation scam and so 
appears to agree he didnt complete the agreed steps to make the payments such 
that he could be considered to have consented to them. For the sake of 
completeness, although I accept Mr S may have passed on the codes required, Im 
not aware he input any payment information or account destination details that would 
have been required to complete the transactions. I therefore conclude Mr S didnt 
authorise the payments or consent to someone else making them either. It follows I 
find the payments were unauthorised.  
I dont find that Mr S failed with intent to keep his security details safe.  I accept he 
logged into his online banking and must have shared the codes required for 
payments to be made. But Mr S was following instructions he thought were 
necessary to keep his accounts and computer safe. 
I also dont find he failed with gross negligence. Mr S believed he was speaking with 
someone from a telecom company he is a customer of. His wife had recently passed 
away with her funeral having only taken place a couple of days before. I think it fair to 
say Mr S likely had other things on his mind, and probably wasnt at his most 
attentive. I dont think he would have found a call from a business he is a customer of 
that unusual. 
I accept Mr S gave the caller access to his computer and that he logged onto his 
online banking. I also accept its likely that he passed on any passcodes needed in 
order for the payments to be completed (although I understand not all of them 
required the codes).  But I dont think this means Mr S seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk and, therefore, failed with gross negligence. 
Mr S has said he isnt that experienced with technology and did what he was told to 
stop scammers accessing his computer; and it all sounded plausible to him. He has 
explained he doesnt know what an IP address is or what its for. I find this 
reasonable and plausible, a lot of people dont even if they own and use technology 
regularly. And although this happened over a couple of days, given the time scales 
Mr S was given for delivery of the new modem I dont think Mr S ought to have 
thought anything unusual about that either. Overall, I can see how Mr S was fooled 
into believing the steps he took were necessary, and I think a lot of people would 
have been fooled into doing the same, or something similar. 
I have considered that Cynergy says it sent its customers a text in March 2021, 
warning them of broadband impersonators and advising not to share account 
information or security details. I dont know if Mr S was one of those customers, 
whether he received it or read it. But even if he had, given the events which occurred 
between and that about a month had passed since the text, I dont think this is 
something that Mr S would have remembered or would have had at the forefront of 
his mind when called.
Overall, I dont think Mr Ss actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would 
have done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude Mr S isnt liable for the 
transactions in dispute and Cynergy needs to put things right  by refunding the 
losses from the unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate him for 
the time he has been without those funds. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Cynergy 
Bank Limited to:
Reimburse Mr S £81,211.20; and
Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement for the 
proportion from Mr Ss current account; and 
Add interest at the savings rate from the date of loss to the date of settlement for 
proportion from Mr Ss savings account; less
Any lawfully deductible tax on the interest. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman