DRN-4181560
The complaint
Ms G complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited declined her claim made on her 
motor insurance policy after she had an accident whilst driving her parents campervan. She 
wants it to pay the claim.
 
What happened
Ms G had an accident when she was driving her parents campervan and she made a claim 
using the driving other cars provision of her policy. But Mulsanne declined the claim as it 
said the policy didnt cover campervans. Ms G said the policy terms dont exclude 
campervans. And she was unhappy that Mulsanne hadnt asked for details about the vehicle 
before it made its decision. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy 
terms and conditions didnt exclude vans or similar vehicles from cover under the driving 
other cars provision. She thought Mulsanne should consider the claim for third party injury 
and/or property damage and pay Ms G £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Mulsanne replied that it didnt consider a van the same as a car and so it thought Ms G 
wasnt covered by the driving other cars provision. It said it couldnt list all the types of 
vehicles excluded from cover. So it relied on using the term cars. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mulsanne said that, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, Ms G wasnt covered 
for the driving the other cars policy extension because she had been driving a campervan 
and not a private motor car. It said that it doesnt provide cover for any other vehicles than 
cars. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) for Ms Gs policy states under 
restrictions on cover:
When driving other cars, your level of cover is restricted to third party injury and third party 
property damage. If your Certificate of Motor Insurance states that you have the driving other 
cars extension you can drive other cars not hired or belonging to you or your partner.
Ms Gs Certificate of Motor Insurance states:
The Policyholder may also drive a Motor Car not belonging to him/her and not hired under a 
hire purchase agreement.
And the policy document on page 18 under Section 4 Liability to other people - Driving other 
cars, states:
This cover only applies if the vehicle is a private motorcar and not a commercial vehicle, a 
motorcycle or a car used for public or private hire.
Mulsanne said the van was classed as a commercial vehicle in keeping with industry 
practice. It said a van didnt have to be used for commercial purposes to be classed as a 
commercial vehicle. 
But, from a little research, I can see that combi vans, like Ms Gs parents van, if used for 
private leisure purposes are classified by HMRC as a car for some purposes rather than as a 
commercial vehicle. And Ms G was evidently of the understanding that the vehicle was 
classed by DVLA as a car. She brought this to Mulsannes attention, but I cant see that it 
responded to this point.
And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect a consumer to understand from 
Mulsannes policy document that the combi van wasnt covered under the driving other cars 
policy extension. This is because private car isnt anywhere defined. And I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for Mulsanne to provide sufficient clear information so that a consumer 
understood the vehicles they were entitled to drive under the policy. And the exceptions 
offered under the driving other cars extension dont exclude vans, camper vans or combi 
vans. 
So, as the policy terms and conditions dont exclude Ms G from driving a campervan, then I 
think it was unfair for Mulsanne to decline Ms Gs claim. And I think it should now consider 
the claim for third-party injury and/or property damage received under the driving other cars 
policy extension. 
Mulsannes unfair rejection of the claim has caused Ms G stress and anxiety over a period of 
time. And I think Mulsanne should reasonably compensate her for this. Our Investigator 
recommended £100 compensation, and I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping 
with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Consider Ms Gs claim for third-party injury and/or property damage received under the 
driving other cars policy extension.
2. Pay Ms G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman