DRN-4091925
The complaint
Mr O complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (MISL) cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and is now seeking an outstanding balance from him. He wants a refund.
What happened
Mr O took out a telematics policy with MISL through an online comparison site. The policy 
was administered on MISLs behalf by its agent. In the application, he was asked to state his 
years of No Claims Discount (NCD). He stated that he had three years NCD, but MISL later 
found that he had two years. 
MISL asked Mr O to pay an additional premium and fee. Mr O initially wanted to cancel the 
policy, but he decided to keep the policy running. Mr O didnt fit his telematics box within the 
required time and so MISL cancelled the policy and Mr O was charged an outstanding 
premium. The debt was later passed to a collections agency. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought MISL 
was entitled to cancel the policy in keeping with its terms and conditions as Mr O hadnt fitted 
the telematics box within the time required. And he thought MISLs charges for this were 
clearly stated and so they could be reasonably applied. 
But he thought MISL hadnt acted fairly by increasing the premium and charging a fee 
because Mr O had stated his incorrect NCD years. He thought The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) should have been applied. He thought 
Mr O had made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA as MISL would have charged a 
higher premium if hed answered the NCD question correctly. 
So he thought MISL should recalculate the cancellation of the policy without the additional 
premium and fee and confirm the reduced balance to Mr O with any applicable refund. But 
he thought the other charges made were applicable. However, as CIDRA was incorrectly not 
used, he thought MISL should pay Mr O £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
MISL replied that it thought CIDRA didnt apply. It asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MISL finally cancelled Mr Os policy because he hadnt fitted his telematics box within the 
required timescale. I can see that this is explained on page 22 of the policy booklet under the 
Cancellation section. And I can see that MISL gave Mr O seven days warning of this. Im 
satisfied that Mr O hadnt complied with this policy term and condition. So I think MISL was 
entitled to cancel his policy. 
MISL then applied its cancellation charges. And I think these are clearly set out in the 
policys terms and conditions. Mr O was asked to pay an outstanding balance, but he didnt 
do this in time and so his debt was passed to a collections agency and a further fee was 
charged. Again, I think this was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, with one 
exception.
The cancellation charges were based on Mr O being charged an additional premium and a 
mid-term adjustment fee because of the incorrect NCD in his application. But I agree with the 
Investigator that this should not have been charged. Ill now explain why I think this. 
I think Mr O misrepresented his NCD years when he first took out his policy. The relevant 
law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). MISLs agent said it doesnt allow CIDRA, but I am not aware that MISL is allowed 
to exempt itself or its agents from this law. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Ive looked at the question about NCD years Mr O was asked when he completed the online 
application for his policy, and I agree he failed to take reasonable care. And I think this was a 
clear question asked by MISL through the comparison site Mr O used.
Mr O said he had three years NCD, and he said hed estimated this. But he actually had 
accrued just two years NCD. I think he could have checked this if he was unsure. And I think 
this means Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said he had three years NCD. 
MISL would evidently have still provided cover for Mr O if he had not made this 
misrepresentation as it would have charged him a higher premium. This means I am 
satisfied Mr Os misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
And I think Mr Os misrepresentation wasnt a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation as 
MISL havent shown this. I think Mr O simply didnt take sufficient care when answering the 
question. And so I think his misrepresentation was careless. 
CIDRA provides certain remedies if the qualifying misrepresentation was careless. The 
insurer can do the following if it would still have provided insurance but charged a higher 
premium, and there has been no claim.
It may change the terms of the policy and/or reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on 
any future claim. It must give notice to that effect to the consumer or may instead cancel the 
policy altogether by giving reasonable notice to the consumer. If the insurer tells the consumer it wants to change the terms of the policy and/or reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on any future claim, the consumer has the right to 
cancel the policy by giving reasonable notice to the insurer. If either party cancels the policy 
the insurer must refund any premiums paid for the cancelled cover in relation to the time left 
on the policy. 
Where the policyholder doesnt want to pay that additional premium the insurer must use the 
remedies available in CIDRA. And we often think that the fairest outcome would be for the 
insurer to give the consumer the opportunity to cancel the policy themselves, given this may 
not then lead to them having to declare in future that an insurer had cancelled a previous 
policy.
Irrespective of who cancels the policy, CIDRA says the insurer must return the unused 
premium. So we take this to mean the insurer cant deduct a cancellation fee from the 
unused premium if its cancelling a policy under CIDRA.
So, in Mr Os case, I cant see that MISL followed the remedies set out in CIDRA. MISL 
applied an additional premium and confirmed this to Mr O. I cant see that it gave Mr O the 
opportunity to cancel his policy himself. Mr O had explained that hed found cheaper cover 
elsewhere. But MISL persuaded him to keep the policy in place and to pay a higher 
premium. So I think MISL disadvantaged Mr O.  
And so I think MISL unfairly applied the additional premium and mid-term adjustment fee. 
And I think it should now recalculate Mr Os cancellation charges without these and either 
adjust the amount he owes or pay him any applicable refund. MISL said the fee was the 
responsibility of Mr Os broker. But as it was applied due to the additional premium being 
applied by MISL, I think MISL is responsible for it. 
And, as I think MISL, through its agents, hasnt correctly applied CIDRA as it should have 
done, I think it should pay Mr O £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
requiring MISL to rely on it produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Putting things right
I require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Recalculate Mr Os cancellation without the additional premium or its mid-term 
adjustment fee and reduce the outstanding balance or pay him any applicable refund.
2. Pay Mr O £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman