DRN-2939874
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as Q complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly 
declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mr W who is a director of Q brings the complaint on Qs behalf.
What happened
Q has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy with Covea. Mr W made a claim 
on that policy to cover his losses arising from his business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
compulsory closure, meant that his claim should be covered.
Mr W complained to Covea but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain infectious diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr W wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
that, while she sympathised with Mr Ws situation, she didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Mr W didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W is looking to claim on his business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining his claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mr W took out. 
Mr Ws policy included an extension which provided cover for infectious diseases. The policy 
states that it provides cover for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from:
(a) discovery of a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the 
Premises
The policy provides a definition for the term Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious 
Disease, which sets out a list of specified illnesses that are covered under the policy. 
However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
Given that COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable 
diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and which does 
now include COVID-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that subsequently 
became notifiable. In contrast, Qs policy includes a list of notifiable diseases as it was at a 
particular time. And I havent seen anything in the policy which implies that cover will be 
provided for diseases not on the list set out in the policy, including for any new diseases 
which emerge. The policy specifies that no other diseases can be added to the list without 
Coveas prior written consent, which Im satisfied has the purpose and effect of limiting cover 
to those diseases listed within the policy. 
Ive also considered whether COVID-19 might fall under Plague which is one of the 
illnesses specified in the list of illnesses covered, but I dont think it does. The policy doesnt 
define Plague, but it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious disease 
in its own right. Plague appears as a specified disease in the Governments list of notifiable 
diseases and is caused by a specific bacterium. In contrast COVID-19 is a viral infection. So, 
having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague used 
in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness Plague. 
And, whilst I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary 
definition as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would 
render the list Covea has set out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the 
specified illnesses set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as Covea has. 
 
So overall I think the fact that Plague is listed separately in the policy and is different in 
nature to COVID-19 is enough for me to determine that COVID-19 does not fall within the 
term Plague in the policy and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to treat the policy as if it did. 
There are other clauses in the policy which look like they could provide cover including 
prevention of access. However they require there to be physical damage to property in order 
for the policy to respond to a claim. And as I dont think COVID-19 caused physical damage 
to property, I dont think these terms provide cover in these circumstances.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Q. But for 
the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont 
think Covea acted unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman