DRN-2746436
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited treated him unfairly when it sold him 
an annuity in July 2014. 
What happened
Mr R held pension savings with Aviva. He had previously been assisted in managing those 
pension savings by a financial advisor.
In July 2014 Mr R telephoned Aviva to discuss taking some funds from his pension savings. 
Given the time that has passed Aviva no longer holds a recording of that telephone call. 
Following the call Aviva sent some information to Mr R about how he could make use of his 
retirement savings, by taking a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  often known as 
tax free cash) and then using the remainder of his pension savings to purchase an annuity. It 
provided Mr R with a number of choices about how that annuity could be structured.
On 14 July Mr R returned a form to Aviva indicating that he wished to take his PCLS and 
purchase an annuity. Aviva completed the transaction and the annuity was set up on the 
basis of annual payments with no annual increases.
In 2020 Mr R says that he contacted Aviva to enquire about the value of his pension savings. 
He says he was distressed to learn that all his retirement savings had been used to 
purchase the annuity in 2014. He says that he had no understanding of what he had agreed 
to at that time and simply followed the advice he was given by Aviva about how he could 
access his PCLS.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Aviva 
had provided Mr R with any advice about his purchase  just information. And he thought 
that the information Aviva had provided was sufficient for Mr R to decide whether he wanted 
to purchase the annuity. He didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mr R didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr R and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
I think I should first consider how the sale of the annuity to Mr R took place. It is 
disappointing, but entirely understandable given that the annuity sale took place more than 
seven years ago, that Aviva no longer holds recordings of its telephone conversations with 
Mr R. So I must base my assessment of how the sale took place on the documentary 
evidence from the time and what I know of Avivas normal sales processes.
The information pack that was sent to Mr R explained at the outset that whilst Aviva was 
there to help consumers understand the content of the pack, it couldnt provide any advice 
on the best retirement option. And later in the pack Aviva encouraged consumers to seek 
help from a financial advisor before making any decisions.
It is clear that Mr R had a previous relationship with a financial advisor. And the form that he 
completed and returned to Aviva noted that advisors details  as a result I understand that 
Aviva paid commission for the sale of the annuity to the advisor. But Im not persuaded that 
the advisor provided any recommendation to Mr R to purchase the annuity  in fact I think it 
likely that, had he been asked, the advisor would have recommended that Mr R not proceed.
I have seen a transcript of a series of text messages between Mr R and his financial advisor. 
Initially, on 10 July, Mr R told his advisor that he wasnt going to take a lump sum from his 
pension. But on 29 July, after receiving confirmation of the annuity purchase from Aviva, the 
financial advisor got back in touch with Mr R. Mr R said that he had changed his mind 
because he needed £5,000 from his pension, and after speaking to Aviva it had explained 
the way to do it. The financial advisor told Mr R that Aviva wasnt able to give him advice, 
and that he might now have fixed himself into something that wouldnt allow him to take any 
further tax-free cash and would mean he paid more income tax. He said he could have 
helped Mr R with the decision.
So on balance I think the decision to proceed with taking the annuity was taken entirely by 
Mr R without advice from either Aviva or his financial advisor. That means that it was Mr Rs 
responsibility to ensure that purchasing the annuity was in his best financial interests  that 
was not the responsibility of Aviva. But Aviva did need to provide Mr R with information that 
was clear and not misleading on which he could make his choice.
Again, without the call recordings, I cannot be sure how the discussions between Mr R and 
Aviva proceeded. But I do have a copy of the information pack that was sent to Mr R 
following the call. Of course, it would be entirely reasonable that Mr R might not have read 
that pack in detail if he thought he had understood all hed been told on the call. But I think it 
unlikely that Aviva wouldnt have set out in some detail on the call the options that were open 
to Mr R. Generally those sorts of calls were heavily scripted to ensure that Aviva complied 
with its regulatory obligations to provide information, but not advice, on a consumers 
retirement options.
I think that the information pack that was sent to Mr R was clear. It explained the current 
value of his retirement savings. And it detailed how Mr R could use those savings to take a 
PCLS and purchase an annuity. I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that Mr R 
should have thought he could receive those benefits, and keep the majority of his retirement 
savings to be used at a later date. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr R. But I think that Aviva provided 
him with sufficient information about the choice he was making before it sold him the annuity 
in July 2014. I dont think that Aviva did anything wrong, and so it doesnt need to pay any 
compensation to Mr R.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman