DRN-3537340
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Any reference to Great Lakes includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr L has a LEI policy which is underwritten by Great Lakes. He wanted to use it to 
pursue a claim against his former employer.
Following discussions of redundancy, Mr L sought legal advice from Great Lakes as 
to whether he should accept a settlement offer from his employer. 
Great Lakes referred Mr L to its panel solicitors. Mr L says he was told it was up to 
him whether he accepted the settlement, but that if he chose not to, Great Lakes 
would be able to support him in a claim against his employer for unfair dismissal. 
Mr L declined the settlement offer. He was later made redundant. 
Mr L contacted Great Lakes again  this time for assistance with a claim for unfair 
dismissal. 
Great Lakes referred the matter to its solicitor who said that whilst there were 
reasonable prospects of success, it thought there was risk of a substantial Polkey 
discount being applied which meant the claim shouldnt be pursued.
Mr L disagreed and so Great Lakes referred it to another solicitor. That solicitor felt 
the Polkey discount was unlikely to apply as the conversations about whether Mr L 
wanted to accept the settlement offer took place without prejudice. 
Prior to all this, Mr L had sought the advice of his own solicitor when the settlement 
offer was first made. Great Lakes said the evidence shows the offer was reasonable 
and Mr L only refused it because he didnt want the termination of his employment to 
impact the purchase of a house. 
Great Lakes declined the claim on the basis that Mr L had rejected a reasonable offer 
and had therefore, prejudiced its position. 
Mr L disagreed and so brought a complaint to this service. 
An Investigator looked at it. She said it was clear Mr L and his solicitor had been 
corresponding about the settlement and that it appeared the only reason Mr L didnt 
want to accept it was because of the impact it would have on a house purchase. So, 
she thought it was reasonable for Great Lakes to deem it more likely than not that        
Mr L was advised the settlement was acceptable and it was reasonable for                   
Great Lakes to decline the claim on this basis.
Mr L remained unhappy and said that Great Lakes had taken too long to reach its 
outcome, had held on to his policy excess for an unreasonable amount of time and 
hadnt assisted him now that he was representing himself. 
The investigator considered these points, but her opinion remained the same and 
she didnt think compensation was warranted.
 Mr L asked for a final decision and so, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. So, Ill only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That 
may mean I dont comment on everything Mr L has said but I have read and 
considered everything provided by all parties.
Its not necessary or appropriate to get entangled in the legal advice received from 
Great Lakes two solicitors. This advice relates to the merits of the legal claim, and 
not whether the claim should be covered by the insurer.  
Instead, the crux of this complaint concerns whether the facts of Mr Ls claim meet 
the terms of the LEI policy. 
The policy document states Your insurance does not cover professional fees and/or 
defendants costs for claims incurred after you, we or the administrator have received 
professional advice to accept a proposal. Part 36 offer or Part 36 payment made in 
settlement of your claim, or professional advice not to pursue or continue to pursue 
your claim be legal proceedings. 
Great Lakes has said Mr L declined an offer having received legal advice it was 
reasonable and so hes prejudiced its position. 
Ive looked at the available evidence and can see that in an email to his employer   
Mr L explains he would be in a position to move forward with the settlement were it 
not for the fact that accepting it would have ramifications for an anticipated house 
move. 
Whilst I accept the email doesnt explicitly say Mr L had received legal advice to say 
the offer was reasonable, given there is reference to his solicitor and it says I think 
we are in a position to move forward, I think its more likely than not that he did 
receive legal advice that the settlement offer was reasonable. 
Mr L has said that his solicitor advised him that to move forward with the settlement 
offer his employer would need to delay the termination of his contract by putting him 
on gardening leave. He argues therefore, the offer wasnt reasonable given the 
termination date of his contract was still outstanding. However, Mr Ls solicitor has 
told us that it doesnt have a record of this advice having been given. And as Mr L 
hasnt been able to provide evidence to show this, Im not persuaded by this 
argument.I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling in respect of this complaint and how stressful 
this time has been for him. But on the evidence, Im not persuaded Great Lakes has 
been unreasonable in relying on the above exclusion to decline his claim. 
Turning to other complaint issues - Mr L has said Great Lakes told him it would 
support him if he were to reject the offer and make a claim for unfair dismissal. So, 
he thinks his claim should be covered as he feels hes been given incorrect 
information which hes acted on to his detriment.
Ive looked at the call notes from the relevant call. Whilst it does say Mr L could 
contact Great Lakes again (should he be made redundant and want advice), it 
doesnt comment on whether a future claim for unfair dismissal would be covered. 
So, I dont agree that any certainty was given in respect of this and I dont think its 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to provide legal cover on this basis. 
Mr L complains Great Lakes kept hold of his policy excess for an unreasonable 
amount of time and took too long to reach an outcome. Whilst I appreciate it was a 
financially pressured time for Mr L, as Great Lakes were still looking into whether it 
would cover the claim, I dont think it retained his excess for an unreasonable amount 
of time. Nor have I seen anything to suggest it caused avoidable delays in reaching 
an outcome.
Mr L has also said hes never been provided with a copy of the policy. And hes 
indicated it is unfair for Great Lakes to rely on its exclusion (quoted above) as a 
result. It would seem unusual to me for a policyholder to have not been sent policy 
documentation when the policy was first taken out. Nor have I seen that this was 
raised with Great Lakes prior to the matter reaching our Service.
However, even if I agreed this was the case and Great Lakes had failed to provide a 
copy of the policy as hes alleged, it wouldnt change my mind in this case. I say this 
as Im satisfied the exclusion is common across policies of this nature and has been 
applied fairly. So, Im not persuaded it wouldve made a difference in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman