DRN-3428653
The complaint
Mrs A complains Starling Bank Limited (Starling) unfairly closed her business account 
shortly after agreeing to open it. 
To put things right, Mrs A wants Starling to give her the reason it did this, and for it to pay 
substantive compensation for financial loss, distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs A opened a business account with Starling. The next day Starling 
informed her it had now decided to close her account. Unhappy with what Starling had done, 
Mrs A complained. 
In its response, Starling said it was unable to elaborate on its decision to close the account 
as its to do with an internal policy which it isnt required to disclose. Starling offered Mrs A 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs A referred her complaint to this service. She says she was told by Starlings customer 
services department the trading activities of her company fell outside its current risk appetite 
and it couldnt give her any more information about its internal policies. Amongst other 
things, Mrs A says shes been discriminated against. 
Mrs A says she wants Starling to pay £2,000 as compensation for financial loss, the extreme 
stress and anxiety she has suffered, and for poor customer service.    
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. In summary, they found: 
- Starling does have the right to review an account at any time without providing any 
prior notice 
- Starling is under no obligation to provide an explanation as to why it closed Mrs As 
account 
- Its generally for banks to decide whether they want to provide, or continue to 
provide, banking facilities to its customer
- Starling acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions. Because of this it does 
not need to pay Mrs A any compensation
- Its for Mrs A to decide if she wants to accept Starlings increased offer of £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill  
In response, Mrs A said she wanted Starlings unfair policies reviewed and for the 
Investigator to affirm they were aware of the reason for the account closure. 
Our Investigator said any potential review of Starlings internal policies needs to be raised 
with the Regulator. They also said they had seen Starlings rationale for closing the account 
but cant disclose it to Mrs A. And that Financial business have a certain amount of 
commercial discretion regarding their internal policies and risk appetite. 
Mrs A remained unhappy but said she would accept Starlings offer of £200. Our Investigator 
confirmed the correct amount Starling had offered as a gesture of goodwill was £100. Mrs A 
said she wanted £200. 
Starling say it has now withdrawn the offer as the complaint wasnt upheld.  Mrs A said 
Starling had offered £200, our Investigator said that wasnt the case. 
As Mrs A remains unhappy, the matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill 
explain why. 
As a regulated business, Starling has several obligations it must adhere to. It also has a 
certain amount of commercial discretion regarding its internal policies and risk appetite. That 
in turn means it can choose who it has a customer relationship with. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. I 
note the account had only opened the day before it was opened, so it was still in the 
cooling-off period. This generally allows either party to cancel the account easily in that 
period. 
Mrs A would like Starling to give her a detailed explanation of why it closed her account. I 
note she has told us - as above - what Starling said to her about this. I have been given 
information by Starling which shows why it closed the account. Having seen this Im satisfied 
its acted fairly and reasonably when closing the account.  
I am under no obligation Im aware of which means I must disclose this to Mrs A. And, I 
cannot add anything more to what she has already been told by Starling and our Investigator 
about this. 
So, this means Starling hasnt done anything wrong. Because of that, I will not be making 
any award for compensation to Mrs A either for any financial loss suffered, or any trouble 
and upset. I also dont think Starling have provided her with poor customer service. 
Mrs A feels she has been discriminated against. Having closely reviewed the information 
provided to me, and knowing Starlings reasons, Im satisfied she hasnt been treated 
differently to anybody else. 
Lastly, I can confirm, and for the sake of completeness, that Starling made an offer of £100 - 
£50 in its final response and an additional £50 when the complaint was referred on to this 
service. I note Starling has withdrawn this gesture of goodwill offer. Starling is entitled to do 
this. And, as Im not upholding the complaint, I dont need to say anything else on the matter. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman