DRN-4035400
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money he 
lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr F was looking into cryptocurrency when he was contacted via social media about an 
investment opportunity. Unfortunately, the person who contacted him appears to have been 
a scammer.
Mr F was persuaded to send funds from his NatWest account to purchase cryptocurrency  
which he then sent on to the scammer, thinking his funds were being invested. This took 
place from early November 2020 to late July 2021. 
When Mr F ran into difficulties trying to withdraw from the alleged trading platform, he 
realised it was a scam. He reported this to NatWest in 2022, including raising a complaint 
when it wouldnt agree to refund him. It paid Mr F £40 compensation for some service issues 
when he reported the scam  but maintained it wasnt liable for his loss.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr F referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things and decided not to uphold the complaint. She didnt think the payments 
ought to have been flagged as suspicious, so didnt think NatWest had missed an 
opportunity to prevent the scam. 
As Mr F has appealed the investigators outcome, Im making the final decision on how his 
complaint should be resolved. He says the velocity of the payments was unusual, and they 
fell outside his risk appetite, so NatWest should have contacted him to ask what he was 
doing. And if it had, his responses would have made it clear he was being scammed  
preventing his loss. He has also explained he was going through a difficult time which left 
him more susceptible to the scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, NatWest is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. It doesnt appear to be in dispute that 
Mr F was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the payments. So the starting 
position is that he is liable for them. 
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for NatWest to look into the 
wider circumstances surrounding a transaction  due to it presenting an identifiable fraud 
risk. Such as when the payment is significantly unusual or uncharacteristic compared to the 
normal use of the account. 
Ive considered whether NatWest should have taken further steps when processing these 
scam payments. It has told us its records dont capture whether any were identified as 
suspicious. Having carefully considered Mr Fs account activity, Im not persuaded NatWest 
is at fault for (likely) processing the payments in line with Mr Fs authorised instructions 
without completing further checks.
As our investigator has pointed out, the payment amounts were generally for fairly low 
amounts  and were in keeping with other genuine payments Mr F was making. The highest 
individual payment was under £2,000, which didnt look particularly unusual for Mr F given 
his account activity by that point.
Mr F says he hadnt made any cryptocurrency payments before the scam, so the payments 
should have flagged as being outside his risk appetite. But as our investigator has pointed 
out, he had made other trading and gambling transactions, including some for similar 
amounts. So Im not persuaded the payment destinations looked significantly 
uncharacteristic. 
As our investigator has explained, the fact the payments went to cryptocurrency merchants 
didnt mean they were necessarily part of a scam. Customers can, and do, make payments 
to legitimate cryptocurrency merchants without that being part of a wider scam. The 
fraudulent loss was only incurred when Mr F moved the funds on from the platforms they 
were sent to from NatWest. And as he continued to make these payments over an extended 
period, they came to form part of the expected pattern of account activity. 
I have considered Mr Fs argument that the velocity of the payments ought to have prompted 
concern. But I agree with the investigator that, overall, the level of transactions didnt look 
particularly suspicious  bearing in mind the amount they came to overall. The highest 
turnover/amount he sent was three £1,000 payments in one day. They were going to a 
merchant he had previously paid. And I dont think the overall amount appeared to be a 
significant enough departure from previous payments to warrant additional checks. 
Im very sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Mr F was in at the time of this scam. I 
cant see this was something NatWest was on notice of, so it doesnt affect the level of 
service I would expect it to provide. Overall, for the reasons I have given, Im not persuaded 
NatWest ought to have identified these payments as presenting a fraud risk. I therefore dont 
consider it fair to hold it liable for the fraudulent losses incurred  as I dont think they are 
attributable to any failings by NatWest.
Mr F is unhappy with the service NatWest provided when he reported the scam in 2022. I 
appreciate that added to his frustrations. But I cant see it had a material impact on his loss. 
The funds were sent to genuine cryptocurrency merchants, who loaded the funds to Mr Fs 
accounts, exchanged them into cryptocurrency, and sent them on to the scammers  as 
requested by Mr F. As the funds were moved on, and the merchants paid directly provided 
the service Mr F was expecting, it wouldnt have been able to successfully recall or charge 
back the payments. 
While I dont think any service issues when Mr F reported the scam affected his loss, I 
appreciate it added to his frustrations. I agree with our investigator that the £40 
compensation NatWest has already paid fairly reflects any unnecessary upset this caused. 
So I dont think NatWest needs to take further action to put things right. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman