DRN-3428278
The complaint
This complaint is about a mostly interest-only mortgage Mr and Mrs O hold with 
Lloyds Bank PLC. Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the advice they received historically 
about various endowment, protection and pension policies alongside the mortgage. 
Theyre also concerned about how Lloyds is treating them regarding the end of the 
mortgage term, and how they propose to repay it.
What happened
In a decision dated 14 March 2022, I confirmed, with reasons, that our remit to consider the 
merits of this complaint was limited to how Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs O, and is treating 
them, regarding the end of the mortgage term and how they propose to repay it. This 
decision sets out my findings on that. As weve not commented on the subject matter 
previously, this is a provisional decision that allows both parties the opportunity to comment 
before I finalise it.
The wider complaint began before the mortgage term expired; indeed, I suspect it was the 
approaching deadline for repayment, and Lloyds contacting them for repayment proposals, 
that prompted them to make the complaint. Whilst the complaint has been with us, the expiry 
date has come and gone, and Lloyds has told us it is currently not pressing Mr and Mrs O for 
repayment proposals. Meantime, Mr and Mrs O have told us that currently, they have no 
issues with how Lloyds is treating them in this regard. 
By way of a provisional decision dated 21 March 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from the provisional 
decision.
The starting point here is that Lloyds lent Mr and Mrs O money that is now overdue for 
repayment. Its reasonably entitled to expect them to repay the debt, and to ask them how 
they propose to do so. Thats what Lloyds did initially, and there was, and is, nothing wrong 
with that. If Mr and Mrs O cant, or wont, say how and by when they intend repaying the 
debt, Lloyds ultimate sanction is to enforce its security. That is; take legal action for 
possession of the mortgaged property and then sell it to recover the outstanding debt.
 
Seeking possession action isnt inherently unfair, otherwise thered be point to secured 
lending at all. But the regulator of mortgage lenders, the Financial Conduct Authority, 
expects lenders to show patience, especially to borrowers whose only means of repayment 
is to sell their home. Presently, Lloyds is doing just that, and Mr and Mrs O have said as 
much themselves. On that basis, I cant reasonably uphold this complaint. 
Thats not to say Lloyds must wait indefinitely for Mr and Mrs O to repay the mortgage, or at 
least to come up with an acceptable plan for doing so. As I said earlier, Lloyds is reasonably 
entitled to expect the money it lent in good faith to be repaid. 
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done so. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision with no further comment. Mr and Mrs O raised 
again the question of our jurisdiction. Although they now accepted most of the historic 
elements of the complaint were time-barred, they said the issue about Mr Os private 
pension wasnt because Lloyds had declined to investigate it. Mr and Mrs O also expressed 
their frustration that I hadnt answered all of their questions, and wondered whether they 
might be able to take their case to the media.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions on the merits of the complaint Im able 
to determine. But I will respond to Mr and Mrs Os comments.
On the issue of jurisdiction, I have previously issued my decision on what we can and cannot 
consider; that said, its something we can, and will when necessary, revisit at any stage in a 
complaint. So Ive considered what Mr and Mrs O said about Mr Os private pension not 
being time-barred because Lloyds was unable to investigate it. Heres what Lloyds actually 
said, in its final response of 24 April 2015.
{Business name redacted} are the servicing agents for this plan and gave the original 
advice for taking this plan out. As such we are unable to obtain full details of the plan without 
your authority. We appreciate you feel you were advised by us to cancel this plan, however 
we are unable to find any evidence this was something you were advised to do by us. 
However, if you have any documentary evidence to show we did advise you to cancel this 
plan we will look at this for you.
Lloyds could have looked into this matter further if Mr O had given it permission to approach 
the other named business; it also made clear that if Mr and Mrs O presented evidence of 
wrongdoing by Lloyds, it would consider it. Insofar as Lloyds said this in the final response, it 
was part of the final response, and therefore covered by the time-bar.
Being objective, and impartial means that Im not required to provide answers to every 
specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome. In 
addition, Im unable to address matters that fall outside the jurisdiction of the service, as 
much of this complaint does. Its entirely up to Mr and Mrs O what they do next, and which 
agencies they approach. Its not within my remit to advise them, as to do so would interfere 
with my impartiality.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman