DRN-4078994
The complaint
In summary, Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC (trading as First Direct), provided him 
with a credit card that he wasnt able to afford. I will refer to HSBC throughout the decision. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr F applied for a credit card with HSBC. The application was approved 
and a credit limit of £2,000 was provided. 
HSBC explained to this service the checks that it carried out before providing Mr F with the 
credit card. It said that it verified his income from his bank account that he had with HSBC. 
Allowing for tax and national insurance deductions on Mr Fs stated income of approximately 
£30,000, it derived a net income of approximately £1,900 a month. In addition, it said that it 
used information gathered from credit reference agencies and modelled essential spending 
including credit commitments it had obtained from credit reference agencies. It went on to 
explain that the creditworthiness and affordability assessment it carried out showed no 
evidence of missed payments and signs of over indebtedness.
Mr Fs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they 
thought the lending provided to Mr F was affordable. Mr F didnt agree. He referred to the 
gambling transactions and debt management repayments that he had been making, as 
reasons why he shouldnt have been provided with the credit. And he said that had been 
considered in respect of a complaint he had made about other borrowing taken out with 
HSBC.
The investigator explained that they didnt think the debt management plan repayments 
would necessarily have led HSBC to reject his application if it had checked his bank 
statements. They said they would have expected HSBC to question the payments and factor 
that into its lending decision. They also said the provision of the credit card allowed Mr F to 
move existing debt at an interest rate of 0%. 
In relation to the gambling Mr F had referred to, the credit card had been taken out before 
the loan and for a lower amount. Taking into the credit limit he was given and the available 
balance in his current account in the three months leading up to the application, they didnt 
think this would have suggested to HSBC that he would be unable to make the repayments. 
Mr F disagreed with our investigators opinion, to the case has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my assessment of Mr Fs complaint, I want to acknowledge what he 
has said about his other complaint about HSBC. I consider individual complaints. This 
means outcomes can be different in what on the face of it, may appear to be similar 
issues. This is often down to the nuances and individual circumstances of a particular 
case. And in respect of Mr Fs complaints about HSBC, they are different products with 
different levels of lending taken out at different times.  Also, I am not bound by what 
ombudsman colleagues may have decided on other cases that may ostensibly appear 
similar. 
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Im decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if HSBC treated Mr F 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit card.
1) Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay his credit card in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did HSBC make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be 
able to repay his credit card in a sustainable way? 
The rules that HSBC had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess, whether Mr F could afford to repay the credit card he wanted to take out. 
This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks HSBC needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what 
this meant in practice, was that the scope and extent of HSBCs checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate, 
and any indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks HSBC needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this, is that the checks needed to consider whether the 
credit provided, and the monthly repayments, would cause Mr F any difficulties or have any 
adverse consequences for him. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr F had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to make the card repayments with a low income. It would also need to be more thorough 
the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it would be more difficult to make higher monthly 
repayments on a given income. 
With these principles in mind, Ive thought about whether HSBC completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be able to repay his credit card in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit card application were as follows:
Mr F was applying for a credit card which had an APR of 18.9% and 0% on balance 
transfers made within 90 days.  
Mr F was recorded by HSBC as having a net monthly income of approximately £1,900 
when the credit card was taken out. Mr F was offered a credit limit of £2,000. 
The credit report obtained by HSBC in respect of Mr F as part of its underwriting 
process, showed no evidence of missed payments or over indebtedness. It recorded 
total credit balances of £4,275.
The credit limit of £2,000 that HSBC approved wasnt in my opinion, an insignificant amount. 
So, I would expect HSBC to have taken steps to verify information about Mr Fs financial 
circumstances. And from the evidence Ive been provided with, I can see that it does appear 
that it did carry out checks to verify information about Mr Fs financial circumstances. 
Mr F banked with HSBC, and I can see that it did check the credits received into his bank 
account. Its also provided evidence of a credit reference check that it carried out. This 
doesnt appear to show any evidence of excessive borrowing, missed payments or other 
adverse information. In addition, it has explained the expenditure assessment that it carried 
out to determine whether Mr F could afford to make repayments for the credit limit provided. 
And I think the expenditure assumptions it used in this case werent unreasonable. 
I understand that Mr F believes that HSBC should have checked his bank statements, and 
that if it did, it would have seen evidence of gambling transactions and debt management 
payments. But that isnt something that HSBC would have to do in every case. As Ive said, 
what it needed to do was carry out checks that were reasonable and proportionate in the 
context of the lending it was proposing to make to Mr F. And taking into account the 
circumstances of Mr Fs credit card application that I have summarised above, Im satisfied 
for the reasons Ive set out, that the checks HSBC did carry out were reasonable and 
proportionate in this particular case.
Did HSBC make a fair lending decision?  
The credit checks that Ive summarised above indicate to me that Mr F appears to have 
been managing his existing credit without any difficulties. And the expenditure exercise 
HSBC carried out indicated that in relation to Mr Fs income, he had significant surplus 
income each month that meant he would be able to meet the repayments in respect of the 
credit card limit that he was being provided with. Also, the current account statements Mr F 
has provided for the months preceding the credit card application, dont indicate to me that 
he was having any difficulties managing his finances, that should have led HSBC to consider 
whether it was appropriate to provide him the credit that it did. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think that in the particular circumstances of Mr Fs 
case, HSBC didnt do anything wrong in providing him with the credit limit that it did or treat 
him unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. I do understand that Mr F will be disappointed 
with my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Simon DibbleOmbudsman