DRN-3944551
The complaint
H complains REDWOOD BANK LIMITED (Redwood) put their commercial loan application 
on hold and later said the offer had expired.
What happened
H approached Redwood around November 2019 to apply for a commercial loan. 
Redwood produced an offer on 16 January 2020, which H accepted on the same day.
On 23 March 2020, Redwood contacted H to say it had decided to put the application on 
hold due to the coronavirus, Covid-19, pandemic (the pandemic). Redwood said it was 
concerned about the impact the pandemic was having on the hospitality industry. Redwood 
offered to reconsider its position if H could provide evidence they could meet their 
commitments despite the restrictions in place.
H provided information to support their position on 7 April 2020 and said they could cope for 
a projected closure period of nine months. But Redwood responded on 16 April 2020 to 
confirm its original decision to hold the application would stand.
Sometime later, on 5 January 2021, Redwood informed H the loan offer had expired. And, 
as the loan didnt draw down before the offer expired, the application had been cancelled. 
H, through a representative, complained they were never given the opportunity to draw down 
because Redwood placed the application on hold, and this was the only reason the 
application expired. Hs representative says Redwood wasnt entitled to put the application 
on hold when it did. So, H is seeking £19,506.90 from Redwood for the financial losses 
incurred. 
Redwood issued a final response and explained its terms and conditions allowed it to 
withhold the loan facility if an Event of Default (EOD) occurred. It said this condition can 
be used if the EOD is considered likely to occur after the drawdown date. So, Redwood said 
it wasnt responsible for any costs H paid to third parties, but it had refunded the Offer Letter 
Fee of £900.
H didnt accept Redwoods response, so they referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Hs concerns, but they didnt think Redwood needed to do anything 
further. As H remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Hs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Redwood has provided a copy of the terms and conditions of the loan H applied for. This 
sets out Redwoods right to withhold the loan facility if an EOD occurs. 
An EOD is described as:
any event occurs (or circumstances exist) which, in the opinion of the Lender, has or is 
likely to materially and adversely affect the Borrower's ability to perform all or any of its 
obligations under, or otherwise comply with the terms of, any Finance Document.
Based on this, Im satisfied the clause can be relied on if, in Redwoods opinion, an EOD 
occurs, or is likely to occur, after draw down.
While H accepted Redwoods offer promptly, the loan was not yet in place by the time the 
pandemic started  the event. And it wasnt long before the government announced that Hs 
type of business could not open while they tried to control the spread of the virus. It wasnt 
clear how long this period would last, but there was an indication that this could go on for 
several months. And, that when the government allowed businesses like Hs to reopen, there 
could be significant restrictions in place which would more likely than not have had a 
financial impact on the business.
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Redwood to have considered the impact 
of the pandemic on H. And that after doing so, it formed the opinion the pandemic was likely 
to materially and adversely affect Hs ability to meet their obligations, such as making the 
contractual monthly payments (CMPs) on the loan. So, Im satisfied Redwood was entitled 
to withhold the loan in the circumstances and I note H understood its reasons for this at the 
time. 
I can see Redwood gave H the opportunity to change its view, which I think was fair in the 
circumstances. H responded and explained they were confident they could proceed. I 
understand they provided a spreadsheet detailing their anticipated expenditures and 
confirmed they had an overdraft of £10,000 they could use if needed. Redwood considered 
this information, as I would expect it to, but it didnt change its position and it explained this 
to H. 
Ultimately, it was up to Redwood to decide whether it was comfortable with the risk or not. 
And considering everything, I dont think it was unreasonable for Redwood to still have 
concerns and to leave the account on hold. I understand H said it would be ok for around 
nine months, but there was no telling how long the pandemic would last  it was 
unprecedented at the time. I also think it was reasonable for Redwood to be concerned 
about Hs proposal of relying on an overdraft facility. Use of the overdraft could have put H in 
further debt and was also not guaranteed as overdraft facilities can be withdrawn. 
The loan remained on hold until January 2021, when Redwood confirmed it had been 
cancelled as the offer had now expired. I appreciate H would more likely than not have 
proceeded with the loan prior to it expiring had Redwood not put the offer on hold. But as 
Ive explained above, Im satisfied Redwood was entitled to do that. So, if H wanted to 
ensure the offer would remain valid, they would have needed to request for the offer to be 
extended, as per the terms and conditions. I havent seen anything to suggest H did this, but 
even if they did, it would have been up to Redwood to decide whether to grant an extension 
or not. 
Redwood has refunded the £900 offer fee H had to pay it and I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Hs representative thinks Redwood is 
responsible for other costs H incurred, but I dont think it is. As Ive explained above, I think it 
was reasonable for Redwood to take the actions it did, so it wouldnt be responsible for other costs Redwood incurred. Proceeding with the loan could have left H in a much more 
vulnerable position, so I think Redwood attempted to mitigate loss for itself and for H by 
making the decisions it did.
In any case, much of the costs Hs representative have referred to were paid for by a third-
party, so we wouldnt be able to compensate H for that. In addition, many of those costs 
were incurred prior to Redwood issuing an offer, so H committed to those costs before they 
any agreement in place with Redwood. And H continued spending funds after Redwood had 
put the account on hold, by which point H should have been aware there was a risk the loan 
wouldnt go ahead. So, for all of these reasons, I dont think Redwood can be held 
responsible for these costs. It follows, I dont think Redwood has done anything wrong and I 
make no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman