DRN-2584094
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Countrywide Principal Services Limited delayed in telling them their 
potential mortgage lender wouldnt lend them as much as they needed to buy the house they 
wanted.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Whilst Countrywide received an email from the lender on 24 January 2020 saying it could 
only lend around £104,000 rather than the £150,000 that had been applied for, the broker 
immediately phoned the lender to query it. In that call the broker was told by the lender:
 because the valuations sitting at zero its taking the presumption of minimum 
affordability, so that max loan of £104-odd we should take with a pinch of salt until we 
get the valuation the valuer back with a confirmed valuation price because they 
reckon it will amend at that point.
I think it all hinges on what the valuer responds to the work carried out. I think were 
in limbo until that point, and then if the valuer is happy with the works carried out then 
the valuation can be added then and we can send it over to underwriting for them to 
add on the amended valuation price which will then change a good deal on the case.
If you want to hang fire until we get this response from the valuer and then well take 
it from there. If the valuer is happy with that then well just refer it over to underwriting 
for them to make the amendment on the valuation and then the system will then 
update at that point then there. Then well know exactly what were needing.
Having listened to that call I can understand why the broker didnt tell Mr and Mrs P that 
there were affordability concerns; hed been reassured this was a technicality due to the 
known valuation issues. There was no mention of any affordability concerns in that call, only 
reassurance that this was a technicality that would be updated once the valuation issues 
were resolved.
Mr and Mrs P have said that Countrywide has lied as it said it didnt keep call recordings. But 
we didnt receive this call from Countrywide; we received it from the lender. I cant consider 
anything about what the lender did or didnt do in this complaint against Countrywide as that 
is a separate business. 
The full mortgage amount wasnt declined because of the acts or omissions of Countrywide, 
instead it was because the lender wasnt happy with the level of risk the application posed. 
Again, I cant consider that decision by the lender in a complaint against Countrywide, and 
having considered everything Im satisfied Countrywide fairly represented the application to 
the lender and pursued all available avenues to try to get it agreed. There was nothing 
further Countrywide could do, and it couldnt have predicted that the lender would only be 
willing to lend a lower amount.
Whilst Ive no doubt that this would have been an incredibly stressful time for Mr and Mrs P I 
dont consider that Countrywide did anything wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman