DRN-3703178
The complaint
Mr D complains about MJF SIPP Operator Limited (MJF). 
He says that MJF hasnt pursued outstanding rent on a property held within his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). 
What happened
In 2001, Mr D and his then business partner (who Ill refer to as Mr P) each purchased 50% 
of a commercial property held within their respective individual SIPPs. Their joint business 
leased part of the commercial property from each partners SIPP.
In 2007, Mr D sold his share of the business to Mr P but retained joint ownership of the 
property within his SIPP.
Since 2016, Mr D says that there have been ongoing issues with non-payment of rent, and 
although this has previously been resolved, no rent has been received since late 2019 and 
Mr P has refused to sign a new lease, which has caused him a financial loss.
Mr D considered that MJF had a responsibility to pursue the outstanding rent and get a new 
lease in place. He also wants MJF to cover any costs for taking the tenant (Mr P) to court. 
He complained to MJF.
MJF didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it didnt have any responsibility for arranging 
new leases or collecting rent.
Unhappy with the response from MJF, Mr D brought his complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr D 
disagreed with this, but our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr D, its clear that the ongoing issues he has had have been time 
consuming and frustrating. 
Mr D has raised a number of different points and issues regarding his complaint and I would 
like to reassure Mr D that I have read and considered all the information he has provided. 
However, I wont be commenting on every point that Mr D has raised but will focus on the 
key issue at hand here, which is if MJF has a responsibility to ensure that a lease is in place 
on the property and that rent is paid. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions provided, and I consider there are two sections which 
are relevant here  Section 4 and Section 8.
Section 4 Services sets out the services that will be provided by MJF as follows:
4.1 The following services will be provided by MJF:
i. Establishment of your individual Fund within the Scheme.
ii. Setting up and maintaining administration records.
iii. Recovery of basic rate tax on contributions if applicable.
iv. Recovery of tax deducted at source on UK investment income where applicable.
v. Arranging transfer values from other pension policies.
vi. Arranging investments on your or your Financial Advisors instructions (except those 
that require the services of a stockbroker).
vii. Provision of annual statements detailing assets, contributions and transfer values 
receives, and for those members not in drawdown or within 2 years of their 
selected retirement date, projection of expected benefits using prescribed 
assumptions.
viii. Setting up of a designated bank account for each Individual Fund.
ix. Maintaining records of investment transfections (except where this is carried out by 
the investment provider); and
x. Administration of income withdrawal including provision of annual projections, regular 
reviews and payment of lump sums and pension.
xi. Such other services as may be required from time to time to comply with HMRC and 
FCA (the Financial Conduct Authority) requirements.
And Section 8 Property which is set out as follows.
8 Property
[] 8.3 The property will be registered in the joint names of you and the Scheme Trustee. 
The day to day administrative duties and obligations of the landlord will be your 
responsibility. In this regard, you may prefer to appoint a property manager whose fees will 
be met from your Individual Fund or by deduction from the rent collected.
Looking at the terms and conditions, I dont agree that they indicate that MJF is responsible 
for ensuring that a lease is in place or chasing rent that is due. It is clear from the terms that 
responsibility for this lies with Mr D. It is also my understanding that Mr D has appointed an 
accountancy firm to deal with these matters and, over the years, he has taken legal advice to 
try and resolve the ongoing issue with the lease.
Mr D says that it was MJF that told him a lease was necessary and it was incumbent on MJF 
to take control of the situation to ensure it was put in place to protect all parties. But Im not 
persuaded that this was MJFs responsibility to do so. I think it made it clear that a solicitor 
needed to be appointed to deal with the lease, but ultimately it was Mr P refusing to sign the 
lease which has led to the problems. I dont think it is fair or reasonable to hold MJF responsible for this.
Mr D has raised concerns that his SIPP may be in breach of HMRC rules by not having a 
lease for the property in place. Mr D says at no point after selling his share of the business 
did MJF tell him about the difficulties he would face with Mr P being a connected tenant 
whilst he wasnt. He says that it is due to MJFs failings that the HMRC rules relating to a 
connected tenant arent being followed, which has led to the situation affecting him.
It appears that Mr D is saying MJFs failure to deal with Mr Ps SIPP in accordance with 
HMRC rules relating to connected tenants has led to the problems with his own SIPP. But as 
Im sure Mr D can appreciate, I cannot comment on how MJF has dealt with Mr Ps SIPP. 
Furthermore, it isnt for me to decide whether HMRC rules have been breached. My role 
here is limited to considering whether MJF has breached any of the obligations it has to Mr D 
as per the terms of the SIPP. And as Ive said above, Im satisfied that MJF does not have 
any responsibility for agreeing the lease or collecting rent. I think these issues would fall 
within the normal obligations of a landlord.
I understand that this will be disappointing news for Mr D, and he does have my sympathy 
with what must be a very difficult situation for him. But I dont find that MJF is responsible 
here, and it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman