DRN-2847611
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) both increased and decreased her 
credit limit irresponsibly. She also complains about the service they have provided. 
Mr T complains on Mrs Ts behalf. 
What happened
Since obtaining a credit card with Barclays in September 2010, Mrs T has had her credit limit 
both increased and decreased multiple times. Mrs Ts credit limit started at £10,000, and the 
following changes were made: 
August 2013  increased to £11,000
March 2014  increased to £12,000
December 2014  increased to £16,000
July 2020  decreased to £7,450 
January 2021  decreased to £5,050 
In relation to the credit increases, Mrs T feels these were applied irresponsibly. Barclays 
responded to this and agreed that given the information they held about Mrs T, they 
shouldnt have increased her credit to £16,000. But they also explained that Mrs Ts 
outstanding balance never reached the limit set and she managed her account well, always 
paying more than the minimum payments. This meant that no additional interest was 
incurred, and no late fees or charges were applied, meaning there was no impact on Mrs T. 
Given the information they held about Mrs T, Barclays decided to reduce her credit limit. 
Following this, Mrs T complained as she believed it would have an effect on her credit score. 
Barclays explained that a credit limit on a card is reduced as a result of a review of the 
account history and information they obtain from credit reference agencies (CRAs). They 
said they look at things like the level of borrowing, payment patterns and whether any 
payments have been missed or paid late. They said they do this to make sure they are 
lending responsibly, and to keep a customers account in good health. 
They said they review credit limits on accounts regularly and look to make changes if they 
feel its appropriate. 
In relation to Mrs Ts comments that the decreases would affect her credit score, Barclays 
said they report account balances, credit limits and payment information to the CRAs on a 
monthly basis, in line with industry requirements. They advise customers to stay within their 
credit limit to prevent harming their score, but they arent able to comment on what effect the 
changes in limit will have on Mrs Ts score. 
Barclays have explained that they wouldnt decrease a customers limit to a level that would 
put them at risk of exceeding their new limit. They said when they reduced Mrs Ts limit to 
£7,450 in July 2020 she had over £3,350 available to spend. And when they reduced the 
limit again to £5,050 in January 2021, Mrs T had over £3,500 available to spend. Because of 
this Barclays are satisfied they have acted in line with their terms and conditions when 
decreasing Mrs Ts credit limit. 
Barclays have offered Mrs T £50 in relation to not calling her back as promised and for Mrs T 
not receiving the acknowledgement letter they promised to re-send. 
They explained that in relation to the call waiting times, the time given is an estimate based 
on the amount of people ahead in the queue, and that the system cant take into account any 
other variables that may make the waiting times longer. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Barclays had acted fairly and in line with their terms 
and conditions. He explained that while Barclays shouldnt have applied the credit increases, 
they hadnt had any effect on Mrs T and so no detriment was caused. 
In relation to the decreases, our investigator felt they were applied fairly and in line with 
Barclays account terms. He couldnt say whether or not they would affect Mrs Ts credit 
score. And he felt the £50 offered for the service given was fair. 
Mr T responded on behalf of Mrs T and disagreed. Because of this, the complaint was 
passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Credit increases 
Mrs Ts credit limit was increased three times and reached a limit of £16,000. Barclays have 
already upheld this part of Mrs Ts complaint and I agree with them. Given the information 
they held about Mrs T, the level of lending was higher than it should have been. However, as 
Mrs T didnt ever reach that limit, she wasnt disadvantaged by the increase. No additional 
fees, charges or interest were applied. So while I appreciate Barclays shouldnt have 
increased it to that level, there was no impact on Mrs T and so I dont believe they should 
award any compensation. 
Credit decreases
The terms of Mrs Ts credit card state that Barclays can reduce a limit if they feel the need 
to, after carrying out an assessment of risk or ability to repay. They also explain they have 
the right to not give any notice but may choose to give up to seven days notice if they wish. 
The reason a lender may not give notice is because they wouldnt want to notify a customer 
of a decrease and give them time to spend what is left before the decrease is applied. They 
do this to protect their customer, so they dont get themselves into any financial difficulty. 
In Mrs Ts case though, I can see that letters were sent before the decreases were applied. 
While seven days notice werent given, they dont have to be. Its up to Barclays to decide 
whether to give notice, and if so, how much. So I cant say theyve done anything wrong in 
relation to when they notified Mrs T of the decreases. With these complaints, our service isnt able to direct a bank to set or keep someones credit 
limit at a certain amount. We need to look and make sure they have acted fairly, and in line 
with their terms and conditions when they have applied either an increase or a decrease.  
Barclays have explained that they look at how a customer operates their credit card, and that 
they also act on information they received from CRAs each month, when deciding whether a 
limit held by someone is suitable. 
I can see that Barclays received a report from a CRA which gave a rating showing Mrs Ts 
income was low in comparison to her overall available credit. They received this information 
on 4 July 2020, and then again on the 7 January 2021. On both occasions, they wrote to Mrs 
T a few days later, notifying her of the decrease, and then applied it shortly after. 
Mrs T has said that Barclays reducing her credit limit may have had a negative impact on her 
credit score and that it will impact her ability to make purchases. I havent seen anything to 
suggest the reductions have affected her credit score in a negative way, so I cant comment 
on this any further. 
In relation to Mrs T not being able to make purchases, all I can do is check to make sure that 
Barclays have acted fairly and in line with the terms of the account. A bank cannot reduce a 
limit that would leave their customer in a position where they may exceed the new limit. I can 
see that after both reductions, Mrs T was still left with over £3,000 available, meaning she 
could still make purchases should she wish. 
The customer service provided 
Barclays have offered Mrs T £50 compensation for failing to communicate with her properly 
and for not sending her copies of correspondence that they agreed to send. I agree this is a 
fair amount to award for these errors, and so I wont be asking them to offer anything further. 
Overall, I am satisfied Barclays have acted in line with their terms and conditions and have 
applied the decreases to Mrs Ts credit limit fairly, taking into account relevant and 
necessary information. Because of this, I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman