DRN-3974048
The complaint
Miss B complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) cancelled her 
motor insurance policy unfairly due to an error with her licence information. 
Any reference to Watford includes its agents. 
What happened
In January 2022 Miss B applied for a policy online with Watford using a comparison website. 
Shortly afterwards she was asked for a copy of her driving licence to validate the date she 
had entered on the application. Miss B provided this information, which showed shed 
passed her test in December 2021. 
Watford wrote to Miss B in February 2022 cancelling the policy. It says the licence start date 
was significantly later than Miss B confirmed in her application, which was January 2009. 
Watford thought Miss B had acted recklessly when providing this information. 
Miss B didnt think this was fair. She says when she entered her details, shed confirmed she 
had held her full licence for one month. She says she also entered her licence number onto 
the form. Miss B says she held a provisional licence from 2009 and thinks an error was 
made when Watford obtained information using her licence number. She says this would 
explain the 2009 date as it corresponds with when she obtained her provisional licence. 
Watford didnt change its position. As a result of the cancellation Miss B had to pay a charge 
for time on cover, as well as other fees associated with early cancellation. This is in addition 
to increased future premiums due to the enforced cancellation. Miss B didnt think this was 
fair and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says Watford has shown Miss B had 
entered incorrect information in her application. This showed shed held a full licence for 
much longer than was the case. She thought Watford acted fairly and in line with its policy 
terms when cancelling the policy. 
Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford says Miss B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
confirming how long she had held a full driving licence. It says had it known shed only held a 
licence for one month, as opposed to 13 years, this would have a significant impact on the 
risk she posed, as well as the premium it would charge. Because this information was so 
significant, and Watford thought Miss B had acted recklessly, it decided to cancel the policy 
in line with CIDRA and its policy terms. 
Ive looked at the screenshots Watford provided that show the question Miss B was asked 
about her driving licence. It gives four options for Licence type. These include: Full (UK); 
Provisional (UK); Full (Other); and Provisional (Other). Watford says Miss B chose a full UK 
licence. The next question asks, How long have you held your licence. Two boxes are 
provided, one labelled months, and the other years. 
Miss B says she entered information to show she held her licence for one month. But I think 
Watford has reasonably shown this wasnt the case. She actually entered 13 years, which 
confirmed shed held a full licence from 2009.
Ive thought about Miss Bs view that there couldve been an error, whereby her provisional 
licence details were pulled through into her application from her driving licence number. I 
dont think this is what happened. The evidence shows that the applicant must manually 
enter the number of years and months they had held the type of licence selected. I think the 
question was clearly set out. It also includes a help box that provides clarification on each 
type of licence. 
In addition, Ive seen the proposal form Miss B was sent after she made her insurance 
application. On the front page under the heading, Important it says:
This is the information you supplied and on which your insurance is based. This statement 
of information must be retained and read together with your policy booklet. Certificate of 
motor insurance and motor policy schedule. You should also ensure that the information you 
have provided in this statement is accurate. If it is incorrect in any way, please tell your 
intermediary immediately. Failure to supply accurate and complete answers may mean your 
policy is invalid and that it does not operate in the event of a claim.
Under the section headed Driving it states Miss B has held a full licence since January 
2009. I cant see that she contacted Watford about this inaccuracy.   
I can see that Watford queried with its I.T. department whether an error had occurred, which 
resulted in incorrect information appearing in Miss Bs policy details. It confirmed an error 
hadnt occurred. It says the period Miss B had held a full licence was input, in years, during 
the application. This showed Miss B had held a licence since 2009.
Based on this evidence I dont think Miss B took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when submitting her application.Watford says it takes such a significant misrepresentation very seriously. It says this 
completely changes the risk and the premium it would charge. It has provided its 
underwriting criteria that shows in these circumstances it would act to cancel the policy. 
Watford says its not reasonable to allow Miss B to correct the licence information and 
continue with the policy. Rather, in these circumstances, it will exercise its right under its 
policy terms to cancel it. Watford refers to the following terms in support of the action it took:
We have the right to cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during the Period of 
Insurance, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing so. We will still send 
Our cancellation letter to the latest postal or email address We have for You and will set out 
the reason for cancellation in Our letter. Valid reasons allowing Us to immediately cancel 
may include but are not limited to:
a) Where You deliberately or recklessly tell Us something which is untrue or misleading in 
response to any question We ask You when You take out cover under this Policy, or amend 
Your cover under this Policy.     
Ive thought about whether its reasonable for Watford to consider Miss Bs 
misrepresentation reckless. I think it is. The questions in the application were clear and 
required Miss B to enter the number of years she had held a full driving licence. The policy 
information she subsequently received confirmed the details she provided. This says she 
had held a full licence since 2009. Because of this, I agree with Watford that Miss Bs 
misrepresentation should reasonably be considered reckless as opposed to careless. 
In these circumstances Watford is able to cancel the policy, which is in line with CIDRA and 
its policy terms. I can see that it charged for time on cover, until the policy was cancelled 
toward the end of February 2022. Based on the information provided this was done correctly 
and in line with the policy terms. 
   
In summary, although Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, I dont think Watford treated her unfairly 
when it relied on its policy terms and cancelled her policy for providing inaccurate 
information. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman