DRN-3878068
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that a car supplied to him by Oodle Financial Services Limited, under a hire 
purchase agreement, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 28 September 2021, Mr L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle. The agreement was for £16,795 over 60 months; with monthly 
repayments of £370.89. At the time of supply the car was just over five years old and had 
done 69,016 miles. 
In May 2022 the engine on the car failed because of lack of lubricant. At the time of the 
engine failure the car had done 80,018 miles  11,002 miles since it was supplied to Mr L. 
Mr L complained to Oodle about the engine failure, saying that hed been told the car had a 
full-service history when it was supplied. And he didnt think the engine wouldve failed had 
that been the case.
Oodle arranged for an independent engineers inspection on the car. And the engineer didnt 
think the fault with the engine was present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr L. 
And he said Mr L wouldnt have been able to travel 11,000 miles if the engine was faulty. So, 
Oodle didnt think the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L.
Mr L wasnt happy with Oodles response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the engine had failed due to a lack of lubrication. And, if the engine 
lacked lubrication when it was supplied to Mr L, then the investigator didnt think it likely that 
the car wouldve been able to do 11,000 miles before the engine failed. So, he didnt think 
the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
With regards to the service history, the investigator said Mr L had been told it had a full 
history. But there was nothing to show that Mr L only wanted a car with a full service history, 
or that he wouldnt have brought the car if it didnt have this. So, the investigator didnt think 
that Mr L had been induced to buy a car he otherwise wouldnt have done. In addition, the 
investigator said that the car was likely overdue a service at the time the engine failed. And 
he didnt think Oodle needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said hed never have bought the car if it had no 
service history and that he knew the importance of regular servicing. He said the car hadnt 
been serviced for more than 30,000 miles at the point the engine failed and the lubrication 
of the engine is solely down to the oil in the vehicle not being changed for a very long time, 
the oil never ran low since I bought it unless the OBC (on board computer) would of told me. 
And he said the damage to the engine had already begun, due to the lack of servicing by the 
previous owner, before he was supplied with the car.
Because of this hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Oodle 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. 
Ive seen a copy of the inspection Mr L had done on the car on 1 August 2022. This says:
Diagnosis: Con-rod through engine block causing catastrophic engine failure. Due to 
improper servicing. Oil and filter extremely old (30,000+ miles). Causing excessive 
wear and tear. No history found on obc. Water levels checked and ok.
Ive also seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 9 September 2022. This 
inspection took place when Mr L had had the car for almost a year and the car had done 
80,018 miles. The engineer said the engine has suffered internal failure where a conrod has 
gone through the engine block. On inspection the oil condition via the oil filling hole it was 
clear there was sludge around the inside of the camcover; this would suggest the vehicle 
has not been serviced recently, with low level of oil suggesting the oil level has not been 
checked as regularly as defined within the vehicle owners handbook.
The engineer also said the engine failure in our opinion has been due to a combination of a 
lack of lubrication or poor quality oil due to a lack of servicing. The vehicle appears to have 
covered 11,000 miles since the date of sale, therefore the engine failure could not have been 
present the point of purchase, at the time of inspection the vehicle was due a service. At the 
time of inspection there was insufficient evidence to suggest that the current issues are 
associated with any previous repairs, with the engine issues in our opinion being attributed 
to poor lubrication and driver not checking the engine oil regularly therefore repair costs are 
not the responsibility of the sales agent  our opinion the vehicle was road legal and fit for 
purpose at the point of sale being reaffirmed by the fact that the vehicle passed an MOT  
at the point of sale
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the engine failed as a result of the quality/quantity 
of the oil in the car. Which was caused by a lack of servicing. Mr L has also said that the car 
was due, and booked in for, a service that was scheduled to happen eight days after the 
engine failed.Ive seen a copy of the manufacturers manual for the make and model of the car supplied to 
Mr L. And this confirms the car has Condition Based Service (CBS)  the car will indicate 
what servicing is required based on various factors. And, on turning the ignition, the car 
indicates the remaining time and distance to the next service. This also includes a function 
which confirms when the engine oil needs replacement. There is also a red indicator 
dashboard light that illuminates when the next service is due. Im satisfied that, for Mr L to 
have known the car needed to be booked in for a service, this would indicate that the CBS 
was working correctly.
The report that Mr L obtained indicated that the oil hadnt been changed for over 30,000 
miles at the point of failure. And, if thats the case, it would mean that it hadnt been changed 
for at least 19,000 miles at the point of supply.
Mr L has said that he was told the car was supplied with a full service history. And Ive seen 
a copy of an undated text conversation that Mr L has supplied. In this Mr L asks what year 
is that one and the reply is 2016 full history. Its my understanding that this conversation 
took place with the dealership who supplied the car.
Mr L says that this was misrepresentation, as the car hadnt been serviced in line with the 
manufacturers requirements when it was supplied to him. And, when considering 
misrepresentation, Im looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact 
and, if there was, whether it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr L to choose that 
particular car.
As Ive said above, Im satisfied the CBS was working on the car as Mr L knew that the car 
needed a service in September 2022 even though there was no regular service or mileage 
interval for the car specified in the manufacturers manual. And, if the car hadnt been 
serviced for almost 20,000 miles before it was supplied to Mr L, then the CBS wouldve most 
likely indicated this. And that a service was due/overdue.
Whats more, if the CBS indicated the car needed to be serviced upon supply and/or the 
service book on the car wasnt showing the full service history the car was indicated to have 
been supplied with; then I wouldve expected Mr L to have raised this with the supplying 
dealership either at the point of supply or shortly afterwards. And theres no evidence that he 
did this.
As such, Im not satisfied that the car hadnt been serviced in line with the CBS requirements 
before it was supplied to Mr L. So, I dont think there was any false statement of fact and, 
therefore, there wasnt any misrepresentation.
Turning now to whether the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L. Its 
clear from the evidence that the engine failed due to lack of lubrication, which had caused 
excessive wear and tear. However, as the car had travelled almost 70,000 miles at the point 
of supply, its reasonable to expect that the engine wouldve suffered from age and mileage 
related wear and tear. So, I cant fairly say that any wear and tear the engine had suffered, 
and which contributed to the engine failure, was solely due to the type, condition, and age of 
the oil that had been used.
I also need to take into consideration that Mr L was able to use the car for around nine 
months, and travel over 11,000 miles, before the engine failed. And, if the wear and tear to 
the engine was so significant at the point of supply, I dont think hed be able to do this. So, 
taking all the facts into consideration, Im satisfied the car wasnt of an unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr L. Because of this, and while Im aware itll come as a 
disappointment to Mr L, I wont be asking Oodle to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman