DRN-3115140
The complaint
Ms J complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to promptly refund two 
overpayments to her mortgage account.
What happened
In July 2020, following a previous discussion with Barclays, Ms J made what she believed 
were two overpayments to her mortgage account, but subsequently discovered these were 
treated as part redemption payments which affected her ongoing contractual monthly 
payments (CMP) to her mortgage account. As a result Ms J says in late July 2020 she then 
instructed Barclays to refund these payments, but Barclays took until mid-September 2020 
to refund one of the overpayments of £477.77 and despite Barclays saying it had also 
refunded the second overpayment of £700, it hadnt. 
Ms J says it was only following further complaints to Barclays that it eventually refunded the 
second payment of £700. Ms J says this matter has affected her health and caused her 
considerable stress and upset and is looking for Barclays to substantially increase its offer of 
£150 in compensation for the inconvenience this has caused her. 
Barclays says it has apologised for any misinformation concerning how the payments to Ms 
Js mortgage account would be allocated and paid her £25 to recognise this. Barclays also 
apologised for the delay in refunding the first refund of £477.77 and paid her a further £25 for 
this error. Barclays subsequently agreed it hadnt refunded the second overpayment of £700 
and apologised for that offering Ms J a further compensation payment of £150. 
Ms J wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Ms Js complaint. The 
investigator felt Barclays had made a number of mistakes and had failed to correctly refund 
Ms J in a timely manner. The investigator says that although Barclays recognised the 
mistakes it made, it didnt go far enough when compensating Ms J for the inconvenience and 
upset it caused over this matter. The investigator suggested a further payment of £250 
should be paid to include the £25 that has already been paid to Ms J. 
In addition, the investigator asked Barclays to pay 8% simple interest on both payments of 
£477.77 and £700 from 29 July 2020 to the date they were finally refunded. The investigator 
also mentioned that she didnt feel Ms Js credit rating was affected as a direct result of 
these late refunds. 
Ms J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I was sorry to learn that Ms Js health has been affected by this matter and I can see this 
would have been a frustrating and stressful time for her. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider if Barclays, having now acknowledged its earlier mistakes, have adequately 
compensated Ms J for the trouble and upset this has caused. 
Ms J later during the course of this complaint, mentioned that her credit rating had been 
affected by the errors Barclays made, but as the investigator has pointed out there is no 
evidence to suggest that to be the case here and any adverse impact to Ms Js credit rating 
was in all likelihood a result of missed mortgage payments. 
Its worth saying this issue didnt form part of the complaint brought to this service and 
Barclays have not had the opportunity to comment on this, so if Ms J feels her credit file has 
been incorrectly  adversely affected, this would need to be dealt with under a separate 
complaint, which Ms J can raise with the investigator if she so wishes. But to be clear I wont 
be commenting  on that issue here, other than to say theres no evidence to suggest the late 
refunds have affected Ms Js credit file directly. 
Ms J has also complained about how her complaint was handled and processed by 
Barclays, but its not the role of this service to scrutinise Barclays complaints process or to 
tell it how it should deal with complaints more widely. My role is to look at whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint. And so, Ill be looking at whether 
or not Barclays have acted fairly when dealing with the refund of the two overpayments Ms J 
made to her mortgage account, back in July 2020. 
The first thing to say here is following the investigators contact with Barclays, it has now 
accepted it took too long to refund one of the overpayments of £477.77 and failed to action 
the second refund of £700 when it was asked to in July 2020. Barclays have explained in 
some detail to Ms J how overpayments are allocated to her mortgage account, so I dont feel 
I need to elaborate here. Ms Js issue now is the amount of compensation she has been 
offered by Barclays, as she doesnt believe the £150 it offered goes far enough to cover the 
trouble and upset she has gone through. 
While I understand Ms J feels the compensation should be considerably higher than 
Barclays have offered and understand the time Barclays took and the stress this caused her 
would have been upsetting for her, its not my role to penalise businesses when genuine 
mistakes are made. The role of this service is to ensure appropriate actions are taken to put 
consumers back in the position they were before any mistakes occurred and a proportionate 
level of redress is paid for that. 
Here, although Barclays have rectified its mistakes and have already paid a modest amount 
of compensation of £25, I dont feel its additional offer of £150 is quite sufficient here. So, 
like the  investigator I feel a total of £250 would be more appropriate and in addition Barclays 
should pay 8% simple interest on the overpayments made to Ms Js mortgage account, from 
the date she requested the refund in late July 2020, until they were eventually refunded. 
While Ms J will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to increase the total compensation to £250. This includes 
the £25 already paid to Ms J.Barclays should also pay 8% simple interest from 29 July 2020, the date the two 
overpayments of £477.77 and £700 were requested by Ms J to be refunded, until the date 
they were finally paid to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to increase the total compensation to £250. This includes 
the £25 already paid to Ms J.
Barclays should also pay 8% simple interest from 29 July 2020, the date the two 
overpayments of £477.77 and £700 were requested by Ms J to be refunded, until the date 
they were finally paid to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman