DRN-4061880
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt tell him, before it put 
money into his account, that it was to reduce his overdraft and should not be spent. 
What happened
Mr M says he had a complaint against RBS, and it was agreed he would receive an interest 
refund into his account. He says the money was credited to his account before Christmas 
2021, but he wasnt told that he should not spend it. Mr M says he spent some £300 of the 
money and so his overdraft didnt reduce as was intended. He would like to be put back in 
the position he would have been in and says he hasnt been treated fairly.
RBS says it e-mailed Mr M details of the refund and told him that he should not withdraw the 
money as it was intended to reduce his overdraft. It says it also told Mr M it was reducing the 
overdraft facility to £2,000 and says Mr Ms original complaint was that the facility had been 
unfairly increased in the first place.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr M accepted the original decision which resulted in the money being credited to 
his account. And that RBS e-mailed Mr M on 23 December 2021 with details of the refund 
and told him not to withdraw the money as it was intended to reduce the overdraft. 
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says RBS ought to have told him directly or made sure he 
was aware of the e-mail, so that he was aware of the position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the original final decision and the e-mails RBS sent Mr M in the 
later part of 2021. I can see the final decision which Mr M accepted said the overdraft 
amount would reduce which of course was Mr Ms main complaint, that it shouldnt have 
been increased. I can also see that RBS e-mailed Mr M in October 2021 telling him the 
overdraft would reduce. So, I think Mr M ought reasonably to have been aware before RBS 
credited his account, that he would be receiving a payment into his account which would 
reduce his overdraft and that his overdraft facility would also be reducing. Im satisfied that 
was made clear by RBS and in the final decision.
I appreciate Mr M may not have been aware of RBSs e-mail on 23 December 2021 about 
the refunded interest and overdraft. But Im satisfied having read the e-mail it told Mr M that 
he shouldnt spend the money and that his overdraft facility was reducing. I cant fairly hold 
RBS responsible for Mr M not reading that e-mail and, in any event, have made clear that I 
think both RBS and the final decision made the position clear before that date. 
I appreciate Mr M says RBS ought to have considered other ways of communicating with 
him, but I disagree and think it unreasonable to have expected RBS to have, for example, 
telephoned Mr M in these circumstances or monitored if an e-mail was read.
Overall, I cant fairly hold RBS responsible for Mr M spending some of the refunded money. 
It follows that I cant order it do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint and 
think this now brings an end to what we, in trying to resolve this complaint informally, can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman