DRN-1614034
 
The complaint
Mrs O says MBNA Limited mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs O applied for a credit card in September 2002 and PPI was added to her account a few 
weeks later, after she received a phone call from MBNA about it.
Mrs O says if MBNA had actually asked her if she wanted PPI, she wouldve declined it. She 
says MBNA have charged her for something she didnt need and wasnt aware of.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Os complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs O disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs O says she cant remember how the PPI was sold  which I dont think is surprising, 
given how long ago it was. But she says that, if she had got a phone call from MBNA, theres 
no way shed have bought extra insurance.
MBNA says the PPI was sold over the phone a few weeks after Mrs O applied for the card, 
when one of its associates called her up. From the information Ive seen from MBNA, I think 
thats likely to be what happened. Theres no call recording and no call notes  which I dont 
think is surprising after so long. But MBNA has shown us a call script it says was in use at 
the time. This makes it clear the PPI is optional and there are a number of occasions when 
the call handler is prompted to ask a customer for oral confirmation that he or she agrees to 
PPI. I think its likely this call script, or something similar, was used when MBNA called    Mrs 
O. And I think its likely, since PPI was added to her account, that she said yes to it at the 
time  even though now, understandably, she doesnt remember doing so. So I dont 
uphold Mrs Os complaint on this point.
From what Ive seen from the call script, MBNA didnt advise Mrs O to buy the PPI, so it 
didnt need to make sure it was right for her. But MBNA did need to give Mrs O enough clear 
information about the PPI for her to be able to make that decision herself in an informed 
way.
The information MBNA gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  and 
I dont think it clearly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out if Mrs O made a claim. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mrs O chose to take out the policy when she 
didnt have to  so she seems to have wanted it. And she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.
Mrs O has told us she wouldve got sick pay from her work at the time she took out the PPI  
but she hasnt been able to say how much that wouldve been. She has, though, said shed 
been in her job for only around six months. I think its likely any sick pay she got would 
therefore have been quite limited. So, even though the policy benefit was low, based on the 
limited information I have about Mrs Os circumstances, I cant say it wouldnt have been 
useful to her in helping with her card repayments if shed had to stop work unexpectedly. So 
I dont think clearer information about the cost and benefits of the policy is likely to have 
stopped Mrs O going ahead with it.
Mrs O also says she had family and friends who couldve helped her if necessary. But this 
kind of help cant always be guaranteed, because peoples circumstances can change. It 
isnt the same as having an insurance policy to fall back on. So this doesnt change my 
conclusions on Mrs Os complaint.
Looking at everything, I dont think Mrs O has lost out because of anything MBNA may have 
done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman