DRN-3993876
The complaint
Ms D complains that some holiday club membership points that she paid for using a fixed 
sum loan agreement with GE Money Consumer Lending Limited were mis-sold to her.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Ms D and her husband entered into an acquisition agreement to buy some holiday 
club membership points in September 2008. The purchase price of the points was 
£24,415 and they traded in a trial membership which was given a value of £5,795 so 
the amount that they had to pay was £18,620. Ms D entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with GE Money that she signed in September 2008 for a loan of that 
amount. She agreed to make 120 monthly payments of £318.44 to GE Money.
Ms Ds representative made a claim to GE Money under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in January 2018 that the membership points had been mis-sold to 
Ms D. GE Money said that her account had been transferred to a third party and it 
was unable to investigate her complaint so she should contact the third party. Ms D 
wasnt satisfied with its response so a complaint was made to this service. GE Money 
then issued a detailed response to Ms Ds claims in September 2021. It said, 
amongst other things, that Ms Ds claims were statute barred under the Limitation Act 
1980 and that she would have been aware if the loan was unaffordable as her loan 
was sold to a different third party in December 2011. It apologised for giving incorrect 
information about the transfer of her loan and offered Ms D £125 compensation.
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that Ms D had complained to this service within three years of becoming aware that 
she had cause to complain about GE Money so he was satisfied that this service did 
have jurisdiction to consider her complaint. He said that proportionate checks 
wouldve shown that the loan was unaffordable for Ms D so he didnt think that GE 
Money had made a fair lending decision and shouldnt have given her the loan. He 
recommended that Ms D should be put back in the position that she wouldve been in 
before she bought the points and took out the loan. He also said that it wasnt 
necessary for him to consider her other complaint points about the sale of the 
membership.
GE Money has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
provided a detailed response to our investigators recommendation in which it set out 
the reasons that it doesnt consider that Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. The 
holiday company says that Ms D and her husbands membership points were traded 
in towards the purchase of another holiday club membership in December 2013 
which was financed by a different lender. It has provided information about fifteen 
holiday bookings that Ms D and her husband completed using the membership points 
between September 2008 and December 2013. Ms D and her husband have also 
made a claim to that lender under section 75 about the December 2013 sale and a 
complaint has been made to this service about that lenders response to their claim. 
That complaint is being dealt with separately.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows: 
We dont have a free hand to consider every complaint thats referred to us. Our 
rules for considering complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook of rules and guidance. DISP 
2.8.2R says that this service cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us 
more than: six years after the event complained of; or (if later) three years from the 
date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become 
aware) that they had cause for complaint; unless the failure to comply with the time 
limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Ms D signed the loan agreement in September 2008 and I consider that GE Money 
made the loan to her at that time. Ms Ds representative made a claim to GE Money 
under section 75 in January 2018 and her complaint was made to this service in April 
2018. I dont consider that either the claim or the complaint included a complaint that 
the loan was unaffordable for Ms D. Even if such a complaint had been made, I 
consider that the event about which Ms D would be complaining happened in 
September 2008 so her complaint wouldnt have been made within six years of the 
event complained of.
Our investigator thought that Ms D had complained to this service within three years 
of becoming aware that she had cause to complain about GE Money. GE Money 
says that Ms Ds account had fallen into arrears and was sold as a bad debt to a third 
party in December 2011. Although GE Money says that Ms Ds loan was sold as a 
bad debt, it hasnt disputed its liability for issues arising from that loan.
I consider that Ms D ought reasonably to have been aware that she had cause to 
complain to GE Money when she was unable to make some of the monthly payments 
which caused her account to go into arrears. I also consider that she ought 
reasonably to have become aware that the loan was unaffordable for her and that 
she had cause to complain to GE Money when her account was sold as a bad debt 
to a third party in December 2011.
For those reasons, I consider that Ms D ought reasonably to have been aware that 
there was a problem with the loan at that time, that the problem caused her to lose 
out and that it was the actions of GE Money in making the loan to her that had 
caused that loss. Ms D would then have had three years from December 2011 to 
complain to this service about the affordability of the loan - but she didnt do so.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Ms Ds failure to comply 
with those time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances. I sympathise with 
Ms D for the issues that shed had with her loan repayments but I dont consider that 
this service has jurisdiction to now consider a complaint about the affordability of the 
loan that GE Money made to her in September 2008.
Although I dont consider that this service has jurisdiction to consider a complaint 
about the affordability of the loan, I consider that it does have jurisdiction to consider 
a complaint about GE Moneys response to her section 75 claim. Ms Ds 
representative made a claim to GE Money under section 75 in January 2018 that the 
membership points had been mis-sold to Ms D. A complaint was then made to this 
service in April 2018 about GE Moneys response to Ms Ds section 75 claim. The 
event complained of was GE Moneys decision to turn down that claim and her complaint was referred to this service within six years of that happening - but I need 
to consider whether the Limitation Act applies to her claim.
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section 
are met). Ms Ds claim under section 75 is that the membership points were 
misrepresented to her and her representative has described the basis on which it 
says that the misrepresentations were made. Im not determining the outcome of that 
claim as only a court would be able to do that but Im considering whether or not GE 
Moneys response to her claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The time limit for a misrepresentation claim (whether under section 2 or section 9 of 
the Limitation Act) is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued 
(which is when everything needed to make a claim had occurred). I consider that Ms 
D could have made a claim to the holiday company or GE Money about the 
misrepresentations that she says induced her and her husband into entering into the 
acquisition agreement in September 2008 as that was the latest time that any 
misrepresentations would have been made to them. I consider that her cause of 
action accrued at that time, so she would have had six years from then to bring a 
misrepresentation claim against either the holiday company or GE Money. A claim 
wasnt made under section 75 until January 2018, more than nine years later, which 
was outside of the time limits set out in the Limitation Act. I consider that Ms Ds 
section 75 claim is now time-barred.
I consider that it was fair and reasonable for GE Money to say in September 2021 
that Ms Ds claims were time-barred under the Limitation Act. I consider that its offer 
to pay her £125 compensation for providing her with incorrect information was also 
fair and reasonable. I sympathise with Ms D for the issues that shes had with her 
membership points and the difficulties that shes described, but I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require GE Money to refund to 
her any of the money that she paid under the loan agreement, to pay her any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received from any of Ms D, her 
representative and GE Money, my provisional decision was that: this service doesnt have 
jurisdiction to consider a complaint about the affordability of the loan; and I dont uphold her 
complaint about GE Moneys response to her claim under section 75.
Ms D has responded to my provisional decision in detail. She says, in summary and 
amongst other things, that:
the focus has been on the time in which the claim should have been made but she 
doesnt believe that shes outside of time to submit a claim;
the holidays that were taken could have been paid for by the service charge alone 
which was far too expensive for what was given in exchange for it;
GE Money paid a commission to the holiday company for pushing products onto 
people who couldnt afford them and without checking their ability to repay the loans;
the residual value of the product was attractive to her; and
she was nave and wasnt aware of those issues in 2011 and her knowledge has 
been pieced together over many years.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision that I dont 
uphold her complaint about GE Moneys response to her claim under section 75. Ive issued 
a separate decision on the jurisdiction of this service to consider a complaint about the 
affordability of the loan.
Ive carefully considered Ms Ds response to my provisional decision but, for the reasons set 
out in that decision, I consider that Ms Ds section 75 claim is now time-barred and that it 
was fair and reasonable for GE Money to say in September 2021 that her claims were time-
barred under the Limitation Act. 
I sympathise with Ms D for the issues that shes had with her membership points and the 
difficulties that shes described, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require GE Money to refund to her any of the money that she paid 
under the loan agreement, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman