DRN-3183060
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr O have complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) mis-sold them 
two packaged bank accounts. The first was called a Privilege account and the second a 
Privilege Premier account.
The Co-op charged Mrs O and Mr O monthly fees for both accounts and provided several 
potential benefits in return. Mrs O and Mr O think that the Co-op should refund them all the 
fees they paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mrs O and Mr O have held a bank account with the Co-op for quite a long time. The Co-op 
has looked at its records for them and has told us that:
in May 2005, they opened a fee-free account,
in October 2006, it sold them the Privilege account, which replaced their fee-free 
account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in June 2010, it sold them the Privilege Premier account, which replaced their 
Privilege account and for which it charged them a higher monthly fee.
This account history is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate. I understand that 
Mrs O and Mr O kept the Privilege Premier account until at least early 2021, although Im not 
sure if they still have it. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs O and Mr Os complaint and didnt think 
that the Co-op had mis-sold them either the Privilege or the Privilege Premier account. Mrs 
O and Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mrs O and Mr Os case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mrs O and Mr O and the Co-op have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
During the time in question, the Co-op, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged 
bank accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-
only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach 
the Co-op used for Mrs O and Mr O, as well as giving them a choice, I would have expected 
it to tell them about the costs and benefits of both accounts clearly and fairly; and in an 
advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if they needed the benefits which the 
accounts could provide before making any recommendation or giving any advice.
Mrs O and Mr O and the Co-op have both told us that the Co-op sold them both accounts 
over the phone, but they have disagreed about whether it used advised for non-advised 
approaches. Mrs O and Mr O have said advised, and the Co-op has said non advised. 
There is no recording of either phone call, so I cant tell for sure what the Co-op said, or 
didnt say, to Mrs O and Mr O. But the Co-ops usual practice at the relevant times was to 
use a non-advised approach and I havent seen sufficiently convincing evidence to show me 
that it changed its usual process for Mrs O and Mr O. So, I have considered this complaint 
as being about two non-advised sales. 
Mrs O and Mr O have made very similar comments about the way the Co-op sold them both 
the Privilege and Privilege Premier accounts, but as there was a gap of around four years 
between the two events, I have looked into them separately.
The way the Co-op sold Mrs O and Mr O the Privilege account (October 2006)
The crux of Mrs O and Mr Os complaint about the way the Co-op sold them the Privilege 
account is that they believe it misled them over their overdraft. Theyve told us that they had 
an overdraft with their fee-free account but during the phone call the Coo-op told them they 
had to switch to the Privilege account to keep it. They now think this was wrong and they 
would have been able to keep an overdraft with their fee-free account. Theyve told us that 
during the call the Co-op left them in no doubt that only way to access a free overdraft in 
the future was to buy a Privilege account. And theyve said that the only reason they bought 
the Privilege account was because they wanted to keep the overdraft.
 
The type of current account a person holds gives little indication of his or her credit 
worthiness and banks rarely consider it to be a significant factor when deciding whether to 
arrange an overdraft. So, Mrs O and Mr Os current belief that they would have been able to 
keep their overdraft with their fee-free account is almost definitely correct (although, as Ill 
explain shortly, they may have had to pay more interest). If the Co-op told Mrs O and Mr O 
the opposite during a phone call, it would have been a serious failing.
At that time, one of the benefits that the Co-op provided to customers with Privilege accounts 
was that it did not charge interest on the first £100 of an overdraft. This did not usually apply 
to customers with fee-free accounts. The Co-op has sent us a copy of a letter about the 
Privilege account which it appears to have posted to Mrs O and Mr O shortly the phone call. 
The letter was just over a page long and when describing the overdraft, it said:
 ...Using the first £100 of this overdraft is free of charge. If you use more than the 
£100.00 or exceed the agreed overdraft limit, then our Account Charges leaflet 
explains what interest rates and charges you can expect to pay...
 
It seems highly likely to me that the Co-op talked about this during the phone call. It may 
even have told Mrs O and Mr O that they wouldnt get the benefit of the first £100 of any 
overdraft being free with their fee-free account. But, as this would have been true, it would 
have been a fair thing for the Co-op to say. 
I fully accept that Mrs O and Mr O are doing their best to remember what happened back in 
2006, but I doubt the Co-op told them they had to switch accounts to keep an overdraft. 
There would have been no reason for it to do this; it would have contradicted its own 
commercial position, negated Mrs and Mr Os recent experience and gone against general banking practices. I think its far more likely that the Co-op only told them about the 
overdraft-related benefits of the Privilege account. 
Mrs O and Mr O have also told us that while they had fee-free account they had been able 
to negotiate a free overdraft. They havent given us many details, but I accept this may well 
have happened. However, outside the limits of any individually negotiated terms, the Co-op 
would not have been obliged to continue this agreement for their fee-free account 
indefinitely. So, Im satisfied that the Co-op didnt do anything significantly wrong if it told Mrs 
O and Mr O they could not continue to have a free overdraft with a fee-free account..
Mrs O and Mr O have told us that the Co-op did explain the full benefits of the account both 
during the phone calls with them and (in) the subsequent information (it sent), so this is not 
in dispute. Similarly, there is little doubt that the Co-op told them about the monthly fees 
during the phone call, and the letter also set out the amount of the fees and when the Co-op 
would charge them. And I havent seen anything to make me think that the Co-op denied 
Mrs O and Mr O the option to keep their fee-free account; so, I dont think it mis-sold the 
Privilege account to them. 
The way the Co-op sold Mrs O and Mr O the Privilege Premier account (June 2010)
As mentioned earlier, Mrs O and Mr O have made very similar points about the Privilege 
Premier account to those they made about the Privilege account. And the Co-op seems to 
have followed a very similar process. It has sent us a copy of another letter, which again it 
seems to have posted to Mrs O and Mr O shortly after the relevant phone call. With respect 
to overdrafts, this letter said: 
Another of the benefits of this conversion is the interest and fee-free overdraft of 
£300, which we give you for that extra peace of mind. You will not pay any extra 
money for using this facility, as long as you do not go over the limit. If you do, our 
account charges leaflet will explain what you can expect to pay.
So, for the same reasons as with the Privilege account, Im satisfied that during the phone 
call, the Co-op probably described the overdraft-related benefits of the Privilege Premier 
account in a fair way. I doubt it told Mrs O and Mr O that they had to change accounts to 
keep their overdraft. I think it allowed them the choice to keep their Privilege account or go 
back to a fee-free account.
Again, there is no dispute that the Co-op told Mrs O and Mr O about the benefits of the 
Privilege Premier account or about its cost. So, I dont think that the Co-op mis-sold the 
Privilege Premier account to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs O and Mr Os complaint about 
The Co-operative Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman