DRN-3788667
The complaint
Miss L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided her with incorrect 
information about the future value of her pension savings. She says that, as a result of the 
incorrect information, she decided to withdraw part of her pension savings earlier than she 
would have if correct information had been provided to her.
What happened
Miss L holds pension savings with Aviva. She also holds additional pension plans with other 
providers. Miss L took early retirement in October 2019 and, in early 2021, she wrote to all of 
her pension providers to request information about her pension savings.
In August 2021 Aviva sent Miss L some information about her pension savings. That letter 
set out the current value of her investments, and provided projections of their future value. 
But Avivas calculations contained an error  it had assumed an annual charge of 17%, 
rather than the correct 0.17%, would be deducted from the pension investments. So that 
meant Avivas projections showed Miss L would lose approximately 65% of her pension 
savings by the time she reached age 65.
Miss L was concerned by the information Aviva had presented to her. So she decided to 
withdraw part of those pension savings immediately, and planned on taking the remainder of 
those funds in the following tax year. She also complained to Aviva about the charges that it 
was applying to her pension savings. Miss L says that she had a number of lengthy phone 
calls with Aviva about the situation.
On 1 October 2021 Aviva wrote to Miss L to explain that it had made an error in the 
information it had sent to her in August. Miss L says that she didnt receive that letter until 
12 October and by then her plans had been put in place. The payment that she had 
instructed was made to her on 2 November 2021.
When Miss L first complained to Aviva it agreed that it had failed to provide her with the 
correct information, or complete her payment in a timely manner. But it said that the delays 
to the payment hadnt caused Miss L to lose out. So it paid Miss L £200 to reflect the 
inconvenience shed been caused. Aviva later reviewed its response and paid a further £200 
to Miss L, meaning it had paid compensation of £400 in total. 
Miss Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that Miss L 
had been aware of the corrected information before the completion of her withdrawal. She 
thought that Miss L could have asked for the withdrawal to be cancelled once she had the 
revised valuation. So the investigator didnt think the error had caused Miss L to lose out. 
She thought that the £400 Aviva had paid to Miss L for her inconvenience was fair.
Miss L didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss L and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is no doubt that the information Aviva sent to Miss L in August 2021 was incorrect. 
That information showed annual charges of 17% being applied to Miss Ls pension 
investments, rather than the correct amount of 0.17%. The impact of charges at the incorrect 
level was that Miss Ls pension savings were expected to be greatly reduced in the years 
leading up to her 65th birthday. I have no doubts how distressing that information would have 
appeared to Miss L.
But what I need to decide here is whether that incorrect information caused Miss L to lose 
out. And in particular whether the receipt of the information caused Miss L to take actions 
that she might not have taken had correct information been provided.
Miss L has told us that, on seeing the expected reduction in her pension savings over the 
following years, she decided to withdraw them from her pension plan with Aviva. She says 
her plan was to take around half the pension savings in 2021, with the remainder being 
withdrawn the following year. As I have explained earlier, the first withdrawal was completed 
in November 2021.
It does seem to me that Miss L had a need for some income from her pension savings 
during 2021. She says she approached each of her pension providers for information about 
her pension savings. And more recently she has told our investigator that the money she 
withdrew from her Aviva pension in 2021 has now been spent. But I do need to consider how 
much Miss Ls decision to take the income from her Aviva pension was influenced by the 
incorrect information she was initially given.
I dont think it unreasonable to conclude that, when looking across the range of her pension 
savings, Miss L would have been greatly concerned by the level of charges that Aviva 
mistakenly told her that it would be applying to her pension savings. So, when deciding 
which pension plan to use to provide the income that she needed, I think it likely that 
Miss Ls choice of the Aviva fund was, at least to some extent, influenced by the incorrect 
charges information. 
But I dont have any information about the other pension plans from which Miss L could have 
taken the income she appears to have needed. So it might be that there were terms 
attached to those plans, such as guaranteed rates or market value adjustments, that made 
them less attractive to Miss L for her immediate income needs, and supported her choice of 
using the Aviva plan to provide the income payment.But I think the most compelling argument is the gap between the time at which Miss L 
received the letter from Aviva explaining the earlier error, and the time at which the income 
payment was completed. Although I entirely accept that Miss L had requested the payment 
be made before she was notified of the error, there was an extended period of almost three 
weeks before the payment completed. And during that time I can see that Miss L pressed 
Aviva to complete its processing of the payment on more than one occasion.
I think that, if the incorrect charges information had been the main reason that Miss L had 
chosen to take a withdrawal from the Aviva pension plan, she had ample opportunity to ask 
Aviva to allow her to alter, or rescind, that instruction. Given that Miss L didnt take those 
actions, and in fact pressed Aviva to process her instruction more quickly, Im not persuaded 
there is sufficient evidence to conclude that Miss L acted differently because of the error that 
Aviva had made.
I understand how distressing the receipt of the incorrect information would have been for 
Miss L. That showed her hard-earned pension savings being eroded at an alarming rate due 
to the charges Aviva said she would need to pay. And despite Miss L querying the 
information on a number of occasions, it was many weeks before Aviva identified the error 
and sent corrected information to Miss L. So I think it is right that Aviva has recognised the 
distress Miss L would have been caused. I think the payments Aviva has already made, 
totalling £400, are fair recompense for the impact of the error it made.
In summary, whilst Avivas error might have caused Miss L to start the actions she took in 
taking income from her pension plan, I think there was ample opportunity for her to reverse 
that decision once the correct information was provided. So Im not persuaded that Miss L 
lost out as a result of the incorrect information she was given. I think the compensation Aviva 
has already paid to Miss L for the distress she was caused is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or require Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited to pay any further compensation to Miss L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman