DRN-1726753
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his limited companys bank account. 
What happened
Mr O is a director of a limited company, V, which held a business account with HSBC. 
In early 2019, HSBC wrote to V to explain that it may request information about the way it 
trades as a company. HSBC said these checks needed to be completed so it could comply 
with certain obligations it must follow. So, in May 2019, HSBC sent V another letter 
explaining that an online form needed to be completed, which was available via the 
accounts internet banking facility. This letter said that if the information wasnt provided, 
HSBC may close Vs account. 
HSBC didnt receive the completed form. As a result, in July 2019, it sent V a letter giving 
notice that the closure of the account would take place on 4 October 2019. It told V to make 
alternative banking arrangements, as it would be withdrawing all of its facilities with HSBC. 
Mr O was unhappy about this, as hed tried to arrange for the information to be completed  
but an issue with his online banking profile had prevented him from doing so. In September 
2019, Mr O spoke to HSBC and explained that he had every intention of giving the 
information it had asked for. So, HSBC offered V a 30-day extension to complete the checks. 
During this call, HSBC also offered to fulfil the checks by scheduling in a phone appointment 
in early October 2019. And to resolve the issue Mr O had experienced, HSBC said he could 
email it information or fill out a relevant form online. HSBC claims to have not received the 
required information and that Mr O declined the telephone appointment. 
Because Mr O had made a complaint, HSBC sent a final response letter dated                     
27 September 2019. Amongst other things, this apologised for any confusion caused by the 
profile issue. Then, on 9 October 2019, HSBC sent a follow up letter to V, reiterating the 
agreed extension and that this would mean the deadline to complete the checks was no later 
than 8 November 2019. Again, this gave a further opportunity for V to go online and 
complete what was necessary  and if it didnt, HSBC said it would close the account. 
The next day, Mr O spoke to HSBC on the phone. He explained that, after receiving the 
letter, he tried the online form  but it was still not available to complete through Vs internet 
banking facility. 
HSBC pointed out that the required banner online that is used to bring up the form, 
wouldve started to show slightly after Mr O tried to access it. It assured Mr O that it was now 
available and agreed to send a letter to put this in writing. HSBC sent a letter the same day, 
setting out that the required link to the form went live on the online banking facility a couple 
of hours after the checks had been attempted  so V should try again. 
On 8 November 2019, HSBC hadnt received the information it had asked for, so it started 
the process of closing Vs account. Shortly afterwards, Mr O called to complain. He 
expressed that he thought it was unfair that the closure went ahead, as Vs internet banking 
facility had shown a deadline of the end of the year to complete the checks  so he thought 
he had more time to respond. 
HSBC sent another final response, dated 15 November 2019, which stated that it hadnt 
done anything wrong. It said that; alternative options had been offered to V to complete the 
checks; the deadline had been made clear in the letters it had sent; and it could see that Vs 
internet banking had been logged into leading up to the 8 November 2019  so it couldve 
submitted the form in time. Therefore, HSBC didnt re-open Vs account. 
Mr O remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and, ultimately, found that HSBC hadnt unfairly closed the 
account. HSBC agreed with this opinion. 
V does not agree. On its behalf, Mr O submits that HSBC shouldve honoured the deadline 
of the end of the year, as this was clearly presented when logging in online. And as a result 
of the account closure, V has been caused considerable financial loss as a business. 
Because V is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The regulator requires banks, such as HSBC, to have in place policies and procedures to 
adequately complete customer due diligence. Amongst other steps, this means HSBC must 
proactively seek out information about its customers to manage potential risks. Because this 
is a requirement, Im satisfied that HSBC didnt act unfairly in asking V to provide the 
information that it asked for. 
According to the terms and conditions of the account, HSBC was within its rights to close the 
account where it reasonably considered that V placed it in a position that it might not meet a 
duty, or some form of regulation. Further, these terms state that HSBC can close an account 
by giving at least two months notice.
Its not in dispute that the information required was not submitted by the final deadline HSBC 
gave of 8 November 2019. Therefore, HSBC took the decision to close the account. Overall, 
its my judgment that this was in keeping with the terms of the contract. Moreover, HSBC first 
set out the possibility of account closure as early as May 2019; and gave V clear notice in its 
letters in September and October 2019. So, I conclude that it closed the account fairly and in 
line with how it said it could in the agreement. 
I appreciate that Mr O may have encountered certain constraints with his online banking 
profile, which mightve restricted his ability to complete the checks himself on Vs behalf. 
Nevertheless, I can see that HSBC offered workarounds to this, including suggesting a 
telephone appointment and Mr O sending across information by email. Its my understanding 
that Mr O declined at least one of these options  which I can only assume couldve solved 
the issue or even resolved the checks entirely. Further, in October 2019, HSBC assured Mr O that the link to the online form was available 
and therefore the checks couldve been completed starting from shortly after their 
conversation. Mr O hasnt provided supportive evidence to substantiate that the problem(s) 
were still present with the banner online, for example a screen shot of Vs internet banking 
page proving the required link still did not exist. So, on balance, I am not persuaded that V 
was prevented from fulfilling what was required during the extension that HSBC granted. 
Having considered call recordings of conversations held between HSBC and Mr O, I 
recognise that the nature of V as a business places its directors in a position where time is 
not always easy to find. That said, Mr O and V are not before us as consumers but as 
commercial customers. Consequently, they had a responsibility to fulfil certain requests 
made in order to ensure that the companys banking facilities were properly managed and 
somewhat transparent; not least to comply with the contract they agreed to with HSBC. 
I cannot ignore that V was first told about these checks in early 2019 and therefore despite 
any problems had the space of over six months to fulfil what was asked of it. Indeed, once 
on notice of the issues V faced, HSBC granted an extension of no less than 30 days  when 
I understand the checks themselves should only have taken around half an hour. This, 
coupled with the workarounds previously offered, means that Im unable to accept that V 
could not reasonably have made the time to liaise with HSBC, to remedy any problems 
experienced so that the required information was provided in time.     
Its clear to me that Mr O strongly believes that HSBC ought to abide by the deadline that he 
says Vs online banking page presented i.e. the end of 2019, instead of early November 
2019. For the avoidance of doubt, he has not provided persuasive evidence of this alleged 
deadline. Nonetheless, Ive thought carefully about this argument. 
Whats made the difference in reaching my decision in this sense is the letter HSBC sent on 
27 September 2019. I say this because, this set out that the extension had been agreed and 
went on to specify that: Should you receive any further letter or the banner advising of any 
other dates other than the 30 days I have advised, please ignore this as should the review 
be incomplete following the 30 days, the Account will go into closure and we would be 
unable to stop this as part of the policy. 
Had V not been given such express instructions, for example if HSBC hadnt made it clear to 
ignore any conflicting deadline  I would be minded to give V the benefit of doubt, on the 
basis that it should generally be safe in relying on the timeframe presented on an internet 
banking page. However, because Im satisfied HSBC made things clear in prior letters, I do 
not find it reasonable to hold HSBC to any other deadline. 
Although I realise this will come as a disappointment to Vs directors, its my judgment that 
HSBC put in place a fair deadline and, ultimately, this was misinterpreted. Had careful 
attention been paid to this cut-off date and the required information provided by V  the 
account closure couldve been avoided. It follows that I do not require HSBC to do anything 
differently for the complaint, nor will I ask it to compensate V for any consequential loss it 
has incurred.My final decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman