DRN-3363034
The complaint
E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed its business and foreign currency
accounts and converted its funds from Euro into Sterling, causing it loss.
E is a business and is represented in this complaint by Mr L. For ease of reading throughout
this decision, Ill refer to all submissions as having been made by Mr L.
What happened
E held a business current account and a Foreign Currency Account (referred to as the FGN)
with HSBC. The funds in the FGN were held in Euro. In February 2019, HSBC closed the
current account and sent E a cheque for the closing balance. It later re-opened the account
and transferred the funds from the FGN into it, having converted them into Sterling. At that
point, the FGN was closed.
Mr L says he wasnt told this would happen and that E has lost out financially as a result. He
says the change in currency resulted in a loss to E. And he says that HSBC applied charges
to the business account after it was re-opened without his knowledge.
HSBC says it wrote to E before closing the accounts and didnt hear back. It says it couldnt
close the FGN in February 2019 because E hadnt provided details of an alternative account
where the funds could be transferred. It says it wrote to Mr L in February 2020 but didnt
hear from him. It re-opened Es current account so that the funds from the FGN could be
transferred into it. This transfer happened on 16 September 2020. The amount which
credited the current account that day was £149,170.34.
In late November 2020, HSBC sent Mr L a cheque for the balance of funds held in the
business account, less charges. But Mr L wanted the funds in Euro and didnt cash the
cheque. He gave HSBC details of a Euro account in early December 2020 and HSBC
transferred the funds on or around 11 December 2020. The amount transferred was
£101,090.61.
Mr L wasnt happy about the situation and asked this service to look into it. Our Investigator
didnt think HSBC had acted fairly. She asked it to refund the charges which had been
applied to the re-opened current account. She also thought that HSBC should pay E the
difference between the amount it would have received in Euro in September 2020 and the
amount in Euro that E actually received in December 2020.
But HSBC said that, after 16 September 2020, Mr L withdrew nearly £50,000 from the
current account. It didnt think it should have to pay the difference between the September
balance and what was paid to E in December 2020, as that would include the £50,000 which
Mr L himself had withdrawn.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 February 2022. Mr L accepted my findings for the most 
part. But he didnt think the compensation of £100 which Id recommended was enough. He 
said he thought the time hed spent dealing with the situation needed to be accounted for. 
He estimated this to be five days in total and said this was equivalent to £2,500 based on his 
daily rate. He also said that the lack of communication from HSBC had added to the distress 
of the situation. I gave HSBC the opportunity to respond to Mr Ls comments. But HSBC 
hasnt commented on those, nor on the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Ls comments and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I havent changed 
my mind about the appropriate outcome here. My reasons are set out below.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think HSBC acted reasonably when it closed Es 
current account in February 2019. Thats because it had asked E to comply with a 
mandatory review and didnt hear from E despite writing more than once. HSBC told E that it 
would close the account if it didnt hear back, and E didnt respond.
Mr L says he didnt receive the letters. I dont doubt what he says. But Im satisfied that the
letters were sent to the correct address. Mr L received the cheque which was sent to that
address in February 2019. So I cant safely conclude that its HSBCs fault if he didnt receive
the other letters.
Turning to the FGN, I havent seen the terms and conditions of that account, so I cant say
whether HSBC acted in line with its contractual obligations when closing it or converting the
funds to Sterling.
HSBCs letter of November 2018 about closure of the current account included the following
paragraph:
If you have any Foreign Currency account(s) please phone your relationship manager at
least 2 weeks before your accounts close to tell us what you wish to do with any credit
balances. For example, please tell us if you want us to transfer any credit balances to a new
bank or if you want us to carry out a conversion to sterling and send you a cheque.
But Mr L says he didnt receive this letter. He received the one in February 2019 enclosing
the cheque, but that didnt mention the FGN. I think this was a missed opportunity for HSBC
to explain that it planned to close the FGN and ask Mr L where to send the funds.
There was some contact between Mr L and HSBC in March 2019 about the closure of the
current account. This led to the account being locked when Mr L failed security. I havent
seen anything to suggest that HSBC made any contact with Mr L after that until 2020.
HSBC says it wrote to E in late February 2020 asking for details of where to send the funds
from the FGN. HSBC no longer has a copy of the letter but says it had to contact E by letter
rather than telephone because of the security lock on the account. Its not clear to me if the
letter was about the funds in the FGN or simply about account security.
In any event, nothing happened after this until September 2020 when HSBC re-opened the
current account. It then converted the funds in the FGN and transferred them to the current
account, closing the FGN afterwards. It was shortly after this that Mr L called HSBC, after a
client had problems making a payment to Es account. Nothing was discussed in any detail
at that point because of the security issues on the account. So it wasnt until October 2020
that Mr L discussed the closure of the FGN with HSBC. He wasnt happy that the funds had
been converted and wanted the money in Euro.Looking at this chain of events, I dont think HSBC did enough here to make Mr L aware that
the FGN was going to be closed and that he needed to provide alternative bank details. Im
not satisfied that HSBC took any steps in relation to the FGN (at least, nothing of which Mr L
could have been aware) until around 19 months after the current account was closed. I
havent seen anything to suggest that it told Mr L that it was going to close the FGN at that
point or that it was going to convert the funds to Sterling and move them to the re-opened
current account. I dont think that was reasonable.
Once Mr L was aware of what had happened, he opened a Euro account elsewhere so that
the funds could be paid into it. I think this suggests that he would have done that earlier if
hed known he needed to. But he didnt know until September or October 2020 because he
says he didnt receive the letter in November 2018, and I cant see that HSBC wrote to him
about it at all after that.
In these circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable for HSBC to convert the funds into
Sterling and I think it should reimburse E for any loss it suffered as a result of the currency
conversions (both when it changed the Euro into Sterling in September 2020 and when it
changed the Sterling back into Euro in December 2020).
I think HSBC needs to put E in the position it would have been in if no currency conversions
had taken place. The funds in the FGN were in Euro. But for HSBCs mistakes, the funds
could have been transferred straight from there to Es new Euro account. So there would
have been no loss to E. HSBC should calculate the loss suffered by E upon each currency
conversion (the Losses). It should then reimburse E for the Losses together with interest on
each Loss from the day of the relevant currency conversion until reimbursement.
I also think that HSBC should refund the charges it applied to the current account after it was
re-opened. The account was re-opened by HSBC of its own accord, without Es knowledge.
So I dont think it was fair for HSBC to apply charges.
Turning to the amount of time Mr L says hes spent dealing with this, I do understand his 
frustration and I can understand that the lack of communication from HSBC has added to 
this. We dont make specific awards for someones time, or calculate it using a set amount 
such as an hourly or daily rate. But we can take account of the inconvenience someone 
experiences and the impact that spending time on the complaint has.
When I made my provisional decision, I gave careful thought to what Mr L had said about 
this. But, as I explained, the complainant here is E, not Mr L. A business cant experience 
suffering or distress. But a person who is a director and/or owner of a business can. Im 
satisfied that, in his capacity as director of the business, Mr L experienced distress and 
inconvenience. But I dont think all of that was the fault of HSBC. For example, time spent 
searching for and setting up new accounts would have had to be spent anyway, even if 
HSBC had handled the account closures differently. 
Its very difficult to put a monetary value on the stress and inconvenience caused by a 
situation like this. Our awards arent intended to punish a business but to try to reflect the 
impact of the situation. HSBC has already paid compensation of £100 for the issues over the 
account security. I think a further payment is warranted to reflect the impact of the situation 
with the FGN. But, looking at everything again, and balancing the evidence of the parties, I 
still think a further £100 is a fair amount. I realise Mr L thinks HSBC should pay much more 
and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont think a higher amount is justified here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should:calculate the loss suffered by E upon each currency conversion (the Losses);
reimburse E for the Losses together with simple interest on each Loss at 8% a year
from the day of the relevant currency conversion until reimbursement;
refund all charges applied to the current account after it was re-opened; and
pay further compensation of £100 to Mr L as a director of E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman