DRN-3421831
The complaint
Miss P complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided lending that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Miss P borrowed from Everyday Loans as follows:
LoanDate 
takenAmount TermMonthly 
repaymentLoan status
1 18/12/2017 £1,00024
months£122.67 Paid on 22/08/2018 
using loan 2
222/08/2018 £2,000 24
months£223.30 unknown
When Miss P complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought 
her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and she didnt think 
Everyday Loans should have provided the loans. Our adjudicator set out directions indicating 
what Everyday Loans should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans hasnt responded to our adjudicators view and the deadline for responses 
has now expired. So, as the complaint hasnt been settled, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with our adjudicator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
When assessing these loan applications, Everyday Loans asked Miss P about her income 
and expenses  including what she spent on her credit commitments. It also did its own 
credit checks to understand Miss Ps credit history and it has sent me copies of the bank 
statements it looked at before lending loan 3. 
Everyday Loans recorded Miss Ps monthly income was around £1,918 when she took out 
loan 1 and £1,203 around the time of loan 2. Everyday Loans also took into account 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Miss Ps likely spending and included an 
additional buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional expenses. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans said Miss P shouldve been able to afford the monthly 
repayments on these loans. 
Like our adjudicator, I think the checks Everyday Loans carried out were broadly 
proportionate. But despite recording information that appeared to show that Miss P had 
enough spare cash each month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think Everyday 
Loans shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information. Thats because what Miss P 
had declared was significantly at odds with what Everyday Loans saw on its credit checks 
showing Miss Ps credit history.  
As part of my independent review of this complaint I've thought carefully about what I think a 
responsible lender should have made of the information Everyday Loans gathered before 
providing these loans. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she felt Everyday Loans should have realised that 
Miss P was evidently in financial difficulty when she applied for both these loans. Everyday 
Loans hasnt said it disagrees with anything our adjudicator has said. And having reviewed 
the information it had available, including up to date credit reports that showed multiple 
defaults and over-reliance on expensive high cost credit, as well as the information seen on 
the bank statements Miss P provided, I agree  I think Everyday Loans should not have 
provided these loans when it was apparent that Miss P was already financially over-
stretched. I think the clear indications were that although she was making inroads into some 
of her problematic debt, the fact she was applying for further credit suggested she needed to 
borrow elsewhere to be able to do this. 
I also dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account that Miss Ps monthly income 
included benefits that were paid based on her circumstances and specifically intended to 
help cover other costs  not repay additional debt. So, to my mind, the affordability 
assessment it relied on didnt provide a realistic or fair basis for working out what, if anything, 
she could in reality, afford to borrow. And I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully 
enough about other clear signs of money problems that were apparent, including the fact 
that Miss P had payment problems with a utility account and she was in an arrangement to 
pay her council tax. This suggested that she had no surplus cash to pay for extra borrowing. 
To sum up, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Miss P didnt have available 
income to be able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way, regardless of what its 
affordability calculations appeared to show. In reality, she was over-reliant on credit to 
subsidise her everyday costs and fund her borrowing. So I dont think Everyday Loans 
shouldve provided either of these loans. As Miss P has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on loans that she 
shouldnt have been provided with she has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong. I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Miss P hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Miss P in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss P to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for loans that 
should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Miss P shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss P received as a result of having been given 
these loans. The repayments Miss P made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Miss P having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss P bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Miss Ps credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by decisions to lend loans that it 
shouldnt have provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative 
information recorded on Miss Ps credit file regarding the loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ps complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman