DRN-3209628
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has unfairly 
declined their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a family annual multi-trip travel policy through their bank account. In 
2019 they booked a trip abroad, including internal flights. They were due to travel in July 
2020. 
As a result of the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advising against all but essential travel to the 
country Mr and Mrs D were due to visit, they had to cancel the trip. They were able to obtain 
refunds for the other aspects of their holiday but submitted a claim to AIG for the cost of 
some internal flights.
AIG declined the claim. It said that the policy didnt provide cover for costs that could be 
recovered elsewhere and, as Mr and Mrs D had been offered a credit for the cost of the 
flights to use on a future booking, AIG said this was a form of refund.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this outcome. They said they had no intention of travelling 
to that country due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Mr and Mrs D complained to AIG and then 
brought the complaint to this service. Whilst our investigator was looking into the matter, AIG 
made contact to say it had reconsidered its position. It noted the credit voucher was due to 
expire in October 2021 and so it offered to pay the costs of the internal flights if it received 
confirmation that Mr and Mrs D had not used the credit voucher and that the voucher had not 
been extended. 
Our investigator told Mr and Mrs D about the offer and the request from AIG for information 
about the voucher. Mr and Mrs D made contact with the airline who confirmed that the credit 
was still valid until August 2022. This was because Mr and Mrs D had used the voucher to 
book more flights for August 2021 which they had subsequently cancelled  Mr and Mrs D 
said they only booked these flights in order to keep the credit rolling over.
Our investigator considered the complaint but as Mr and Mrs D had been offered the credit 
voucher, she found this should be considered as they had recovered their costs. And as the 
policy only covered claims for costs that you can get back, she said it was reasonable for 
AIG to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our investigators view. They said it is clear that the flight costs 
were not recoverable by way of a refund and so this should be paid by AIG. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The policy Mr and Mrs D provides cover for the cancellation of trips for certain listed events. 
The relevant part of the policy for this complaint says the following:
Section A  Cancelling your trip
What you are covered for
We will pay up to £7,500 for:
travel and accommodation expenses which you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you cannot get back
The reason given by AIG for refusing the claim is that the costs of the flights are recoverable. 
AIG has said that, as Mr and Mrs D were offered a refund of the cost of the flight tickets, 
albeit in the form of credit voucher, this is not covered by the policy. 
From looking at Mr and Mrs Ds policy terms and conditions quoted above it, like most, if not 
all, travel insurance policies on the market, only provides cover for costs you cannot get 
back, otherwise known as irrecoverable losses. This is because insurance is designed to 
indemnify the policyholder only if they are unable to reclaim their losses from any other 
source. As Mr and Mrs D have been offered a credit for the cost of the flights by the airline, 
which could be used at a later date, this would mean that they have recovered their loss.  
So, I think it is fair for AIG to say Mr and Mrs D dont have any irrecoverable travel costs, and 
therefore havent suffered a financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs D said they didnt want to travel to that particular country due to the Covid-19 
outbreak. At the point the complaint was made they would have been unable to travel due to 
the travel restrictions in place  but these have since been relaxed. And as I understand it, 
the credit voucher is still valid for another seven months  until August 2022. 
Ive also noted the comments Mr and Mrs D have made about how it is unlikely they would 
travel together as a family now due to the ages of their children. Ive thought about this 
carefully, however, I must consider that Mr and Mrs D had originally booked to visit the 
country where the airline operates, and, whilst I appreciate they may no longer wish to go, 
Ive seen no evidence which persuades me there is any significant or exceptional reasons 
why they couldnt book to visit that country again now that travel restrictions have been lifted. 
Should Mr and Mrs D be prevented from travelling prior to the expiry date of the voucher, I 
would suggest that they contact AIG in the first instance so it can reconsider.
Overall, I dont think it unreasonable for AIG to say that Mr and Mrs D can make use of the 
voucher. And Im satisfied the terms of the voucher arent so restrictive to make it unusable 
for Mr and Mrs D. So therefore, I dont think AIG has to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman