DRN-3829658
The complaint
Ms M complains about QIC Europe Limited (QIC) who declined her claim on her buildings 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M made a claim on her buildings insurance policy that she held with QIC, for her 
collapsed boundary wall. She wasnt present when the wall had fallen, but as there was 
some construction taking place near the wall, she asked the contractors whether they had hit 
it. As she felt a construction vehicle had collided with the wall causing the damage.  The 
contractors denied hitting the wall. 
Ms Ms claim was investigated by QIC who ultimately declined the claim. It said that the 
damage to the wall was caused by wear and tear given the age of the wall. It said that there 
was no evidence of a collision having taken place. And it gave Ms M her referral rights. 
Ms M referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint 
and thought that it should be upheld. She found that under the policy there was cover for 
damage caused by collisions. She also found that there were exclusions on the policy 
namely if there was wear and tear found, then a claim could be declined. But she said that 
the onus was on QIC to show that the exclusion applied. And she didnt think QIC had fairly 
shown this. She based this on QICs field surveyors report, that concluded that the damage 
was caused by a collision.  
She also said that when she compared QICs in-house surveyors report she didnt think the 
conclusion that there was no paint seen on the wall. And that it was feasible that if the wall 
had been in such poor condition, it should have fallen all at once, which wasnt the case. So, 
she recommended that QIC re-assess the claim under the remaining policy terms and that it 
award Ms M £175 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Ms M accepted the view. QIC did not. It said that its decision that it made, that there was no 
cover for the boundary wall was correct. As there was no evidence that the wall had been 
struck by a vehicle. There was evidence of wear and tear as there was crumbling mortar and 
the individual separation of the bricks, indicated that the wall was in poor condition. So, it 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Ms M made a claim to QIC for a damaged boundary wall. Although she wasnt present when 
the wall was damaged, she believed that it had become damaged due to work that was 
being carried out on land next to her wall. Ms M explains that she felt that the wall had been 
collided into by a contractors vehicle, causing the wall to collapse. 
QIC sent a field surveyor to assess the damage and to take photos. His report and the 
photos were then reviewed by QICs in-house surveyor. The in-house surveyor concluded 
that the damage to the wall was caused by wear and tear. They felt that there was no 
evidence of a collision as there was no paint on the wall. It seems that the in-house surveyor 
had reached their conclusions primarily on the basis of the photographs, as there is no 
evidence that they attended the site. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and Im satisfied that cover on the policy is 
available for collisions: Collision damage. We will cover loss or damage caused by being hit 
by: a. an animal, vehicle or train: or b. aircraft or other flying device (or any items dropped 
from these). 
The issue here is the cause of the damage to the wall. Ms M has provided evidence from 
contractors she used. That contractor has concluded that the damage to the wall was due to 
impact from a vehicle. Also, having reviewed QICs field surveyor report, it said the following: 
It is believed that the builders have hit the garden wall and caused this to come down. 
Evidence of a bend arris fence panel and pole can be seen and the area of impact is 
believed to be in the centre of the wall. The wall is 18.7m long and 2.2m high the whole wall 
has been affected from the impact. The surveyor goes on to conclude that: I cannot see any 
other way this has fallen down. No trees or previous leans are apparent.
From this evidence, the field surveyor provides information of what he actually saw  namely 
a bent arris fence panel and pole. He also provides information on how the wall became 
damaged. In that the only way he thought the wall came down was due to an impact having 
occurred. 
The in-house surveyor (whom I note didnt have the benefit of physically inspecting the wall, 
unlike the field surveyor) only carried out an inspection of photos. From the photos, the in-
house surveyor deduced that there was no paint on the walls (from being hit). In addition, it 
said that when a wall that is in good condition falls, it breaks into chunks. Here the wall broke 
into individual bricks, which indicated that the mortar was in a poor state. So, this indicates 
that the damage was caused due to wear and tear and not due to a collision. 
Given there are two consistent reports that conclude that the damage to the wall was due to 
an impact, and that both the field surveyor and independent contractor carried out visual 
physical inspections of the wall. Im persuaded that the damage to the wall was more likely 
than not, caused by an impact. Also, I note the damage to the arris fence panel that was 
bent and a pole. I think its reasonable that an impact wouldve caused this type of damage.
Based on all of the evidence, I dont think QIC have been fair to decline the claim under the 
policy exclusion of wear and tear. And I dont think it has provided enough evidence to show 
that the damage to the wall wasnt caused by an impact.  To be fair to both parties, I think 
QIC ought to re-assess the claim under the remaining policy terms. Also, given the impact 
this had on Ms M, I think its fair and reasonable for QIC to acknowledge this and pay 
compensation of £175, for the trouble and upset caused.
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct QIC as below. My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
QIC Europe Limited to re-assess the claim under the remaining policy terms. 
QIC Europe Limited must pay Ms M £175 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
QIC Europe Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms M 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If QIC Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman