DRN-3502378
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
{SLAC} mis-sold them a whole of life policy in 1992.
What happened
In 1992, Mrs P and Mr P met with a representative from a product provider that has since 
been acquired by SLAC with SLAC taking on responsibility for the sale of the policy.
The policy, which was a reviewable whole of life policy, carried several benefits. These 
included joint life cover, additional accidental death benefit and income protection for Mrs P 
and Mr P. 
In 2021, Mrs P and Mr P complained to SLAC that the policy had been mis-sold. They said 
the policy exclusions weren't fully explained at the start of the policy, their employers sick-
pay would have been enough for their needs, the policy didnt cover redundancy cover and it 
wasnt made clear the benefits could diminish over time. Mrs P and Mr P also complained 
they werent told that SLAC paid commission to the adviser. SLAC provided a final response 
and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs P and Mr P werent happy with the response from SLAC and brought the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where an Investigator looked into things. The Investigator 
considered the evidence and comments provided and thought that SLAC hadnt mis-sold the 
policy and hadnt done anything significantly wrong. Mrs P and Mr P didnt agree with the 
Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint, so its now been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the policy took place in 1992, which is 30 years ago. Mrs P and Mr P say they 
dont recall being told how the policy worked or that the benefits and exclusions were 
discussed with them at the time. SLAC has provided copies of the personal finance analysis 
the adviser completed with Mrs P and Mr P prior to the sale, and copies of the illustrations, 
product schedule, product brochure and terms and conditions of the policy. Ive noted Mr Ps 
comment that he doesnt recall the adviser assessing their needs, but the personal finance 
analysis contains a detailed record of their personal circumstances at the time. Its not simply 
a record of their dates of birth, salaries, and ages of their children as Mr P suggested. And in 
my opinion, it contains enough information for the adviser to agree the needs of Mrs P and 
Mr P and make a recommendation how any shortfalls in protection could be met.  SLAC has 
also provided copies of regular reviews it says were sent to Mrs P and Mr P, but I note Mrs P 
and Mr P say they dont recall receiving these.
I dont think its unusual Mrs P and Mr P say they cant recall being told of the details of the 
policy as it was sold so long ago. So, I took this into account along with the documents 
provided from the time of the sale and made my decision based on what I thought is more 
likely to have happened. I understand Mrs P and Mr P will be disappointed, but Ive decided 
that in the circumstances of this case, the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will now explain why.
Policy exclusions
Mrs P and Mr P say they werent told what the policy exclusions were at the time of the sale. 
SLAC hadnt underwritten the policy when Mrs P and Mr P applied for it, so I consider its 
unlikely the adviser could specifically identify any exclusions to the policy at the point of sale. 
However, Ive seen the schedule for the policy that was issued after the underwriting had 
been completed, and there are no exclusions listed. Ive compared the policy schedule with 
the earlier illustration provided, which referred Mrs P and Mr P to the relevant documents 
that provided details of the policy, and I cant see any significant difference in benefits, or 
that there were any exclusions. I dont consider SLAC did anything wrong in this regard.
Redundancy cover
Mr P says he first became aware the policy may have been mis-sold when he was recently 
made redundant and saw the policy didnt cover redundancy. Whilst this may be linked to the 
complaint about policy exclusions, Ive looked at it separately. 
The policy illustrations and policy schedule Ive seen show Mrs P and Mr P had income 
replacement benefit if they became sick or disabled. The product brochure from the time, 
which I consider more likely than not Mrs P and Mr P were provided with, explains this. I 
havent seen anything in any of the documents provided to indicate there was any 
redundancy cover provided by the policy. The schedule is quite specific in explaining this is a 
benefit paid for incapacity after a deferment period payable until a specific age or recovery.
Whilst there may have been a misunderstanding of the benefits provided here, Ive decided 
the evidence supports SLAC was unlikely to have told Mr P the policy provided redundancy 
cover.
Employers sick pay 
Mrs P and Mr P say the income benefit provided wasnt needed as the employers paid them 
if they were off work sick. Ive seen that at the time of the sale, SLAC and Mrs P and Mr P 
completed a personal finance analysis that included details of what each of their employers 
paid if they were off-sick. In the case of Mr P his employer would pay 100% of his salary for 
three months, and in the case of Mrs P, her employer would pay 100% of her salary for six 
months. And that the employers didnt pay long-term income replacement. The same 
document records that protecting income was a very high priority for Mrs P and Mr P at the 
time of the sale.
It seems more likely than not SLAC identified a need for income protection cover over the 
longer term, so I dont consider that this element of the policy was mis-sold. Although Mrs P 
and Mr P say they the policy didnt meet their needs in this regard, Im satisfied that at the 
time of the sale its more likely than not it did.
The benefits of the policy
Mrs P and Mr P say they werent made aware at the time of the sale that the benefits within 
the policy could diminish. Ive seen an illustration of the benefits of the policy and a copy of 
the policy schedule. Both of these documents refer Mrs P and Mr P to relevant 
accompanying documents. One of these documents is the terms and conditions of the 
policy. This document explains how the policy worked and specifically explained the benefits would be reviewed regularly after the first five years, and that an increase in premiums may 
be required to maintain the level of protection required. In these types of policy, the cost of 
life cover will increase as the lives assured get older. The terms and conditions explain that 
as mortality charges increase this could lead to increased premiums, or by inference 
reduced benefits. So, I consider its more likely than not SLAC did provide information 
confirming the premiums and benefits were subject to review at the time of the sale.
Commission
I acknowledge Mrs P and Mr Ps view that SLAC shouldve disclosed the commission it paid 
to the adviser when the policy was sold. However, there was no regulatory requirement at 
the time of the sale for SLAC to do so. I therefore cannot reasonably conclude that SLAC did 
anything wrong in this regard.
Ive considered all of the comments Mrs P and Mr P provided but I want to ensure Ive 
addressed one concern Ive not addressed above. Mrs P and Mr P say the policy has 
benefited SLAC more than them because if theyd have saved the premiums, they would 
have a similar amount to the benefits the policy provided. Unfortunately, that is not how 
insurance policies work. The provider took on the risk of providing the full benefits from the 
day the policy was taken out, and it would have been many years before Mrs P and Mr P 
would reasonably have saved more than the benefits provided. I consider this comment has 
been made with the benefit of hindsight and doesnt take into account the policy was more 
likely than not suitable for Mrs P and Mr Ps needs at the time of the sale.
Im satisfied that at the time of the sale, the personal finance analysis supports that SLAC 
identified a need for life cover for a non-specific term and for additional family protection. 
And, SLAC further identified a need for income protection in case Mrs P and Mr P couldnt 
work because of a long-term disability or illness. As the policy recommended met these 
needs, Ive decided that it wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint that Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited mis-sold the whole of life policy taken out in 1992.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman