DRN-3643857
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) handling of a claim 
made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr C noticed damp in his property and reported this to Lloyds, his home 
insurance provider. Lloyds carried out an inspection and determined the cause was an issue 
with the drains, due to poor installation. Lloyds said the drain repairs wouldnt be covered 
under Mr Cs policy, but the damage caused by the escape of water would be.
Mr C arranged for the drains to be repaired so Lloyds could deal with the escape of water 
damage.
Drying was carried out but this wasnt successful. Further strip out works were completed, 
and further drying was required. It was also thought there was another leak, which was 
adding to the drying being unsuccessful.
When the property was eventually deemed dry, it was identified that some of the kitchen 
units were water damaged, so needed replacing. This is something Mr C had raised 
concerns about but hadnt been recognised by Lloyds. This caused further delays in repairs 
being able to be completed.
In addition to the delays in repairs commencing, the repairs which were then completed were 
carried out poorly. Lloyds agreed to cover the cost of Mr C obtaining his own contractors to 
finish the works.
Mr C raised several complaints during the course of the claim. This included alleged 
exposure to asbestos, the time taken for drying and repairs and the quality of repairs. 
Over the course of the claim and complaints, Lloyds offered a total of £1,325 compensation. 
Mr C was unhappy with this amount and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into matters. There was some initial confusion as Lloyds asked her 
to make an offer of compensation to Mr C on their behalf. Whereas the amount they outlined 
was actually what they had already offered, and they werent proposing to increase this.
The investigator re-reviewed things, and ultimately, she said what Lloyds had already offered 
was fair, so she didnt recommend they increase the level of compensation.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend on commenting individually on every event or action that occurred throughout 
the history of the claim. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, but both parties are 
already aware of what has happened. And Lloyds accepts there have been service failings, 
which is why they offered compensation during the course of the claim and complaints. 
Instead, Ill focus on what I believe is important in reaching a decision which is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And Ill briefly reference some of the key 
things that happened. Having said that though, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive 
considered all the information theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
During the claim, Lloyds offered a total of £1,325 compensation and addressed several 
complaints made by Mr C. This is summarised as follows:
April 2021 final response - £550 compensation offered. Primarily given for delays in 
investigating why Mr Cs property wasnt drying. Lloyds also explained the property 
was safe from exposure to asbestos. They also noted that alternative 
accommodation was offered but refused and the kitchen units would be replaced if 
damaged.
August 2021 final response (and a follow up letter in September 2021) - £75 
compensation offered. Primarily given for the kitchen units not being inspected, and 
the resultant delays. It also outlined Lloyds wouldnt replace the worktops, and theyd 
received confirmation asbestos wasnt airborne, and testing had been carried out.
November 2021 final response - £700 compensation offered. Primarily given for poor 
workmanship during repairs, delays and poor service overall.
So, Lloyds accepts things went wrong and this is why they offered compensation. I need to 
decide whether the compensation theyve offered is reasonable.
Having looked at what happened, I can see some of the key reasons the claim took the 
length it did was due to drying not being completed correctly from the outset, a drying 
certificate being issued, but the damp levels immediately returning. As a result, another 
drying company were appointed to dry the property, and this resulted in the drying taking a 
lot longer than expected.
There was also another leak which was identified when the damp kept returning, and this 
needed resolving before drying could be completed effectively. This meant investigating 
where it was coming from, and how to repair it.
And when drying was eventually completed, and works started, it was discovered some of 
the kitchen units were damaged so new units needed to be obtained  which delayed things. 
I also note that this was a concern Mr C had raised much earlier in the claim, during drying, 
so likely couldve been avoided if Lloyds had identified and recognised this then.When repairs were eventually carried out, the workmanship was poor. Ultimately the 
contractors were appointed by Lloyds, so it was their responsibility to put things right. The 
contractor didnt agree with the concerns raised by Mr C, which meant Lloyds needed to 
investigate, and when they did, they agreed with the concerns Mr C had raised. Lloyds then 
suggested Mr C appoint his own contactors to complete repairs with them covering the cost. 
But this didnt go smoothly, as Lloyds asked for an asbestos specialist to attend, when the 
property wasnt actually ready for them to carry out works. 
As I say, Ive only briefly summarised some of the key points. But its clear things didnt go as 
planned, and the timescale was extended significantly because of this. And when things did 
appear to be back on track, further issues arose which required putting right and this caused 
additional delays.
When considering whether the amount of compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, Ive considered what happened in the claim overall. And whilst I 
acknowledge Mr C has said he is happy with parts of the compensation offered by Lloyds 
throughout the claim for specific periods, and unhappy with others, Ive considered 
everything that happened, overall, when deciding the appropriate amount. And having done 
so, Im satisfied the £1,325 already offered by Lloyds is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances overall for what happened, so Im not going to direct them to increase this 
amount.
Mr C has also raised concerns that his household was exposed to asbestos, he says as a 
result of Lloyds appointed contractors actions. However, whilst I do recognise the concerns 
Mr C has due to asbestos being discovered in his flooring, the information provided indicates 
that the asbestos was sealed into the floor and bound into adhesive. And the various parties 
involved have reassured Mr C that the relevant requirements were followed. An Asbestos air 
test was also carried out which indicated the air was safe.  Whilst I note Mr C says he 
accepts this; hes also said that there is no way to tell the levels before the air test was 
carried out. 
Mr C has also raised concerns that his worktops were contaminated due to the asbestos 
exposure, but there hasnt been any expert evidence provided which shows this is the case. 
I recognise Mr Cs strength of feelings on the matter. But based on the evidence provided, 
and mentioned above, Im unable to conclude that Lloyds (and their appointed contractors) 
actions have been unsafe and exposed Mr C and his household to asbestos, or that the 
worktops should be replaced. 
I also note that Lloyds has said alternative accommodation was offered but refused. And 
whilst I note Mr C disputes this, the information provided does reflect this. 
Lloyds did mention in their final response in August 2021 that if Mr C has evidence of 
exposure or contamination, such as from a suitably qualified professional, then he should 
submit it for consideration. I dont think Lloyds position here is unfair or unreasonable, based 
on what Ive seen.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £1,325 to settle 
the complaint and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should pay the £1,325 
compensation offered, if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman