DRN-3876743
The complaint
Miss T has complained about the poor service she received and delays caused by QIC 
Europe Ltd when it dealt with a flood claim she made under her home and buildings 
insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer QIC in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In October 2021 Miss Ts home was damaged by a flood. She made a claim to QIC. Miss T 
says the initial part of her claim was handled well and drying works were prompt. But she 
says the service she received from QIC after this was very poor. In summary she 
complained about its handling of the claim for contents, for buildings, and how it dealt with 
her being moved into alternative accommodation (AA). 
Miss T was very concerned about her living situation as QIC told her the policy provides AA 
for a maximum of twelve months. In November 2022 Miss T says she was advised by QICs 
appointed contractors that works would begin on her home after Christmas 2022. 
In response to our request for its business file, QIC made an offer of compensation of £500 
for the delays and poor service it had provided during the claim which we forwarded to Miss 
T. 
Miss T didnt accept QICs offer. Our Investigator recommended Miss Ts complaint should 
be upheld. He thought QIC had caused unnecessary delays and poorly handled the claim. 
He recommended QIC do the following:
Increase the compensation offered to £900 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Provide the option of AA for a further four months in light of the delays caused. 
As the SOW hadnt been finalised as at November 2022, the Investigator explained that Miss 
T would be entitled to raise a new complaint about this with QIC. 
Miss T accepted the Investigators findings. QIC agreed to pay £900 compensation. But it 
said Miss T was responsible for some of the delays as it was waiting for her to obtain a 
quote from a builder before deciding whether to accept a cash settlement offer or use their 
appointed contractors. So it said it would cover the costs of AA for a further two months. 
The Investigator explained that part of the delay was caused by QICs Scope of Works 
(SOW) requiring amendment and so it was difficult for Miss T to obtain an accurate quote to 
know what decision to make. 
QIC didnt agree. It said the SOW will be amended throughout the life of a claim such as this 
one. As it doesnt agree, it wants an ombudsman to decide. 
Miss T has provided further information on 16 January 2023 to support her complaint which 
Ive reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold it in line with the Investigators recommendations. 
I dont intend to set out the timeline provided by both parties in the same level of detail. Miss 
T has provided substantive information including copies of all emails in the QIC portal and a 
detailed timeline of events from October 2021. 
While it took some time for Miss T to obtain and provide a quote in order to assess whether 
QICs cash settlement was fair, overall I think QIC caused unreasonable delays in the 
handling of the claim. Key parts of its handling were:
- It offered a cash settlement for the contents of the claim for around £8,000 less than 
it settled - as Miss T disputed its settlement. There was back and forth where its 
clear Miss T was unhappy that QIC hadnt included items that should have been 
when it made its offer . Miss T says she felt pressure to accept a cash settlement 
even though it didnt include all of her contents. QIC settled Miss Ts contents claim 
in February 2022.
- Following an initial inspection of the property in November 2021, a revised SOW was 
produced in February 2022. But this was incomplete and due to Miss Ts concerns, a 
Surveyor met with Miss T at the property in April 2022 and a revised SOW was 
produced.
- In June 2022 Miss T was able to provide a quote from a building contractor for the 
works. The estimate was substantially more than the cash settlement QIC offered. 
- As QIC didnt accept the builders quote, it was agreed that QIC instructed an 
approved contractor to arrange repairs. 
- QIC say a SOW was finalised for agreement in September 2022 and works began in 
October 2022. In November 2022 Miss T told us the contractor told her works 
couldnt begin until 2023. Miss T says she remains unhappy with the condition of her 
property and the clean out of her fridge and the flooring - before repair works begin.
- Miss T says she had to put in considerable time searching for AA and when she 
found suitable AA she had to chase QIC for approval. As QIC didnt respond 
promptly, she says she lost out on AA and had to begin searching again. Miss T says 
she was in full time work and her time involved in the claim due to QICs poor service 
made an already stressful time even worse. Miss T says she had to pay for AA by 
credit card - and has had to use the contents settlement money to pay for AA while 
waiting for QIC to approve and reimburse her. 
QIC accept that a small number of items were excluded for contents in its initial settlement. 
However, the difference was approximately £8,000 as QICs initial settlement offer was in 
the region of £3,000. And it agrees it caused delays in its handling of AA payments at an 
already difficult time for Miss T. 
It says that if Miss T had opted to use their approved contractors sooner, the works would 
have begun sooner. However, Miss T was advised by QIC to expect delays if using its 
contractors due to Covid 19 and Brexit. And QIC accepts that due to its long wait times, it did 
offer Miss T a cash settlement. 
But because the SOW provided by QIC was incomplete and didnt include all of the required 
works, this made it difficult for Miss T to obtain a quote. When she did, it was for much more 
than the cash settlement offer and so she sent it to QIC. Because the cash settlement offer 
wouldnt meet the costs if Miss T used the builder who provided the quote, she agreed to 
use QICs contractors- even thought her builder was available to start works sooner. Our Investigator noticed that items originally included in the SOW had been removed, but on 
Miss T raising her concerns, were reinstated. 
QIC says the items were removed as they had originally been included in error and so it was 
correct to remove them. In an effort to settle the claim, QIC agreed to reinstate them. 
However, I think this supports Miss Ts concerns as to the reliability and accuracy of the 
information QIC gave her under its SOW - and so I can understand her worry and distress 
when trying to make a decision as to whether to accept the cash settlement or wait for QICs 
contractors to carry out repairs. 
As at November 2022 Miss T was still in AA. This is over a year after she made her claim. 
Its reasonable to expect some disruption for this type of claim due to the type of damage a 
flood causes. And I can see that QICs policy says it will pay a maximum of 12 months AA. 
But in this case I dont think it is reasonable for QIC to apply this term as I think its handling 
of the claim has been poor. At the outset of the claim, QIC estimated the works would take 
between 4-6 months to complete. 
In response to the Investigators view, QIC said a SOW will require amendment during the 
life of a claim. But even taking into account supply issues and the impact of Covid 19 and 
Brexit - as QIC explain - I dont think it reasonable for QIC to have not finalised a SOW over 
a year after the damage occurred and to include all relevant items. I understand the drying 
works were completed, so I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for QIC to extend the AA 
by four months if necessary from the date of my decision. I dont think it reasonable for Miss 
T to pay for AA after 12 months as I think she has tried to mitigate her circumstances. 
As Ive said, dealing with any claim, particularly a flood or fire claim, will inevitably cause 
considerable disruption and upheaval. But I think QICs handling of the claim and its delays 
have caused Miss T distress and inconvenience over and above what would be considered 
reasonable and over a prolonged period of time. 
So I think a fair compensation award to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Miss T is £900. Im therefore upholding Miss Ts complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:
- Extend Alternative Accommodation cover for a further four months if required 
from the date of my decision. 
- Pay Miss T £900 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Miss T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give Miss T 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman