DRN-3059920
complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a mortgage in 2005. Mr R says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Santander made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. Santander has been able to give me a number of documents from the sale. 
These indicate that Mr R took out his mortgage during a meeting in branch. During this 
time, he had a conversation with a Santander representative about his demands and 
needs in relation to the mortgage. Looking at the demands and needs form that was 
completed at the time, Mr R indicated that if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness, that he would be unable to pay his mortgage and related bills. As a result of 
this, Santander recommended that he take the disability PPI. This means that Mr R 
chose not to also take the unemployment cover. So I think he was aware that he could 
decline anything he didnt want. Looking at the mortgage offer, it clearly stated that Mr R 
wasnt required to take any insurance out with Santander. So I think he was aware he 
could have declined the PPI as a whole if he didnt want it.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the policy was right for 
him. And the evidence about Mr Rs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr R was eligible for the 
cover and he didnt have any means to fall back on if he was unable to work due to an 
accident or sickness. And considering the serious financial burden he was taking on with 
the mortgage, and the repercussions of not being able to make the monthly payments, I 
think he could have found the policy useful. 
There was nothing about Mr Rs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health and back problems. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr R would have declined the 
cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr R would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman