DRN-3210126
The complaint
This complaint is about the compensation Mr W was offered after payment protection 
insurance (PPI) was mis-sold to him alongside a store card in 1986. 
PPI was sold to Mr W to run alongside a store card for a clothing store. The business 
ultimately responsible for answering Mr Ws complaint is the insurer, AXA France IARD 
(AXA).  
What happened
As Ive said above, Mr W took the store card out in 1986 and the parties agree that PPI was 
sold at the same time. 
Sometime later, Mr W complained about the sale of his PPI policy and AXA asked a third 
party to assess the complaint on its behalf. On 22 August 2020, the third party sent Mr W a 
letter on behalf of AXA to say it agreed PPI had been mis-sold.  Mr W was offered £600 in 
full and final settlement of the complaint. AXA said that when making an offer, it would 
usually pay compensation by reconstructing Mr Ws store card account records. But as it 
only had very limited data about his account, the sum it offered him was an average amount 
for accounts that were like his. 
A second letter was also sent from the third party on 22 August 2020. In this second letter, 
the third party said it was responding on behalf of the lender. This letter said that the 
complaint about the lender had been brought too late, and that Mr W should have 
complained by 1 January 2015. 
Mr W did not agree with the proposed outcome, and so he brought the complaint to this 
service. He said his complaint was not time-barred and he had complained to the lender in 
2014. He also said he had undertaken a calculation using a compound interest calculator 
and estimated that the £600 offer meant that the value of his PPI premiums was less than 
£40. He did not accept that amount, and so he complained to this service.
 
Our adjudicator looked at everything and thought the offer made to Mr W was fair. Mr W 
didnt agree with what our adjudicator said. He didnt think all his complaint points had been 
considered. He also provided copies of some correspondence the third party sent to him in 
2014 in which further information had been requested of him to trace a PPI policy. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, so I am not considering how PPI came to be sold 
to Mr W. Instead, I must look at whether Mr W has been fairly compensated for that mis-
sale. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I agree with our adjudicator that AXAs offer was fair. Ill 
explain why below. 
Did AXA fairly compensate Mr W for mis-selling PPI? 
AXA mis-sold PPI to Mr W, so as far as it is possible to do so, I would expect it to return him 
to the position hed be in now if PPI had never been sold in the first place. Usually, Id expect 
AXA to reconstruct Mr Ws account as though he hadnt taken PPI out. And then Id expect it 
to compensate him for the extra he paid because of the PPI. 
But AXA hasnt been able to follow this approach because it hasnt got many records of     
Mr Ws account or the premiums he paid. Thats not surprising given the account was 
opened in 1986 and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. I wouldnt expect 
either party to keep such information for that long. 
All that we know about the cover is that Mr W took PPI out in 1986 and he paid a final annual 
premium of £22.95 in February 1990. 
Where there is limited information about an account, including the premiums a consumer 
was charged, wed expect a business to make reasonable assumptions about a consumers 
account based on the little information it does have. 
So, in deciding how much to compensate Mr W, AXA has looked at other accounts similar to 
his where it does have full information. And it has looked at the levels of compensation it has 
paid to other consumers where it can say accurately what their compensation should be. 
Using this information, AXA looked at the premium it knew Mr W paid, and how long he had 
his PPI policy and it offered to pay him £600. Looking at how long Mr W had his PPI policy, 
and as we dont have any further information about his premiums, Im satisfied this is a fair 
way to compensate him. 
I know that Mr W didnt agree with AXAs offer because it was at odds with a compound 
interest calculator he had used. But even if AXA had full information about his account, I 
wouldnt have expected it to calculate compensation using compound interest. I would have 
expected it to calculate simple interest from the date Mr W was out of pocket because of the 
PPI. As AXA offered Mr W an amount similar to other accounts where it had full information, 
Im satisfied it took account of that simple interest. 
The complaint allegedly time-barred
I want to try and clear up the issue about whether Mr Ws complaint was time-barred as I 
can see it has caused him quite a bit of upset. As I said above, the complaint that was said 
to be time-barred was about the lender, and not AXA (the insurer). 
I cant consider the complaint about the lender in this decision. But I would draw to Mr Ws 
attention that I wouldnt usually expect any further compensation for mis-sold PPI to be paid 
by the lender, if the same mis-sale complaint has already been fully upheld by the insurer. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr W because I can see he feels very strongly about this matter. But 
for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
My final decision
For the reason set out above, I havent upheld the complaint and I dont require AXA France 
IARD to take any further action.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Nicola BowesOmbudsman