DRN-2835275
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) 
unfairly recalled a Bounce Back Loan. T is also unhappy with how the Co-op closed its 
account and terminated an overdraft facility.
Ts director, Mr S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
T held a business current account with the Co-op. 
The Co-op wrote to Mr S on 30 April 2020, explaining that it had decided to close Ts 
account as it no longer fitted the banks risk appetite. The account was to be closed on 
6 July 2020. Mr S says he didnt receive this letter.
On 16 May, Mr S applied to the Co-op on Ts behalf for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000. 
The Co-op approved the application and the funds were drawn down into Ts account on 
20 May. But the funds were reversed on 22 May. 
When Mr S queried this with the Co-op, he learned of the banks decision to close Ts 
account. The bank went on to explain that the loan had been given in error  as it was only 
providing loans to customers who held accounts with the bank, and Ts account was 
scheduled for closure. 
Mr S complained. He said the Co-op had made an error in offering the loan only to retract it 
without his permission  and said it should just have declined the application at the outset if 
it wasnt willing to lend to T. This had left T in a vulnerable position  as it was only possible 
to have one Bounce Back Loan, it couldnt now apply for another one elsewhere. While not 
disputing the banks right to close Ts account, he thought it should give him more time to 
find alternative arrangements in light of the exceptional circumstances of the time. He was 
also unhappy that funds paid into Ts account had been used to settle the overdraft balance, 
which he said had been removed prematurely. 
The Co-op said it hadnt done anything wrong in how it had closed Ts account, but accepted 
that it should not have approved the Bounce Back Loan application given its decision. It 
didnt think this would affect Ts chances of applying for a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere, and 
said that T could use the banks letter to confirm it hadnt actually received a loan. It paid 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by paying out the funds. 
Mr S referred the complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. She didnt 
think the Co-op needed to do anything more, saying in summary that:
The Co-op had been entitled to close Ts account and had done so in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. And while it was unfortunate that Mr S hadnt 
received notice of this, she didnt think this was down to anything that the Co-op had 
done wrong.
As the Co-op was closing Ts account, T was no longer eligible to obtain a Bounce 
Back Loan from it. So it had been fair for the bank to recover the loan after it had 
been paid out in error, and the steps taken were allowed for under the terms and 
conditions. 
She couldnt see that the Co-ops actions had prevented T from getting a Bounce 
Back Loan elsewhere. And the £100 already paid by the Co-op was fair 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by its error.
The terms and conditions of Ts account allowed the Co-op to use funds held in the 
account to repay any amounts it was owed. So the funds held in Ts account had 
been legitimately applied to reduce the outstanding overdraft balance after the Co-op 
decided to withdraw its services.
As Mr S didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the terms and conditions of Ts account, the Co-op was entitled to close the account 
at any time by giving two months notice. Generally speaking, such decisions are a matter of 
the banks commercial discretion. And Ive not seen anything that leads me to think the Co-
ops decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances here. 
The Co-op wrote to Mr S on 30 April 2020 with notice that it would close Ts account on 
6 July 2020  so it provided sufficient notice as required under the terms and conditions. 
Mr S says he didnt receive this letter. But it was correctly addressed and the banks internal 
records evidence that it was sent. So while its regrettable that Mr S didnt receive the letter, I 
dont think this was due to an error on the Co-ops part.
Mr S wanted the Co-op to extend the notice period, giving him longer to open a new 
account. And I recognise that the circumstances of the time meant that there were fewer 
options when it came to arranging alternative banking facilities  as some providers werent 
accepting applications from new customers. But I dont think that warranted an extension. I 
still think that the two months provided, in line with the terms and conditions, was 
reasonable. And even accepting that Mr S didnt receive the notice, he was aware on or 
around 22 May that Ts account would be closed  giving him six weeks to open a new one, 
which I think was sufficient. 
The Co-op has already accepted that after making the decision to close Ts account, it 
shouldnt have allowed the application for the Bounce Back Loan to proceed. So it was an 
error that the application went as far as it did, with funds being drawn down and made 
available for 48 hours. As Mr S says, the bank should simply have declined the application in 
the first place. 
Once the loan was paid out in error, the Co-op had to take steps to recover it. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed for its termination in certain circumstances. As T should not 
have received it in the first place, I think it was reasonable for the Co-op to recall it. Clearly 
this put T to some inconvenience  the Co-op had provided the loan so Mr S was 
understandably confused and concerned to see it removed and had to follow up with the bank about the matter. And the application itself had been a waste of time and effort. Things 
were put right fairly swiftly though  the loan was paid out on 20 May but recalled on 22 May, 
and Mr S spoke to the bank that day and it explained what had happened. So I think the 
£100 that the Co-op has already paid T is fair compensation for the trouble it was caused.
Mr S was initially concerned that the Co-ops actions would prevent T from getting a Bounce 
Back Loan elsewhere. I can understand why, as it was only possible for a business to have 
one Bounce back Loan. So if the abortive Co-op loan was recorded on the relevant 
database, T wouldnt be able to get another one. Its not clear to me whether the Co-op 
subsequently removed any record of the loan from the database, as Id expect. But T had 
written confirmation from the Co-op that its Bounce Back Loan had been withdrawn and  as 
the bank advised Mr S  this could be provided to any prospective lender if necessary. In 
any event, Mr S hasnt provided anything to show that T was subsequently turned down for a 
Bounce Back Loan elsewhere as a result of these issues. 
Lastly, Ive considered what Mr S has said about Ts overdraft facility. The overdraft was 
repayable on demand  in other words, the two months notice didnt apply (this only applied 
to the account itself). And under the terms and conditions, the Co-op was entitled to use any 
funds held within Ts accounts to repay any amounts it was owed. So I dont think the bank 
did anything wrong in applying some of Ts funds to repay the overdraft prior to the 
scheduled account closure date.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman