DRN-4222420
Complaint
Mrs W complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional 
sale agreement with her. 
Shes said the monthly payments were unaffordable and she struggled to meet the 
repayments, having to borrow from friends and family and taking out payday loans in order 
to do so. 
Background
In November 2017, Moneybarn provided Mrs W with finance for a used car. The cash price 
of the vehicle was £8,978.00 and Mrs W applied for finance to cover the entire purchase 
price. The conditional sale agreement had interest, fees and total charges of £8,789.85 and 
the total amount to be repaid of £17,767.85 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments 
of £301.15. 
In August 2022, Mrs W complained that the payments to this hire purchase agreement were 
unaffordable and so the finance should never have been provided to her. Moneybarn looked 
at the complaint and didnt uphold it. Moneybarn said that the checks completed before the 
agreement was entered into confirmed that the finance was affordable and so it was 
reasonable to lend. 
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Mrs W unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with our adjudicator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.  
My provisional decision of 16 June 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 16 June 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Mrs Ws complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible 
and unaffordable lending on our website. And that Id used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mrs Ws complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs W could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to 
her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then needed to consider 
what reasonable and proportionate checks were likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn said that it agreed to Mrs Ws application after it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment on her. During this assessment, Mrs W provided details of her 
monthly income and payslips to verify what shed declared. 
Moneybarn said it also carried out credit searches on Mrs W which showed some 
outstanding balances. But when the amount Mrs W already owed plus a reasonable amount 
for living expenses, based on statistical data, were deducted from her monthly income the 
monthly payments were still affordable. It was also satisfied that the monthly payments were 
less than the maximum amount it had determined to be affordable for her based on her 
income. 
On the other hand, Mrs W said she was already struggling at the time and that these 
payments were unaffordable.
I carefully thought about what Moneybarn had said. But I pointed out that simply obtaining 
information about a borrower didnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a 
borrower focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan.
 
I was concerned that Moneybarn appeared to have assumed an affordable monthly payment 
amount based on Mrs Ws monthly income. And even then the payments to this agreement 
were close to the maximum it had assumed Mrs W could pay each month. 
Given the proportion of Mrs Ws income being taken up by these payments, and Mrs W was 
being expected to pay over £300 a month for five years, I thought that Moneybarn needed to 
do more to verify Mrs Ws expenditure before lending. I didnt think that relying on statistical 
data in these circumstances was fair and reasonable. 
I thought that what Moneybarn did obtain about Mrs Ws circumstances meant that it wasnt 
reasonable to proceed with the payments being affordable simply on the basis that they took 
up less than 25% of her income. So as well as asking Mrs W about the details of her income 
and carrying out credit checks, I thought that Moneybarn needed to do more to verify              
Mrs Ws expenditure. 
It could have done this by asking for information such as bank statements or copies of bills. 
And when it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mrs 
W did have enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 
As I couldnt see that Moneybarn did do anything further to verify Mrs Ws expenditure, I 
found that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
entering into this conditional sale agreement with her.
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this agreement was provided, I couldnt 
say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I needed to decide whether it was more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Moneybarn that it was unfair to enter 
into this agreement with Mrs W. 
Mrs W had provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for the finance. I accepted that different checks might show different things. And just because something showed up in the information Mrs W had provided, it didnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Moneybarn mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Moneybarn showing what this information would 
have shown, I thought that it was perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Mrs Ws financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time. 
I made it clear that I didnt look at Mrs Ws bank statements and the other information she 
had provided because I thought that Moneybarn ought to have obtained this before lending 
to her. I consulted this information because it was readily available at this stage and it 
contained the information I now needed to reconstruct the proportionate check Moneybarn 
should have but failed to carry out. 
Mrs Ws bank statements showed that she was receiving the salary set out on the requested 
payslip. However, she also provided other information showing that she was in rent arrears, 
had council tax arrears and also had other credit accounts that were in arrears and with debt 
collection agencies. So having considered the information provided it was clear to me that 
Mrs W was already struggling.
I acknowledged that Moneybarn may have questioned why Mrs W sought to the purchase 
the vehicle she did at the time she did given what she said about her circumstances and 
what the information she had provided to support this shows. I  wasnt wholly unsympathetic 
to this argument. However, the fact remained that irrespective of the wisdom of Mrs Ws 
decision to enter the conditional sale agreement she entered into on the terms that she did 
and at the time that she did, Moneybarn nonetheless needed to take reasonable steps to 
ascertain her ability to make the monthly payments of £301.15 over five years.
Given that what I had been provided with indicated Mrs W was already struggling to meet 
her existing commitments, I was satisfied that Mrs W simply wasnt in a position to make the 
monthly payments to this agreement, let alone other reasonable associated running costs for 
the vehicle such as petrol, tax and insurance. In these circumstances, I was satisfied that        
Mrs W simply didnt have the funds necessary to make the monthly payments to her 
agreement, without her borrowing further or it having a significant adverse impact on her 
financial position. 
So having carefully considered everything, I was minded to conclude that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have alerted Moneybarn to the fact that Mrs W wasnt in a 
position to sustainably make the payments to this agreement. 
And I therefore intended to issue a final decision which concluded that Mrs W wasnt in a 
position to take on this commitment and Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to her.  I then set out 
a method of compensation which I thought addressed Moneybarns shortcomings and            
Mrs Ws resulting loss.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W confirmed that she agreed with my provisional decision and that she had nothing 
further to add.
Moneybarn didnt provide anything further for me to consider or ask for any additional time to 
do so. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mrs Ws complaint in my provisional 
decision of 16 June 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further to consider by the 
parties, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mrs Ws 
complaint. And I remain satisfied that Moneybarn needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what Moneybarn needs to do to put things right for Mrs W
Ive carefully thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. In broad terms, 
where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Moneybarn 
putting    Mrs W in the position shed now be in if the agreement hadnt been entered into in 
the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mrs W 
did enter into the agreement and was, at least, given the car in question. She also had use 
of the vehicle for four and a half years. So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. And its simply not possible to put Mrs W back in the position she would 
be in if she hadnt been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, Ive had to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. Our website sets out the 
main things we consider when looking at putting things right in cases where we conclude 
that a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable lending complaints. 
We typically say the borrower should repay the amount lent and the lender refunds any 
interest, fees and charges the borrower paid. This is because the borrower will have had the 
benefit of the credit they were provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above 
this  any interest fees and charges  that will have caused the consumer to lose out. 
So, in this case, this would mean Mrs W paying back the £8,978.00 originally lent and any 
interest, fees and charges she paid being refunded (along with interest at 8% simple a year). 
I do think that a refund of the interest, fees and charges Mrs W paid (plus interest) is useful 
starting point. However, I dont think that a such refund alone goes far enough here given the 
particular circumstances of this case. 
In this case, Moneybarn took possession of the vehicle in May 2022. And a refund of the 
interest, fees and charges alone, would effectively place Mrs W in the position she would be 
in having paid the full amount lent for a car in circumstances where she doesnt have 
ownership of the vehicle and therefore hasnt really had the benefit of £8,978.00. Ive therefore given careful thought to how else it might be fair and reasonable to put things 
right for Mrs W bearing in mind she has paid significantly more than the amount she was lent 
and doesnt have ownership of the vehicle. There is no exact science to doing this and I 
have therefore taken a broad-brush approach to doing so weighing up all the factors at play 
here. 
Having considered at the statement of account it looks to me that Moneybarn sold the 
vehicle for £3,300.00 in June 2022. This was around five months before ownership would 
have transferred to Mrs W had she made all the payments on her agreement. 
I appreciate that the vehicle was sold at auction and its possible Mrs W might have been 
able to obtain a higher price selling the vehicle privately had ownership been transferred to 
her in November 2022. But Im also mindful that the vehicle would have had a further five 
months use had it not been sold in June 2022. And as this is the case, I think that the 
amount that the vehicle was sold for, is a reasonable proxy for the value of the asset Mrs W 
would have had, had Moneybarn not taken possession of the vehicle in May 2022.
Therefore, given all the circumstances and having weighed up everything, Im intending to 
tell Moneybarn that it should not only refund all the interest fees and charges Mrs W paid, 
plus interest at 8% simple per year, as a result of this conditional sale agreement, it should 
also pay Mrs W a further £3,300.00 to compensate her for not having ownership of the 
vehicle. Im satisfied that a further payment of this amount adequately reflects Mrs W not 
having had the full benefit of the £8,978.00 she was lent. 
The statement of account makes reference to a credit note of £732.75 being issued. It is 
unclear whether this was an amount paid to Mrs W or an amount credited to any outstanding 
balance on the account. But if Moneybarn is able to evidence having already paid Mrs W 
£732.75, it can deduct this from the additional £3,300.00 Im directing it to pay her.
     
I now turn to Mrs Ws credit file. Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any 
adverse information recorded on a consumers credit file as a result of any credit they 
shouldnt have been given. Ive not seen anything in this case which leads me to think such 
a direction would be unfair here.
As this is the case, Im directing Moneybarn to put things right for Mrs W by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs W paid as a result of her conditional sale 
agreement;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs M to the date of settlement;
paying Mrs W a further £3,300.00 (minus £732.75 if it can be evidenced Mrs W has 
already been paid this) to reflect the fact that she doesnt have ownership of the 
vehicle;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file as a result of this 
agreement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision of 16 June 2023, Im upholding 
Mrs Ws complaint. Moneybarn No.1 Limited should put things right for Mrs W in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman