DRN-3300137
The complaint
Mr J complains that Everyday Loans Limited (Trusttwo) lent him a loan he couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Trusttwo lent Mr J £8000 in February 2018, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded Trusttwo did not make a fair lending decision. I agree with the 
investigators findings for these reasons:
oTrusttwo says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mr J. It 
says it asked him about his income and accommodation costs as well as go through 
a credit search. It says it also added £1000 for Mr Js living expenses. It used the 
information it gathered to assess the affordability of the loan for Mr J.
oThe loan was due to be repaid over 60 monthly instalments of around £313 and 
Trusttwo says Mr J asked for the loan for debt consolidation. When I look at Trusttwo 
calculations, I can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out that Mr J would 
have enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. But like the 
investigator, on balance I dont think Trusttwo made a fair lending decision with what 
it had in front of it.
oI say this because when I look through the credit search results, I can see that Mr J 
had taken out a relatively large loan not that long before asking for this one. The 
repayment for this when added to the Trusttwo loan repayment and other credit 
commitments not covered by the proposed consolidation would be a significant 
monthly commitment for Mr J. In addition, I can see that Mr J had a default recorded 
against his name. This account had been defaulted within only a few weeks of Mr J 
asking for this loan and it had an outstanding balance to repay. Mr J also had a 
County Court Judgement (CCJ) with a significant outstanding balance too. I think all 
of this ought to have raised concerns with Trusttwo about Mr Js ability to be able to 
repay any additional credit. 
oTrusttwo say it asked Mr J about the default and the CCJ and recorded down what 
he said. It says Mr J told it the CCJ was in relation to a failed business and the 
default was due to be repaid with the proceeds of this loan. But I dont think Trusttwo 
acted on the information that it had in front of it. Instead it assessed what Mr J was 
telling it and whether he could afford the loan strictly on a pounds and pence basis. 
oI can see from the information Trusttwo gathered, that Mr J was having problems 
managing his finances. I cant see how Trusttwo would have taken any assurance 
from the credit search it carried out or what Mr J had told it when it was assessing 
whether he would be able to repay the monthly instalments on this loan, over the 5 
year term, in a sustainable way. And, in these circumstances, Trusttwo should 
reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Mr J.
oSo, it follows that I uphold Mr Js complaint. Trusttwo now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
While I think Trusttwo shouldnt have lent to Mr J, I think it will be fair for him to repay the 
capital of £8000 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, Trusttwo should:
add up all the payments made by Mr J, if it exceeds the capital amount of £8000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr J, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file as a result of this loan.
If there is a balance outstanding, Trusttwo should treat Mr J fairly and look to arrange 
a payment plan that is affordable for him. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Trusttwo to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. Trusttwo must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Everyday Loans Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman