DRN-2913121
The complaint
Mr S complained about the interest which Sainsburys Bank plc charged him after the expiry 
of his interest-free promotional rate. He said that Sainsburys:
- shouldnt have charged him interest between 4th of the month when the promotional 
rate expired, and the end of the month, because the statement information was 
misleading; and 
- failed to remind him three weeks in advance that the promotional rate was about to 
end.
Mr S wants a refund of the £95.37 interest charged.
What happened
Mr S had a 28 month 0% promotional rate on his Sainsburys credit card. His statements 
dated 5 November and 5 December 2020 record two dates for the expiry of the  promotional 
offer, with the majority of the balance having an expiry date of 4 December and a small 
balance with an expiry date of 1 December.  
A Summary Box on page 2 of the statements, which said it summarised the key product 
features and wasnt intended to replace the terms and conditions, had a section about 
Interest charging information which said:
We charge interest:
 On a daily basis on transactions from the date the item is debited to your account 
until the balance is paid in full.
 On the whole balance shown on your statement until you make a payment. After that 
payment registers in your account, you will be charged interest on any balance that 
remains.
We don't charge interest on purchases made during your latest statement period if you pay 
off your full balance (including any balance transfers and money transfers) by the payment 
due date and if you also paid your previous month's balance in full by the due date.
The Payment Due  date on the December payment was 30 December. Mr S believed he 
had until the end of December to pay the outstanding balance without incurring interest. He 
paid off the full balance by the end of December.
Mr Ss 5 January 2021 statement, however, showed that Sainsburys had charged him 
£95.37. This was interest on the promotional rate balances from their expiry dates. Mr S 
rang to complain. He said he didnt understand why interest had been charged, and pointed 
out that if it had been a new balance and hed paid it off in full  by the Payment Due date, he 
wouldnt have been charged anything. 
Sainsburys didnt agree. Its adviser told Mr S that the information about paying by the 
Payment Due date to avoid late charges related to new spend  not to the promotional rate 
balance which was existing spend. The adviser told him that Sainsburys had given him the 
date of 4 December by which the existing spend needed to be paid. It was this date by which 
Mr S would have had to pay off the balance, if he wasnt to have been charged interest the 
next month. So Sainsburys refused to refund Mr S with the £95.37 charged. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained. In discussions, Sainsburys said that its notes 
recorded that it had emailed Mr S on 14 November with a reminder about the forthcoming 
expiry of the promotional rates. Mr S said he hadnt received this. Sainsburys said that the 
email was sent as a courtesy, and it wouldnt change the situation about the interest. 
In its final response letter, Sainsburys said that:
- the promotional rate had expired on 4 December, and the full balance needed to 
have been paid before the end date of that rate, or interest would accrue. It pointed 
out that before the end of the promotional rate, it had advised Mr S on every 
statement when the end date would be. So it refused to refund the interest, saying it 
had been correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account;
- as Mr S had said he hadnt received an email advising him that the promotional rate 
was coming to an end, Sainsburys offered him £25 as the service hed received was 
below what he should expect.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She thought Sainsburys had provided 
enough information to confirm the expiry date of the promotional offer. Although Mr S felt he 
had until the end of December 2020 to pay, that would have been to prevent any late 
charges. Sainsburys records showed that it had in fact sent a reminder in November, but it 
had offered £25 for the service issue.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that the clarity of the expiry date was subjective, but Sainsburys 
terms and conditions obliged it to notify him three weeks before the promotional rate ended. 
He sent a link to Sainsburys website, which, under the heading Promotional interest rates, 
said:
Well tell you on your monthly statement if you have any balances on an introductory 
promotional rate and it you do, when they expire. Well also email you a reminder three 
weeks before your promotional rates expire. 
Mr S said that Sainsburys final response letter had admitted it had failed to do that, so £25 
compensation wasnt satisfactory as the interest charged had been £95.37. He said he 
believed Sainsburys was routinely failing to notify their customers of expiring promotional 
offers. He didnt believe that Sainsburys had sent a reminder letter, as the investigator had 
said Sainsburys records showed. Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it would have been frustrating to be charged interest, because Mr S intended 
and did pay off the whole balance within December. But my job is to consider whether 
Sainsburys acted fairly.
Charging interest between 4 December and the end of the month
As Ive set out above, on the second page of the statement, the Summary Box says:We don't charge interest on purchases made during your latest statement period if you pay 
off your full balance (including any balance transfers and money transfers) by the payment 
due date and if you also paid your previous month's balance in full by the due date.
The problem with Mr Ss interpretation of this is that the balances werent new purchases 
during the latest statement period. They had been on the account, with some minor 
differences to the amounts, for many months, and they hadnt been paid off in the previous 
month in full. So, although I recognise that this is perhaps not as straightforward as Mr S 
expects it to be, technically the balances on the promotional rate didnt fall into this wording 
because they werent purchases during the latest statement period.
And Ive looked at previous statements, and all of these clearly state that the promotional 
rates would expire on 1 December and 4 December 2020. This includes the statement dated 
5 November, which is the one which Mr S would have need to have actioned, by paying off 
the balances before 4 December. So I consider the information provided to Mr S on the 
statements was sufficient for him reasonably to have realised that interest would be charged 
after 4 December. It was also always open to him to have contacted Sainsburys before 4 
December to ask, if he considered the wording was ambiguous. So I dont find that 
Sainsburys was wrong to charge Mr S interest from 4 December.
Notification of promotional rate expiry three weeks before expiry
The evidence about whether or not notification was sent is confused. At various points there 
has been discussion of a letter  for example Mr S has said throughout that he didnt receive 
a letter - but the disputed correspondence was in fact an email.  
In Sainsburys final response letter, it said We should have sent an email to advise your 
promotional rate was coming to an end. You havent received this and I agree the level of 
service youve received is below what you should expect from us.  This implies  though 
doesnt precisely say  that Sainsburys didnt send an email when it should have done.
But in Sainsburys system notes for Mr Ss account, which it sent to this service, there is a 
record on 14 November, timed at 01.37 am, which records the sending of a Customer 
Service Memo. This record says Alert type: Promo expiration. The account email is the 
one which weve been given for Mr S. So I consider its more likely than not that an 
automated system email was sent to the email address which Sainsburys had on file for Mr 
S.  If Mr S didnt receive it, I think this is more likely because of an issue with his emails 
rather than something I can see would have been Sainsburys fault.
However, a wider issue is whether or not Sainsburys was contractually obliged to notify Mr 
S of the ending of the promotional rate three weeks before expiry. The section on the 
website to which Mr S has referred us doesnt form part of the terms and conditions of the 
account. Ive looked at the terms and conditions carefully, and these make no mention of 
notification. The website section which Mr S quoted is under the heading Credit card 
customer support  in other words, the support Sainsburys says it provides. I consider it 
likely that Sainsburys did send an automated email, but even if it didnt, there was no legal 
obligation for it to do so. 
Having carefully considered both of these points, in the circumstances of this case I dont 
consider that Sainsburys did anything wrong, and I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for a refund of the interest charged on 
the former promotional balances from 4 December 2020.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman