DRN-2098473
The complaint
Miss E complains that Landmark Mortgages Limited allowed her former partner to 
fraudulently take out a further advance on their joint mortgage without her knowledge and 
agreement. And she also complains that Landmark wouldnt agree to remove his name from 
the mortgage now theyve separated and he has agreed to sign the property over to her.
What happened
Miss E and her former partner had a mortgage which, at the time, was with Northern Rock. 
Its since moved to Landmark, which has taken over responsibility for what happened while 
the loan was with Northern Rock and its successor.
In 2007, an application for £20,000 further borrowing was agreed. The loan continued to be 
paid for the next ten years or so.
Miss E and her former partner have now separated. She says that she has recently 
discovered the existence of the further borrowing. Miss E says her former partner was 
abusive and controlling. He forged her signature on the loan application and hid its existence 
from her. Miss E says shes discovered various other forms of credit he also took out without 
her knowledge. She has reported him to the police.
Miss E complained to Landmark. She said the signatures on the loan paperwork were forged 
and obviously didnt match her signature. Miss E said it should have been clear to Landmark 
that she wasnt involved in the loan application and it should have been refused.
Miss E also applied to remove her former partner from the mortgage account and the 
property title deeds. Landmark refused because the mortgage was in arrears. Miss E said it 
was only in arrears because she didnt think she ought to pay for the borrowing she hadnt 
taken out.
Miss E also complains about the refusal to remove her former partner. A few weeks after the 
application she paid off the loan with the help of her family. She says it would have been 
more straightforward to resolve the situation with her former partner no longer on the loan.
Our investigator said we shouldnt consider the complaint about whether the loan was taken 
out fraudulently. And she didnt think the complaint about removing Miss Es former partner 
from the mortgage should be upheld. So Miss E asked for an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear what Miss E has said about the relationship and the difficult time shes had.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider complaints about the actions of financial 
services businesses  but we cant consider complaints about the actions of third parties.
Miss Es former partner isnt party to this complaint. Miss Es complaint is that he forged her 
signature to take out the loan without her consent  and that Landmark should have realised 
this and refused the application. We havent heard his side of the story, and cant require him 
to give it. But the allegation that he committed fraud is an integral part of the complaint. I 
cant make a finding that Landmark should have realised this was a fraudulent application 
without first making a finding that it was a fraudulent application. I understand Miss E has 
reported this to the police, and I consider the police and courts are better placed to resolve 
this part of her complaint than we are.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Landmark to refuse to remove Miss Es former partner 
from the mortgage. Its policy is that it wont do so when a mortgage is in arrears. Thats 
because arrears suggest that the borrowers are struggling to pay the mortgage. If one 
borrower is removed, their resources are no longer available to pay the mortgage  and its 
more likely the remaining borrower will continue to struggle, so it wouldnt be in their best 
interests to make the change.
As I say, thats the general policy. I appreciate Miss E considers her position to be different, 
and she was withholding money she didnt think she was liable to pay. But the fact is the 
mortgage was in arrears, and therefore fell outside Landmarks policy. In any case, as 
Miss E was planning to redeem the mortgage very shortly, Im not persuaded the refusal to 
remove her former partner first made much practical difference. She paid off the loan just a 
couple of weeks after the application was refused, and the mortgage no longer exists.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman