DRN-2845348
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly declined to
pay out on his motor insurance policy following an incident.
What happened
Mr E took out a car insurance policy in July 2019 which was underwritten by Calpe but
branded as XS Direct. For ease of reference, I will refer to Calpe throughout this
decision.
Mr E was involved in a police incident, his car having crashed into bollards in September
2019 following a police chase. He was accompanied by a friend and another passenger in
the rear seat. He then claimed on his motor insurance policy. In January 2020, Calpe said
that it would be declining Mr Es claim and cancelling his insurance as; During the course of
our investigations it has become apparent that have [sic] given false or misleading
information.
Mr E complained to Calpe as he said that he had not given false or misleading information
and did not consider that it was fair for his claim to have been declined by Calpe.
Calpe subsequently sent its final response letter to Mr E following his complaint stating; The
police notified us that you were involved in a police chase and the car subsequently crashed.
The police advised us that you were the driver of the vehicle. We are unable to offer you
motor insurance cover in this instance.
Mr E wasnt happy that Calpe had declined his claim on these grounds either, as he said that
he had been forced to drive by one of the passengers and did not consider that he had been
treated fairly by Calpe. He therefore made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The services investigator looked into the matter and considered whether being forced into a
police chase could lead to grounds for cancelling Mr Es policy. He said that as Calpe had
not provided a copy of Mr Es policy terms and conditions; or shown me under what term
you felt the cancellation was justified, I cannot say that it was reasonable to cancel the
policy.
In summary, he said that he hadnt been able to say that it was fair to cancel Mr Es policy or
decline his claim, so he asked Calpe to; put the policy-holder back into the position he
would have been in had the policy not been cancelled. He therefore expected Calpe to
reassess Mr Es claim in line with its normal criteria and remove any notification on the motor
insurance database that his policy was cancelled.
Calpe then informed the investigator that it had sent policy terms and conditions and
background information to the service in November 2020. Calpe re-sent the information in
January 2021 and said that it wished to make further submissions in response to the
investigators view, but it hasnt provided any further response. The investigator did not
change his view following sight of this information and Calpe requested that the
matter be reviewed. The matter was therefore referred to me to make a decision in my role 
as Ombudsman.
In April 2021, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr Es complaint as follows;-
Its most unfortunate that Calpe has not taken the opportunity to respond to this Service
despite being provided with several opportunities to do so. It is nevertheless my role to
decide, on the evidence which is now available to me, as to whether I think Calpe acted fairly
and reasonably at the relevant time, in declining Mr Es claim and in asking him to pay third
party damages.
Calpes reasons for declining cover are two-fold; firstly, because it says Mr E gave false or
misleading information and secondly, because Mr E was involved in a police chase and
subsequent crash. Calpe hasnt explained its reasoning or the relevant policy terms its
relying upon, beyond stating that it is not covering the claim as Mr E was involved in a police 
chase. I nevertheless need to decide whether Calpes decision to cancel the policy and
refuse the claim was fair and reasonable.
Calpes provided an email from a police force. It says Mr Es vehicle was involved in a
pursuit and went on to crash. It says Mr E was driving and was arrested as a result. Ive also
seen an email from the same police force explaining it had decided not to continue with a
prosecution for the event due to low level of damage and short duration of the incident.
Mr Es stated that he was forced to drive against his will and was therefore under duress
when the car chase occurred. Because of that he feels Calpes decision to cancel his policy
is unfair.
Ive considered everything Mr Es said. This includes his account that he picked up someone
he didnt really know and drove them 100 miles away to meet other unknown people. He
says after this a police car attempted to block his path and, in response, his passenger
forced him at knifepoint to continue driving.
I accept that its possible that Mr E was under duress, however overall, having considered
the sequence of events and Mr Es explanation, I dont think this is the most likely
explanation of what happened. Considering the circumstances therefore, I can understand
why Calpe cancelled Mr Es policy and refused the claim.
In all the circumstances, I cant say that Calpe have acted unfairly or unreasonably, and I
dont intend to interfere with Calpes decision not to pay out on Mr Es claim.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Calpe and Mr E if they had any further comments or 
evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Calpe have not commented on the provisional decision, however Mr E disagrees with it. He 
believes there is information that may not have been taken into consideration in the 
provisional decision and he has provided further submissions as follows.
Mr E states that Calpe's reasons for declining to pay out on his policy were not two-fold but 
instead were a change in reason. He does not consider that either the initial or the 
subsequent reason has been substantiated. Mr E also provides further details of his account 
of the incident which led to the damage to his car. Mr E questions the fact that the police 
came to a conclusion that no further action was required on all charges, whereas Calpe 
declined cover without, having the same amount of information as the police.Mr E also considers that the provisional decision lacks empathy and understanding as to the 
gravity of the incident itself and the financial and other impacts the events have had upon Mr 
E. He says that he has engaged in the process throughout. In comparison he says that 
Calpe repeatedly ignored all attempts to gain additional information and resolve the issue He 
states; Unfortunately, although the incident may come across to others as unlikely or 
improbable, the reality of the situation is that I feel like I am being penalised, punished and 
sanctioned for my actions whilst fearing mine and my friends life.
Ive reviewed my provisional decision in the light of Mr Es further submissions. I havent 
been provided with anything thats made me change my position on this matter however, so 
in all the circumstances, I cant say that Calpe have acted unfairly or unreasonably, and I
dont intend to interfere with Calpes decision not to pay out on Mr Es claim.
I accept Mr Es point that Calpe changed its reasoning for declining cover, however the 
provisional decision was reached on the basis of Calpes second reason, which related to 
the police chase. Mr Es submission on this point doesnt alter the reasoning in the 
provisional decision and I cant conclude that Calpe acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mr E 
acknowledges that his version of events may appear to be unlikely or improbable and he 
hasnt been able to supply anything to support his account to persuade me otherwise.
I also appreciate that the police didnt take further action against Mr E, he says that he co-
operated with the police and that he had no criminal record. The police consider matters in 
the light of the criminal standard of proof, whereas this service is required to make its 
decisions on the balance of probabilities however.
I cant be satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Calpe have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, and I dont intend to interfere with Calpes decision not to pay out on Mr Es 
claim in all the circumstances.
I do appreciate that the incident and its outcome has caused financial hardship to Mr E and I 
have already recorded my view that its most unfortunate that Calpe has not taken the 
opportunity to respond to this service despite being provided with several opportunities to do 
so and I expect Calpe to reflect on this failure to respond.
I must nevertheless repeat that its my role to decide, on the evidence which is available to 
me, whether I think Calpe failed to act fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Es claim. I dont 
consider that it has in this case.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in the provisional decision, I dont intend to uphold Mr Es 
complaint against Calpe Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman