DRN-3127488
The complaint
Mr J, through his representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
  
What happened
Mr J took out a 42-month instalment loan from ELL on 11 April 2018 for £8,200. The
monthly repayments were £346.76 and the total repayable was £14,563.92.
Mr J says ELL didnt complete thorough affordability checks. The loan tipped his finances 
over the edge and he had to enter a debt management plan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Js complaint saying the lenders checks were proportionate
but it didnt make a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. 
ELL disagreed saying, in summary, from its checks and the information Mr J provided it 
found the loan to be sustainably affordable.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr J required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr J. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr J. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Js
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make a fair lending decision?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr J before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and checked this on the bank statements he provided. It estimated
his living costs using national statistics, adding a buffer to cover unexpected costs. It also
checked Mr Js credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit
history. And finally it asked about the purpose of the loan which was for debt consolidation. 
From these checks combined ELL concluded Mr J had monthly disposable income of around 
£180 and so could afford to take on the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think ELL responded appropriately to the 
information it gathered, and I dont think it made a fair lending decision. ELL had Mr Js bank 
statement for March 2018, but I cant see it used this information to verify his living 
expenses, instead relying on national averages from the Office of National Statistics. Given 
Mr J was applying for a loan that he would need to be able to sustainably repay over a 42-
month period I think it ought to have used the information that reflected his actual financial 
circumstances. 
Mr Js living costs were in excess of the assumption ELL used in its affordability checks. 
Taking into account the payments he made to his partner (which as ELL has said are 
assumed to be his contribution to rent and household bills), food shopping, insurances and 
mobile phone and adding in his ongoing credit commitments (so discounting the payments to 
the debts he was settling) would leave Mr J with around £25 of disposable income. This 
would not be sufficient to cover any unplanned or seasonal expenses over a 42-month 
period and so I think ELL ought to have realised there was a risk the loan would not be 
sustainably affordable for Mr J.
I have seen Mr Js statements for the previous two months and have used these to ensure 
March 2018 was a fair reflection of Mr Js typical living costs. They support this finding as in 
both months Mr Js living expenses (across the same categories of essential costs) were 
infact in excess of those seen in March 2018.  
It follows I think ELL was wrong to lend to Mr J. I havent seen any evidence ELL acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr J.Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been provided to him.
ELL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr J
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Js loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Js account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding ELL 
must continue to work with Step Change, as it has been, and accept an affordable 
repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr J a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Js complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman