DRN-3779902
The complaint
Mrs B complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund her £4,400 that 
robbers stole from her whilst she was in one of its branches. 
What happened
Mrs B took £4,600 in cash in an envelope into her usual branch so she could exchange it for 
cash in £50 notes. Shed ordered the £50 notes in advance and had originally planned to 
pick them up the day before. Both parties agree that Mrs B gave the envelope to the cashier 
who had come to a stand-alone counter to serve her, but dont agree what happened next. 
Mrs B says the cashier left the envelope on their side of the counter before the cashier went 
to check if the money Mrs B had ordered was still there and if she could deposit the cash 
shed saved into her account and take it out the next day as she didnt have her card with 
her. Halifax says the cashier gave the envelope back to Mrs B before going to check if she 
could deposit the cash shed saved into her account and take it out the next day as she 
didnt have her card with her. Halifax says Mrs B then put the envelope down on her side of 
the counter. Both parties agree that Mrs B was then distracted by an individual who had 
entered the branch with two other people and that whilst she was distracted another member 
of that group stole the envelope. Mrs B told the branch straightaway what had happened. 
She says that the manager and the cashier then spent half an hour in a meeting room and 
that no-one came to ask her what had happened. She also says that there were no bank 
staff present on the floor when the robbery happened.
Halifax investigated Mrs Bs complaint and said that the cashier had handed the envelope 
back to her before it was stolen meaning it couldnt do more to help. Halifax said that it was 
up to the police to investigate and that it had reported the incident to them that day.
Mrs B was unhappy with Halifaxs response, saying it wasnt true that the cashier had 
handed the envelope back to her. She was also unhappy that no-one from Halifax had 
spoken to her when investigating what had happened and said the police had told her that 
the CCTV from the day had been destroyed. She complained to us saying that she wanted 
the matter to be resolved in an honest and clear way, recognising that the bank had been at 
fault. She also wanted the money placed in her account as soon as possible.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint and said that they thought that it more 
likely than not that the cashier had handed the envelope back to Mrs B. In the 
circumstances, our investigator didnt think that Halifax needed to do more. Mrs B was 
unhappy with our investigators response and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, 
Ive looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B saved up cash over a long period of time with a very important purpose in mind. The 
cash shed saved up was bulky because it was made up of a mixture of denominations, so 
she decided to get it exchanged into £50 notes to reduce the bulk. She ordered cash in £50 
notes from Halifax and took the cash shed saved up into her usual branch to get it 
exchanged. Mrs B had  according to Halifaxs notes  tried to exchange the cash shed 
saved several times and hadnt been able to do so because she hadnt had her passport or 
her card with her. She didnt have her card on the day she was robbed.
Mrs B has told us that she removed £120 from the envelope  she originally planned to 
exchange £4,600 in cash, so was left with £4,480  to pay for shopping. I assume she did 
this because she realised shed left her card at home when she was about to pay for her 
shopping and didnt have another way to pay. There were no members of staff on the branch 
floor when she arrived and only one other customer who was waiting for the bank manager. 
A cashier came out to a stand-alone counter with a screen down the middle to serve Mrs B.
Mrs B called Halifax on the day of the robbery to complain. She wrote to Halifax two months 
later  she had a serious case of Covid  setting out in detail what she says happened that 
day. Ive seen a copy of that letter. Halifax made a note of the complaint it received on the 
day of the robbery and a note of a call it had with the branch four days later as part of its 
investigation into what had happened. Ive seen a copy of Halifaxs notes. Mrs Bs evidence 
of what she says happened that day mostly comes from the letter she wrote two months 
later. Halifaxs evidence of what it says happened that day mostly comes from the note of 
the complaint it received on the day of the robbery and the note of the call it had with the 
branch four days later. Halifaxs notes include details of what it says Mrs B said at the time. 
Both parties versions of events are very similar  with two important exceptions. 
The first important exception is what happened when the cashier started to serve Mrs B. 
Halifax says that the cashier told Mrs B that her cash order was ready when they started 
serving her as the cashiers know her well. Halifax says that the cashier then went to go and 
get the cash Mrs B had ordered. Mrs B, on the other hand, says that she told the cashier 
shed come to collect the cash shed ordered rather than the other way round, that she told 
the cashier that she didnt have her card with her and that she asked the cashier whether 
shed be able to complete the transaction without her card when they started serving her. 
Mrs B says the cashier then went to go and get the cash shed ordered.
I think Halifaxs version of what happened when the cashier started to serve Mrs B is more 
likely because Halifax wouldnt have exchanged the cash Mrs B had ordered for the cash 
shed brought in unless she had her passport or card with her. It wouldnt, therefore, have 
made sense for the cashier to go and get the cash Mrs B had ordered and bring it back if the 
cashier already knew that Mrs B didnt have her card. Thats important because it means the 
cashier came back with the cash Mrs B had ordered and only then found out that Mrs B 
didnt have her card on her. That in turn means that the cashier not only had to take the cash 
Mrs B had ordered back but also had to check if Mrs B could deposit the cash shed saved 
into her account and take it out the next day as she didnt have her card with her. Both 
parties agree that the cashier went away twice. I think that Halifaxs version of what 
happened when the cashier started serving Mrs B is consistent with the cashier going away 
twice  initially to get the money Mrs B had ordered and then (having been found out Mrs B 
didnt have her card on her) to return the cash Mrs B had ordered and to check if Mrs B 
could pay the cash shed brought in into her account even though she didnt have her card 
and come back the next day and withdraw. I dont think the cashier would have made two 
trips if Mrs Bs version of what happened when they started serving her was correct as I 
dont think they would have got the money shed ordered if they knew Mrs B didnt have her 
card. It looks like Mrs B gave a more accurate account of what happened when she 
complained on the day of the robbery  if Halifaxs notes are anything to go by. I dont think 
theres anything unusual about this  the letter Mrs B wrote was approximately two months 
after the event and its not unusual for someones recollection to fade or simplify over time.The second important exception is what the cashier did with the envelope when they went 
away the second time. Mrs B says that the cashier left the envelope on their side of the 
counter rather than handing the envelope back to her. Halifax says that the cashier handed 
the envelope back to Mrs B and that she put the envelope down on her side of the counter. 
Again, I think Halifaxs version of events is more likely. I say this for a number of reasons. 
For a start, Im satisfied that at this point the cashier knew that Mrs B wasnt going to be able 
to exchange the cash shed saved for the £50 notes shed ordered and that she might not be 
able to deposit the cash shed brought into her account and come back the next day and 
withdraw as she didnt have her card with her. I dont see why the cashier would have put 
the envelope down on her side of the counter if there was a good chance that Halifax 
wouldnt be taking it that day. Im satisfied that the cashier was security conscious  they 
were an experienced member of staff  which would be why they took the £50 notes Mrs B 
had ordered back when they knew that the exchange wouldnt be going ahead. So, Im 
satisfied that they handed the envelope to Mrs B. Thats consistent with comments Ive seen 
in Halifaxs notes of what Mrs B said later on that day after complaining shed been robbed.
Mrs B was then distracted by an individual who had entered the bank with two other people 
and that whilst she was distracted another member of that group stole the envelope. This 
must have been a terrible experience for Mrs B  to be robbed in a bank branch  made 
even more painful given the plans she had for the money and the amount of time shed 
taken to save it up. I can also understand why she was upset that there were no bank staff 
present on the floor when her money was stolen. But I agree with our investigator  subject 
to one exception  that I dont think it would be fair to ask Halifax to do more.
Mrs B is unhappy that no-one spoke to her to find out what had happened when she was in 
branch. She says she was left on her own whilst the cashier and the manager spoke in a 
meeting room. Mrs B is also unhappy that Halifax deleted the CCTV that would have shown 
what happened at the counter. I do think in this case Halifax could have done a better job of 
investigating and avoiding the situation Mrs B now finds herself in. I hope that Mrs B is able 
to put this behind her as best she can. Shes been the victim of an unkind robbery.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman