DRN-1593278
The complaint
Miss R complains that in 2018 National Westminster Bank Plc allowed her ex-husband to 
change the interest rate on their joint buy-to-let mortgage without her permission.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand and appreciate what Miss Rs been though, and her frustration at feeling 
like no-one is listening to her, my role is to take a step back from the emotion and look at the 
whole picture. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant to the outcome of this complaint. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, 
consumers and businesses so we dont represent either party.
To start, I should make it clear theres no overarching regulatory requirement for a lender to 
obtain customers signatures for product changes. NatWest had no reason to cross 
reference the 2018 signatures against those already held because, as far as it was 
concerned, this was a normal product transfer that was in both the mortgage holders 
interests (as it was significantly reducing the mortgage payments). It had no reason to 
suspect Miss R was unaware of it or would object to it if she was aware. Consumers can live 
apart and still choose to manage a buy-to-let property together, including agreeing to change 
the mortgage product.
Most product switches are fine, to the extent its simply not time effective to cross reference 
the signatures in every single product switch on the very small chance theres a problem. 
Especially as many of those flagged up will have an innocent explanation, such as a 
persons signature evolving over the years. As product switches are normally in both parties 
interests, the risk of fraud is very low.
Whilst an early repayment charge (ERC) had to be paid when the mortgage was redeemed 
in 2019, the monthly cost savings during the time the rate had been in force meant it was still 
significantly better financially for the rate switch to have taken place, with the total monthly 
cost savings coming to about double the ERC payment. So even if the tool to get the product 
in place had been fraudulent (which Im not saying either way), the actual outcome was one 
that was in Miss Rs interests as shes told us she was making payments to the mortgage.
If we were to order the business to unwind the interest rate change that wouldnt just mean 
the ERC being refunded, it would also mean Miss R having to make up the difference 
between the payments made and those that would have been due if the rate change hadnt 
happened. So Miss R would owe NatWest money. As the parties were jointly and severally 
liable for the mortgage NatWest would be allowed to request the entire amount from Miss R 
alone if it felt her ex-husband was either unable to pay, or didnt have to pay (such as if he 
was bankrupt, for example).
I understand Miss Rs point that its not just about the financial side and that she wants 
answers and for someone to take responsibility. Were not saying that its OK or acceptable 
for fraud to take place but were not the regulator and weve got no power to fine, punish or 
take any other regulatory action even if fraud is proven. We simply look if something has 
gone wrong and, if it has, we try to ensure the consumer isnt left financially worse off 
because of it. Here we dont need to decide what - if anything - went wrong and who - if 
anyone - is responsible, because Miss R hasnt been left financially worse off.
Miss R has told us she was passed between NatWest and the police, with a police officer 
saying to her about NatWest I dont know why they keep sending you to us [] its them 
that need to contact us, theyve been defrauded. 
Its right that NatWest told Miss R that she needed to report it to the police herself, rather 
than NatWest doing it. Thats because she was the victim here and she was the one wanting 
it to be dealt with. Whether Miss R and her ex-husband stayed on the standard variable rate 
or moved to this new product didnt impact NatWest, and it hadnt been defrauded as no 
money had been illegally obtained from it. Miss R is the one that was impacted by what she 
says her ex-husband did, not NatWest, and it doesnt form part of the regulatory customer 
relationship for NatWest to have to report it to the police on her behalf.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and so I make no order or award. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman