DRN-4245217
The complaint
Miss C complains that following the theft of her car One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) 
declined her claim and avoided (treated it as though it never existed) her motor insurance 
policy.  
What happened
Miss Cs car was stolen in July 2022. She reported it to One Insurance. She says it took a 
long time to get a response from the business. It subsequently wrote to her in December 
declining her claim. She didnt think this was fair and so she complained. 
In its final complaint response One Insurance says when validating the claim, it found an 
SP30 speeding offence hadnt been declared along with two open claims. This didnt prevent 
Miss Cs claim being considered. However, One Insurance says it requested Miss Cs V5 
logbook for further validation. On receipt of this it found the cars keeper was registered 
under the name of a business. 
One Insurance says the keeper must be the policyholder or their spouse for cover to be 
provided under its underwriting criteria. Had the actual keeper been disclosed when the 
policy was taken out, One Insurance says it wouldnt have provided cover. However, the 
business acknowledged its delay in responding to Miss Cs claim and paid her £200 
compensation. 
Miss C didnt think shed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says because Miss C hadnt taken reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation regarding the keeper of the vehicle, One Insurance 
had behaved fairly in declining the claim and avoiding her policy. 
Miss C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One Insurance says Miss C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when confirming the registered keeper of her vehicle was her spouse. It says the keeper has 
to be either the policy holder or their spouse otherwise it wont offer cover. It says it doesnt 
think Miss C acted recklessly or deliberately when providing the wrong information. Rather it 
thought this was careless. This is why it refunded the policy premium. But the keeper of the 
vehicle is a business, not Miss Cs spouse, which is why it declined the claim and avoided 
the policy. 
We asked One Insurance to provide the questions Miss C was asked when she took out the 
policy to see if these were clear. It sent screen shots of the questions she was asked during 
her online application. The question relating to the registered keeper says:
Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper of this car? If your name appears in the cars 
log book (V5 registration document) you will be the registered keeper.
Miss C confirmed her spouse was the registered keeper. 
There is also an information box provided alongside this question. It says:
Registered keeper
The registered keeper is the person whose name appears in the cars log book (V5C). The 
owner of the car and the registered keeper can be different people. For example, a leasing 
company might be the legal owner of a car, but if youre leasing it you could be the 
registered keeper. Check whether youre the cars registered keeper by looking at whos 
name is on the vehicles log book (V5C).  
I think the question Miss C was asked was clear  and the information explaining how to find 
this out, if she was unsure, was also made clear. Had Miss C checked the V5C document 
she would have seen the registered keeper was recorded as a business  not her spouse. 
Ive read the renewal information that Miss C was sent in July 2022. On the front page of the 
letter it says, Its important that you read all of the information contained in this renewal 
invitation to ensure it is up-to-date and accurate. This message is repeated lower down on 
the same page. It instructs Miss C to read her policy schedule and statement of fact, 
available in her customer portal or from the printed documents it recently sent.  
The statement of fact document confirms Miss C as the owner and her spouse as the 
registered keeper of her vehicle. It also says:
It is an offence under the Road Traffic Act to make a false statement or withhold any 
material information for the purpose of obtaining a Certificate of Insurance. You are urged in 
your own interest to ensure that this form is fully and correctly completed. Material 
information is information ONE Insurance would regard as likely to influence the acceptance 
and assessment of the contract (if you are in any doubt you should disclose the 
information).Based on this evidence I dont think Miss C took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out her insurance policy. 
Ive thought about whether its reasonable for One Insurance to consider that Miss C made a 
careless misrepresentation. I think it is. I dont think this is something she did deliberately, 
but she was provided with clear information to be able to provide an accurate response. 
Ive seen One Insurances underwriting criteria. This is considered commercially sensitive 
information, so I cant share it. But its clear that only the proposer, spouse or a leasing 
company are considered acceptable keepers of the vehicle. This requirement wasnt met in 
Miss Cs case, and she gave inaccurate information that meant One Insurance thought it 
had. 
In these circumstances One Insurance is able to decline Miss Cs claim and avoid the policy 
in line with the CIDRA rules. It has provided its system records that show a refund for 
£869.74 was paid to Miss C in respect of the policy premium. I think this was fair and in line 
with the CIDRA rules.  
Ive thought about the delay in One Insurance providing its decline decision to Miss C. This 
took around five months. Discrepancies were found with undeclared speeding offences and 
claims. But I cant see any reason why it took One Insurance this length of time to confirm its 
decision. This caused Miss C worry and distress. In the circumstances I think One Insurance 
should pay compensation to acknowledge this point. But I think its payment for £200 is fair, 
so I wont ask it to pay more. 
   
In summary, although Im sorry to disappoint Miss C, I dont think One Insurance treated her 
unfairly when it relied on its policy terms to decline her claim and avoid her policy for the 
reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman