DRN-3347546
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly turned 
down a claim on her mobile phone insurance policy.
Reference to Watford includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs W bought a phone in April 2020. Her daughter used it initially but after upgrading her 
phone gave the handset back to Mrs W. In December 2020 Mrs W insured the phone as she 
intended to use it but put it in a drawer without doing so. It was only some months later, in 
May 2021, after her own phone began to show signs of age that she remembered she had 
this phone. She said that while she was transferring the data between the two handsets she 
dropped the phone insured with Watford, damaging the screen.
Mrs W claimed on her policy for the damage to her phone but Watford turned down her 
claim. It said it was a requirement of the policy that the phone was in use and had a 
functioning SIM card. Mrs W didnt meet those criteria.
Mrs W brought her complaint about Watfords decision to turn down her claim to us. I issued 
a provisional decision on 21 February 2022. For ease I've copied the relevant extract below. 
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws policy says that Watford won't cover a claim where: proof of usage isnt provided; if 
the phone isnt fitted with an active functioning SIM; or where the network provider can't 
verify that the phone has been in constant use between the policy beginning and the event 
giving rise to the claim.
In this case its not in dispute that Mrs W doesn't meet these policy criteria. Mrs W has been 
clear that she hadn't ever used the phone prior to making her claim. But she thinks its unfair 
for Watford to apply the terms in this case.
The requirement for a functioning SIM card isn't an unusual or uncommon term in mobile 
phone insurance policies. And I note that Mrs Ws policy is clear about this term and that it 
sets out the requirement for a functioning SIM in the policys key information summary. And 
its up to individual insurers to decide for themselves which risks they wish to cover and 
those that they don't. In this case Watford has decided it doesn't wish to cover a phone that 
isnt in active use. Thats a decision its entitled to come to, regardless that Mrs W might not 
agree with it.
There could be a number of reasons why Watford insists that the phone is in use in order for 
its cover to apply. For example, that could be because a phone that is actively being used 
demonstrates its almost certainly in good working order throughout the lifetime of the policy. 
And Watford might not want to cover phones that might have pre-existing faults or damage, 
as that could expose Watford to the risk of paying out a claim for a phone which was 
damaged before the policy started. Alternatively, Watford might consider that policyholders 
who are actively using their phones are more likely to take greater care of them than a 
phone which is only used occasionally, rarely or not at all. And that could affect how 
regularly policyholders make claims. But, whatever Watfords reasons for applying these 
terms, as I've said above, those are decisions its entitled to come to. And I dont find the 
terms inherently unfair. So I think its reasonable for Watford to apply them. It follows that I 
dont think it was unfair for Watford to turn down Mrs Ws claim.
Developments
Mrs W said that contrary to [my] advice not all mobile phone insurance policies required the 
policyholder to be able to provide usage in order to make a successful damage claim. She 
added that she understood that insurers could apply whatever terms they chose. She said 
shed felt daunted by the task of transferring the data to the new phone; so she put it in a 
drawer and simply forgot about it until her old phone began to deteriorate. At that point she 
remembered the other phone but dropped it preventing any further use. She said:
Considering I did not put the sim card in the phone immediately prior purchase (in fact I did, 
but only for a few moments!), at no stage was the insurance going to be valid, so, if the final 
decision is to reject the complaint, then I request a full refund of premium paid.
We asked Watford if it was prepared to offer Mrs W a refund of premium; it said it wasn't.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Mrs W appears to have misunderstood my provisional findings. I didnt say or advise that all 
mobile phone policies required a functioning SIM card in order to make a successful claim. 
What I actually said was that such a term was not unusual or uncommon. But the policy 
documents were clear that the term applied to this policy. And the fact that other policies 
dont include this term doesn't make it unfair for Watford to decline a claim when the 
condition wasnt met. So I remain satisfied that it was reasonable for Watford to turn down 
Mrs Ws claim as she didnt meet the policy requirements.
Mrs W has now argued that, as her policy wasnt ever going to be valid Watford should give 
her a refund of premium. As a matter of courtesy we asked Watford if it was prepared to do 
this. It said it wasn't. But this wasnt a point of complaint Mrs W had made previously. So it's 
not something we've investigated. That means I havent looked into the circumstances of the 
sale, or how the policy was sold and by whom. I dont know: what, if anything, was 
discussed; what questions Mrs W was asked; how she answered those; or whether there 
was any non-disclosure or misrepresentation. All of those are things which could potentially 
affect whether or not a refund of premium is appropriate.
In those circumstances, without investigating the matter, I dont think it would be fair for me 
to instruct Watford, at this time, to refund Mrs W her full policy premium. But, this is 
something she might want to consider complaining about separately if she so chooses.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman