DRN-3361068
The complaint
Mr B complains that RCI Financial Services Limited mishandled the cancellation of his hire 
agreement.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr B acquired a new car funded by a hire agreement with RCI. The process 
was handled electronically and the car was delivered to Mr B. Subsequently he had a 
number of concerns about the car and complained to RCI. It didnt uphold his complaint 
about the quality of the car.
In February 2021, he contacted RCI to exercise his right under The Consumer Contracts 
(Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 (which I shall refer to 
as the regulations) to cancel the agreement. Mr B complained that RCI had failed to comply 
with the regulations which state: 
Before the consumer is bound by an off-premises contract, the trader
(a)must give the consumer the information listed in Schedule 2 in a clear and 
comprehensible manner, and
(b)if a right to cancel exists, must give the consumer a cancellation form as set out in part B 
of Schedule 3.
(2) The information and any cancellation form must be given on paper or, if the consumer 
agrees, on another durable medium and must be legible.
Mr B didnt receive the contract in paper form and has argued that the contract has been 
breached and so he should be allowed the return the car without penalty.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He concluded that the contract was one which was covered by the regulations. He 
noted the cancellation form had not been supplied in paper format, but he also said that Mr B 
had not contacted RCI about cancellation until some eight months after he took delivery. He 
didnt believe the failure to supply a paper form had affected Mr Bs cancellation rights.
Mr B didnt agree and said that the regulations were legally binding and the failure to provide 
the form on paper meant he had 12 months in which to cancel the agreement. He didnt 
consider our investigators approach of relying on what he deemed to be fair and reasonable 
to be right. He felt the decision was arbitrary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the arguments out forward by Mr B, but I do not consider I can uphold his 
complaint. I will explain why.
The regulations require that the relevant information on cancellation and the form must be 
given on paper. I am satisfied that this did not happen. The agreement which was sent 
electronically does contain all the relevant information and the cancellation form. It reads:
2.1 You have the right to cancel this Agreement under the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 within 14 days without giving any 
reason.
12.2 The cancellation period will expire after 14 days from the day after the conclusion of this 
contract which will be the date of this Agreement. To meet the cancellation deadline, it is 
sufficient for you to send your communication concerning your exercise of the right to cancel 
before the cancellation period has expired.
12.3 To exercise the right to cancel, you must inform us using the details contained on page 
1 of your Agreement of your decision to cancel this Agreement by a clear statement sent to 
us by post [or by emailing us at []]. You may use the attached cancellation form, but this is 
not obligatory.
However, to ensure that your cancellation is received by us within 14 days of the conclusion 
of this contract which will be the date of this Agreement, please send such cancellation by 
recorded delivery [and/or Email] which will be acknowledged so that you have evidence of 
sending your cancellation. A standard cancellation form was attached.
In practical terms Mr B had all the information he needed to cancel the contract within the 14 
days allowed, but as he rightly says this was not in paper form. RCI has failed to adhere to 
the strict rules despite making the information available in an electronic format. 
This service seeks to put people back in the position they would have been had the error or 
failure not occurred. So I have to consider what would have happened had RCI followed the 
regulations and supplied a paper copy? The short answer is that I cannot conclude Mr B 
would have acted differently. I appreciate Mr B was unhappy with the car for a number of 
reasons, but nothing indicates that he would have sought to cancel the contract within 14 
days. He only explored that option many months later. I can only conclude the failure to 
provide a paper copy had no impact on Mr Bs situation.
That means I do not consider Mr B should have the £1,400 he paid to return the car early 
refunded. Finally I would confirm I agree, as does Mr B, that his complaint about the quality 
of the car was made out of time and so this service is unable to consider it. As for the 
compensation for the issue with the handling of Mr Bs complaint I consider the offer of £100 
to be fair.
Putting things right
RCI Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that RCI Financial Services Limited should pay £100 if it has not already 
done so.
My final decision
Your text hereUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman