DRN-4176336
The complaint
O, a company, complains about a claim it made on its AXA Insurance UK Plc commercial 
insurance policy.
The complaint is brought by Mr B, a Director of O, on Os behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here except to say that our investigator didnt uphold Os complaint. 
O doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I cant award compensation for personal distress or pain and suffering to O as a result of 
how AXA handled its claim, because O is a commercial entity. I appreciate that the way 
in which the claim has unfolded had a significant impact on Mr B and his Mother, but 
they arent the complainants - O is - and as such I cant make any awards in their favour. 
I dont need to determine whether AXA were right to apply an average clause to the 
building aspect of Os claim or comment on the issue of underinsurance because O 
didnt suffer a loss here. The third party responsible for the damage to Os building has 
indemnified O for the balance of the reinstatement costs due after AXA paid part of that 
claim. Because theres no loss to O, I dont need to consider whether AXA need to do 
anything further.
The policy terms make clear that business interruption cover is offered in respect of: 
The loss of Trading Profit due to (a) Reduction in Turnover and (b) Increase in Cost of 
Working and the amount payable by which the Turnover during the Indemnity Period 
shall in consequence of the Damage fall short of the Standard Turnover. From what Ive 
seen O has challenged AXAs calculations in reliance on evidence from its accountant. 
The evidence Ive seen amounts to a letter setting out that loss of turnover for the 
relevant period amounts to £70,000 with no further detail. Its not unreasonable for AXA 
to challenge that by seeking evidence for the breakdown of that sum based on the 
advice of their loss adjuster. This could include the profit and loss accounts for previous 
years as well as evidence of what costs have increased as a result of inflation (as 
contended by O). 
AXA has said its prepared to reconsider the business interruption claim once it receives 
appropriate evidence. Without that kind of evidence, I wouldnt expect AXA to do 
anything further in respect of this claim. I note Mr B says his accountant has provided 
more than the letter Ive mentioned. I havent had sight of anything further, but given 
what AXA says, its likely that whats been provided doesnt fully evidence Os position. If 
O wants AXA to consider the claim further, it will need to provide the type of evidence 
Ive mentioned. I appreciate that Mr B doesnt think he needs to provide the evidence of 
costs increasing as a result of inflation because he feels everyone is affected by the cost 
of living crisis. Whilst that may be the case, O will need to demonstrate its losses and to 
make a successful claim so it will need to show specifically how its impacted by rising 
costs, with evidence. 
Mr B has provided recent correspondence between him and AXA in relation to the 
business interruption insurance claim. Im not able to comment on this or any ongoing 
discussions between AXA and O after this complaint was brought to us as AXA has not 
had an opportunity to respond to everything. If Mr B is unhappy with the way in which 
these discussions are progressing, they will form part of a new complaint to AXA. 
I note that AXA have accepted Os position that around 60% of bookings were taken by 
O for guests by one website and the remaining amount through another and that they will 
factor this into their final calculation of the clam for business interruption. I agree that was 
a reasonable position to adopt.
 AXA havent made any further interim payments for business interruption insurance to O 
because O has refused this. If O changes its mind about this, it should let AXA know.
I cant determine whether the electricity usage captured by a specialist contractor 
appointed by AXA is correct. AXA is entitled to rely on the reports submitted by that 
contractor. If O disagrees with this, it will need to provide evidence to the contrary for 
AXA to consider.
O is unhappy that AXA initially told it to house Mr B in one of its available rooms when 
these rooms were intended for customers. A room was available, so I dont think the 
position AXA initially took was unreasonable, particularly because AXA were factoring in 
the loss of profit from this into the business interruption insurance claim in any event. 
AXA eventually agreed to pay for Mr B to be housed somewhere else. I appreciate the 
payment made in respect of this was received late but as there was no loss to O in 
respect of this, I cant say AXA need to do anything more.
I dont think AXA is responsible for Os difficulty in finding a new insurance policy after 
the current one expired. AXA say they no longer offer this type of insurance so werent 
prepared to renew the policy. Its up to an insurer to decide what terms theyre prepared 
to offer insurance on. The fact that they werent prepared to renew the policy doesnt 
mean theyre responsible for Os inability to source insurance elsewhere. Its inevitable in 
a claim of this value and complexity that it will take some time to resolve. So, whilst the 
claim wasnt concluded by the time the policy expired, and needed renewing, this wasnt 
something I think could be helped in the circumstances.
O is unhappy with the sums offered in respect of the contents claim. Its not unusual for 
an insurer to expect proof of value for items claimed. And it was reasonable for AXA to 
rely on the evidence of its own valuation experts. If O considers the items havent been 
valued correctly, it should provide evidence of this to AXA. I would expect AXA to 
consider this accordingly.
I havent considered any delays in AXA progressing Os claim that were referred to by 
AXA in their final response letter of January 2022 as O is out of time to bring that complaint. I have however considered the remaining delays complained of and I think 
that AXA have recognised the only real issue of concern. This was in relation to a 
complex loss adjuster being instructed later than it should have been. AXA have paid O 
£200 in recognition of the inconvenience this caused, which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances- particularly as there wasnt any financial loss to O as a result. I havent 
awarded anything in relation to delays relating to underinsurance being discovered 
because as Ive said above, there was no financial loss to O as a result of this either.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Os complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman