DRN-2961065
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
  
What happened
Miss H says she received a text message in February 2021 from HSBC asking her if shed 
set up a new payee on her account. She responded that she hadnt and received a further 
text message which said, 
Your request for a new payee has been Cancelled successfully. 
A fraud specialist will call you on your registered mobile number within 2-4 hours.
The message went on to provide a reference number and said Miss H would need this to 
confirm her identity when the specialist called. Miss H then received a call from HSBC. The 
caller completed security and Miss H said he knew a lot of personal information like her date 
of birth, address, sort-code, account number, balance and the answer to her HSBC security 
question. 
The caller told Miss H that someone had called HSBC pretending to be her and tried to set 
up a payment for £6,000. This person knew her date of birth and answers to her security 
questions meaning her funds were at risk. Miss H was told she needed to move all of her 
funds, including from her savings account with HSBC, to a new account that would be set up 
for her. The account would be activated on receipt of funds. But as it would take time to set 
the account up and Miss Hs funds werent safe, she was told to transfer the funds in her 
current and savings accounts to her branch manager who would credit her account when the 
account was set up. The caller told Miss H that hed arranged an appointment for her to 
attend the branch to meet the manager the following day at 10.30 so that her direct debits 
could be sorted out.
Miss H says she questioned how she could be sure the caller was from HSBC and was told 
to check the number shed been called from against the number on the back of her debit 
card. The numbers matched. The caller talked her through moving her funds from her 
savings account to her current account and then on to the branch manager using her mobile 
app. The total amount Miss H transferred was £5,801.13. After she had made the payment 
the phone line cut out, but Miss H received a call back straight away which she says further 
reassured her. She was told she could stay on the line while the account was set up or 
receive a call later that day. Miss H asked for a call back, but this didnt happen so the 
following day she called HSBC. During this call Miss H was told she was the victim of a 
scam. 
What HSBC says
HSBC says it should have done more to protect Miss H before she made the payment, but 
that Miss H should also bear some responsibility because she could have made further 
checks. It has refunded 50% of her loss. HSBC also accepts that one of its agents wasnt 
helpful during a call and didnt correctly transfer the call so paid £30 in to Miss Hs account to 
compensate her. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Miss Hs complaint felt that HSBC should refund her loss in 
full. She said HSBC hadnt shown Miss H lacked a reasonable basis for belief and also that 
HSBC should have taken steps which would have prevented the scam from taking place. 
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said Miss H didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing she was following a legitimate payment instruction or the person with 
whom she was transacting was genuine because:
- There are many publicly available warnings about scams of this nature, including 
from HSBC and this service.
- Miss H didnt verify the caller was from HSBC by calling back on a number she knew 
to be HSBCs, even though she had concerns (as she asked the caller how she 
would know they were calling from HSBC). 
- It was only possible for someone to know Miss Hs balance if she had shared details.
- The story Miss H was given about the need to transfer funds to a bank manager was 
implausible and should have aroused suspicion. 
- Miss H transferred funds to an account with a different sort code. HSBC says that 
although she has said she wasnt aware of the meaning of this she has many 
beneficiaries with different sort codes. 
- The fact that Miss H says she didnt see any warnings demonstrates she wasnt 
taking sufficient care. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says in this case Miss H 
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing the payee was the person 
she was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the 
person or business with whom she transacted was legitimate. 
I am also mindful that when Miss H made these payments, HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that:Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Miss H 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
HSBC should in any event have intervened when Miss H made the payment as it 
was unusual and out of character for Miss H and if it had done so, I am satisfied the 
fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss H 
lost.
Miss H has said the money in her savings account would have been used as a 
deposit for a joint house purchase. Its difficult to know if this would have gone ahead 
so I consider the fairest approach would be to assume the money in Miss Hs savings 
account would more likely than not have remained there and so HSBC should also 
pay interest calculated at the savings account rate from the date that money left the 
account to the date of settlement.
In respect of the money taken from Miss Hs current account, its not clear how she 
would have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done. So 
HSBC should also pay interest on the money that was in Miss Hs current account 
that should have been refunded at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.  
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Miss H had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Miss H failed to take the requisite level 
of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Miss H lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Im satisfied Miss H was completely unaware of the possibility that fraudsters could 
spoof text messages in the way they did here. So when Miss H received the text 
messages she believed theyd been sent by HSBC. Banks can and do text 
customers about possible fraudulent activity on their account. Im also satisfied Miss 
H was unaware that phone numbers can be spoofed so that calls appear to come 
from a genuine source. During her call to HSBC when Miss H was told shed been 
scammed she repeatedly pointed to the fact that she was called from the number on 
the back of her card and this was why she trusted the caller. The text followed by the 
expected call persuaded Miss H she was speaking to HSBC, so she had no reason 
to hang up and call back on a trusted number. And the warning HSBC gave to Miss 
H didnt alert her to the fact numbers can be spoofed.
The caller took Miss H through a verification process in the way a genuine bank 
would and knew personal details about her in the same way a genuine bank would. 
Im persuaded this reinforced Miss Hs belief she was talking to the genuine HSBC. 
In response to the investigators opinion HSBC said the scammer couldnt have 
known Miss Hs account balance unless she shared these details. Its hard to know 
how scammers obtain these details but other scam victims have told us the same 
thing. The fact the caller knew Miss Hs balance is relevant to her basis for belief 
though and is one of a number of factors that persuaded her she was talking to her 
bank. In any event its clear the spoofing left Miss H in no doubt she was talking to 
her bank. Overall Miss H received text messages she believed to be from HSBC followed by a 
call she was expecting given the content of the second text message she received. 
The call was made from what Miss H believed to be a genuine HSBC number. The 
caller gave a plausible reason for moving funds to a branch manager  that Miss Hs 
funds were at risk and it would take time to set up a new account. In the 
circumstances I can understand why someone like Miss H, who isnt familiar with 
banking processes, would be persuaded by what she was told. Whilst the story given 
to Miss H to persuade her to transfer funds to a bank manager may seem implausible 
to HSBC, given its knowledge of scams of this nature, I dont think its reasonable to 
conclude that Miss H lacked a reasonable basis for belief because she wasnt 
suspicious.
The level of trust built up by the scammer, combined with the persuasive nature of 
the caller and the urgency of the situation, meant Miss H felt compelled to act quickly 
to protect her funds and reasonably believed she was doing the right thing.
I dont find HSBCs point about Miss H not questioning the destination account being 
outside of HSBC to be powerful in this case. Im satisfied Miss H didnt know how to 
check that her funds were going to an HSBC account and dont consider it 
reasonable to expect customers to be able to identify destination accounts by their 
sort code. In the circumstances, I dont find Miss H can be said not to have had a 
reasonable basis for belief in not carrying out such checks.
HSBC has also referred to widely available warnings about scams like the one Miss 
H fell victim to. Its clear from the call, in which Miss H was told she was the victim of 
a scam that she had no knowledge of scams of this nature. Even when shed been 
told she was the victim of a scam Miss H said, I genuinely dont think it was a 
scam. So I dont consider that Miss H lacked a reasonable basis for belief for this 
reason. 
Finally, HSBC has said the fact Miss H says she didnt see the warning that said 
HSBC will never ask customers to move money shows she wasnt taking sufficient 
care. I dont think this conclusion properly takes in to account the circumstances of 
the scam, the pressure Miss H was under to protect her funds or her belief she was 
talking to her bank. In the circumstances, its understandable that Miss H didnt see 
the warning, or it didnt resonate with her. 
Could HSBC have done anything else to prevent the scam, bearing in mind good industry
practice at the time and considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
case?
In addition, Im persuaded that HSBC ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this
scam. I say this because the scam payment was to a new payee and was significantly larger 
than any transaction Miss H had made in the period before the scam. The majority of the 
payments Miss H made were low value (below £100) and the largest payment she made in 
the six months before the scam was for £530. When Miss H made the payment, she cleared 
her savings account and almost cleared her current account. So there were safe account 
scam indications here. I consider HSBC should have asked Miss H questions about the 
payment and that had it done so the scam would have been uncovered and the payment 
wouldnt have been made.   
The relevance of this finding is that HSBC ought to have prevented the loss, rather than
just reimbursed Miss H under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that HSBC should 
pay Miss H interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund herunder the CRM Code.
Distress and inconvenience
I also think its appropriate to make a modest award of £300 for the trouble and upset Miss H
has experienced in this matter. Miss H has explained that the lost funds were due to be used 
as a deposit for a home and that the loss of them caused significant stress as she was not 
able to go ahead with the purchase after the scam. Im mindful that her loss was ultimately 
caused by the cruel acts of a fraudster, but HSBC, at least, should have refunded her loss 
under the provisions of the CRM Code and, Im persuaded, it ought to have prevented the 
scam altogether. Had it done so, much of the trouble and upset caused to Miss H would 
have been avoided.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) a customer should be refunded all the money 
that was lost. So I think its fair that HSBC refund the remaining 50% of Miss Hs losses, 
together with interest and compensation as set out below.
  
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund the remaining 50% of the money lost less any further sum already refunded;
Pay interest at account interest rate from the date of loss to the date of settlement on 
the part of the above sum transferred from Miss Hs savings account;
Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement on the funds that were lost directly from Miss Hs current account.
In respect of the sum HSBC has already refunded (50% of the loss) HSBC should pay 
interest from the date of the transaction until the date of the refund.
Pay an additional £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman