DRN-3269632
The complaint
Mr T complains AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly turned down his claim after he had to 
cancel his holiday plans.
What happened
Mr T holds travel insurance with AXA PPP. He and his wife had planned to travel abroad to 
stay at their timeshare accommodation in April 2020. Unfortunately, due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, they were unable to travel. 
Mr and Mrs T received a refund for their airline tickets, but made a claim for their overseas 
accommodation costs. 
AXA PPP declined the claim. It said the accommodation costs claimed were timeshare 
maintenance costs, which Mr and Mrs T had to pay annually, regardless of whether or not 
they were able to travel and stay at the properties. 
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Mr T brought the complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think AXA PPP had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
AXA PPP accepted the investigators view. However Mr T disagreed. He said there was no 
exclusion relating to timeshares in his policy wording, and he had been using the same 
policy for many years, and thought this was covered. 
As Mr T disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say AXA PPP has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, I dont think AXA PPP has acted unfairly, and Ill explain why. 
Mr T has referred to a recent change in the terms of his travel policy with AXA PPP. 
However the relevant terms and conditions for me to consider, are those which were in place 
during the October 2019  October 2020 policy year, as this is when Mr and Mrs T were due 
to travel. 
The terms and conditions of the policy terms in place from October 2019, state the following 
under the cancellation and curtailment cover section. 
We will pay for the unused portion of travel and accommodation costs and other pre-
paid charges of the overseas journey (purchased prior to the insured members 
departure date) which the insured member is legally obliged to pay and which cannot 
be recovered from any other source, if the insured member has to cancel or curtail 
the overseas journey necessarily and unavoidably as a result of the following 
events:
The policy goes on to provide a list of circumstances including the following. 
new Foreign and Commonwealth Office guidance which advises against travel to the 
specific country or area that the insured member is booked to travel. By new advice 
we mean that the advice must have been introduced following the booking of the 
overseas journey and after the purchase date of this travel policy. We recommend 
that you contact the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or your tour operator/airline 
before booking your overseas journey to establish the current Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advice. Relevant information is available on their website: 
fco.gov.uk.
Mr and Mrs T cancelled their holiday plans due to advice against travel from the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Development office, so Im satisfied their reason for cancellation is covered. 
However, Ive not been persuaded that the costs they claimed for fall within the policy terms 
of cover. 
The terms specify AXA PPP will pay for the unused portion of travel and accommodation 
costs and other pre-paid charges of the overseas journey which the insured member is 
legally obliged to pay and which cannot be recovered from any other source. However I 
dont think Mr and Mrs Ts costs can reasonably be described as unused accommodation 
costs. I say this because the evidence Ive seen shows the costs were annual fees and 
maintenance charges in relation to the timeshare accommodation  rather than a specific 
cost to stay in the accommodation for the period of travel. I note these costs are payable 
annually, to maintain the timeshare membership and entitlement to stay at the properties, so 
would have been payable regardless of whether or not Mr and Mrs T had used the 
accommodation in that year. And because of this, I dont think it was unfair for AXA PPP to 
turn down the claim on the basis that the type of costs claimed for, were not covered by the 
policy. 
Mr T has said there is no exclusion within the policy which states timeshare costs are not 
covered. I agree thats the case, but I dont think it would be reasonable to expect AXA PPP 
to list everything which is not covered under the policy. And as Ive explained above, Im 
satisfied that it was fair for AXA PPP to deem the annual timeshare charges were not 
unused accommodation costs, and to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman