DRN-3789563
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W are unhappy AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) declined a 
claim they made under their buildings insurance policy. 
Mr W has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr W noticed some uneven tiles in his ensuite bathroom. He says he 
ceased using the ensuite and made a claim with AA which he later decided to withdraw. Mr 
W says he couldnt find a leak and says it took him a further four months to arrange a more 
thorough investigation due to a combination of Covid-19 and the festive period. So, he made 
a claim to AA in February 2022.
Mr Ws plumber has said in summary that the damage has occurred because there was 
insufficient adhesive on the floor and wall tiles which has caused voids and has allowed 
water to seep through over time. 
AA declined the claim as it excludes cover for damage that is caused gradually over time.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he felt Mr W couldnt reasonably have been aware 
of the damage happening and took reasonable action once becoming aware. He also felt AA 
should remove the February 2022 claim from its records and any relevant databases to 
avoid Mr W having two claims recorded for the same event.  The AA agreed to remove the 
recording of the second claim and treat this as one claim, but it still declines the claim. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a decision.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 24 October 2022. This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand AA has agreed to record this as one claim, so I wont be making any further 
comment on this point.
The crux of this complaint is about the declination of the claim.
Firstly, to make a claim the onus is on the policyholders to show they have a valid claim that 
can be considered under an insured peril of the policy.
Ive considered the policy document. AA hasnt clearly defined what peril it was considering 
the claim under but taking the event as described by Mr W I can only assume that AA has 
considered this event under Section 4 - Buildings cover, point 9  any other accidental loss 
or accidental damage to your building. Having reviewed matters carefully, I cant see that the 
event would be covered under any other peril on the policy.
I can see from the final response that AA has relied on an exclusion to decline the claim, so 
it has accepted there was accidental damage.
The exclusion it has relied on is Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes 
including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
Mr W hasnt disputed that the damage has happened over time and his plumbers report 
indicates this as well as it says, There were also signs of fungus, which demonstrates it had 
been happening for some time. So, Im persuaded the damage has happened gradually, 
and it doesnt matter whether Mr W should have been aware of the damage or not as our 
approach at this Service is that it is fair for an insurer to rely on this exclusion to decline a 
claim when it is considered under accidental damage. This is to protect Insurers from paying 
claims that are really maintenance issues that any homeowner is liable for. So, Im satisfied 
it was fair and reasonable for AA to decline the claim and I dont intend to ask it to do 
anything more.
Responses to provisional decision.
In summary Mr W has said he has always maintained his property to a high standard. The 
event was unforeseen and not evident until it manifested in the way it did and he promptly 
sought a remedy, so he feels it is unfair and unreasonable to suggest he should have been 
aware when there were no visible signs. 
AA has said it has nothing else to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws response has reiterated what I had already considered in the provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr Ws depth of feeling on this matter but unfortunately insurance policies do 
not cover every eventuality. I have already explained in my decision our approach when 
considering claims that are made under the accidental damage part of a policy when the 
damage was caused gradually. I therefore remain of the opinion that AA do not need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman