DRN-1552197
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited mis-sold a car insurance 
policy to her. She said it didnt explain that protecting her No Claims Discount wouldnt 
protect the premium she pays if a claim was made under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2018 Miss K bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Hastings via an 
online comparison website. The sale of the policy was non advised so Hastings didnt 
advise Miss K as to the suitability of the policy. 
Miss K claimed under her policy. At renewal in October 2019 Miss K was unhappy that her 
premium had gone up. She believed it was protected from rising as shed protected her 
NCD. She complained to Hastings as she said it had mis-sold the policy to her. 
Hastings didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. It said she was advised that the premium wouldnt 
be protected from a rise in the event of a claim on the comparison website before she 
bought the policy. And it was explained in the policy document that the premium wasnt 
protected from an increase in the event of a claim even if she protected her NCD.
Miss K remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said Hastings misled 
her into believing that by protecting her NCD she was protecting the premium she paid if she 
made a claim. She wanted Hastings to pay compensation of £200 to cover the difference in 
the premium at renewal compared to the year before. She also wants Hastings to change 
the wording it uses to explain how protected NCD works. 
Our investigator thought Hastings had acted reasonably. Miss K didnt agree. She said the 
main point of her complaint is that her premium shouldnt have increased solely as a result of 
the claims made under her policy  as shed protected her NCD. 
Miss K believes the insurer can raise the premium to whatever it wants  in practice eroding 
whatever value there was in protecting NCD. The argument that it would have been worse if 
she hadnt protected the NCD at all reinforces her point that the cover was not wholly 
effective.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings has sent us a copy of the wording Miss K was provided with when she applied for 
the policy on the comparison website. The key wording says:
If you choose to, you can pay extra to protect your no-claims discount. This allows 
you to
make a number of claims within a year without jeopardising your NCD - and it can be 
worth
the money. Drivers who make a claim within five years can expect their premiums to 
rise by
as much as 6% according to research by (comparison website name)*. However, the 
cost of cover would increase by only 5% if the no claims discount were protected. 
Miss Ks insurance policy says:
If youve chosen to protect your no claims discount, this will be shown on your 
schedule. Please note that this doesn't guarantee your premium will remain the 
same.
So I dont agree that Hastings as her broker misled Miss K. And as her broker, it doesnt set 
the premium she pays. This is something the insurer decides. 
The number of years NCD a customer has  as well as their claims history  can impact on 
the premium they pay. I can see that Miss Ks NCD didnt reduce even though claims were 
made under her policy. So it was protected from being otherwise reduced and therefore 
achieved its purpose. I appreciate that Miss K says neither of those claims were her fault. 
And I understand that Hastings told her the difference in the premium was solely due to the 
fact that the claims had been made  and not due to any other factors. But I think it was 
clearly explained to Miss K  both on the comparison website  and in Miss Ks policy  that 
protecting her NCD didnt protect her premium from going up if a claim was made. 
I understand Miss K will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think Hastings mis-sold the policy to her. So I dont think it needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman