DRN-3219426
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt reimbursed him after he transferred 
money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 to explain why I thought Mr Bs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. This is 
an extract from that provisional decision:
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr B has been the victim of a scam. He was tricked 
into sending £60,000 to invest in a bond that appeared to be offered by a legitimate 
company. However, unbeknown to Mr B, he had actually been dealing with scammers 
who were operating as a clone of a legitimate FCA regulated investment firm  using 
what appears to be all of their genuine literature and documentation. In total, Mr B made 
the following payments:
£25,000 payment on 19 February 2019
£25,000 payment on 20 February 2019
£10,000 payment on 21 February 2019
Mr B made all of the above transfers online using his online banking without any 
interaction with HSBC staff. However, he feels that HSBC shouldve identified the 
payments he was attempting to make as suspicious and says that HSBC shouldve 
contacted him to discuss the payments before it agreed to process them on his behalf. Mr 
B believes that had HSBC done so, the scam wouldve come to light, and he wouldnt 
have proceeded to make the transfers.
HSBC didnt agree that it could have done anything more than it already had to protect 
Mr B and so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt the transactions Mr B made werent 
unusual and out of character when compared to his usual account activity and so she 
didnt think there would have been a reason for HSBC to have questioned Mr B about the 
payments before they allowed them to leave his account. She also thought HSBC had 
done all it could to recover Mr Bs funds once notified of the scam but the funds had 
already been removed from the receiving account prior to Mr B informing HSBC of what 
had happened. She agreed that Mr B had been provided with some incorrect information 
from HSBC during the course of his complaint but felt that the offer put forward to 
compensate Mr B for this mistake, £100, was fair and reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said he had done all he could at the 
time to ensure that the company he was dealing was legitimate. He had fallen victim 
through no fault of his own and should therefore be compensated under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model which sets out that victims of fraud should be offered a refund in 
scenarios such as the one he had found himself in. He reiterated that the transactions from 
his account shouldve looked suspicious to HSBC  they were for large amounts to a new 
payee and said that he should have been contacted prior to them being processed. He 
also said that HSBC shouldve had a system in place at the time that couldve identified 
that the payments were not going to an account in the name of the firm he thought he was 
dealing with, also known as Confirmation of Payee. Mr B said had this system been in 
place at the time, the scam, and therefore his loss, couldve been prevented.
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr B. I have significant sympathy 
for the situation he has found himself in. But having thought very carefully about what 
hes told us happened at the time and HSBCs actions, I dont currently think it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to hold HSBC liable for his loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not currently minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr B, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
HSBC should reimburse him with the money he has unfortunately lost to the scammers. 
Ill explain why.
Mr B has requested that his case be considered, and he be compensated, under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is a voluntary scheme HSBC has signed 
up to, designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to a scam. However, the 
code didnt come into force until 28 May 2019  some months after the payments in 
question here were made. As the code is not retrospective, it isnt applicable to Mr Bs 
circumstances and Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable 
under a code that wasnt in place at the time. And so, Ive then gone on to think about the 
law and regulations that were applicable at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received 
to counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering 
the financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk 
of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the 
increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which 
banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel 
used, have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr B when he transferred £60,000 to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr B authorised the payments himself. He logged into his internet banking and used 
his security details in order to request the payments be made.
Mr B has said he didnt authorise the transactions  as he did not authorise payments to be 
made to fraudulent accounts. But Mr B entered his security details alongside the details of 
the accounts which he intended the funds to be paid to. And whilst we now know that these 
accounts were not legitimate, the funds were regardless paid to the account details Mr B 
had entered and therefore the transactions were requested and authorised by him. 
Because of this, HSBC had an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some 
situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained above. I consider that as a matter of good 
practice HSBC shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive then thought about whether the transfers Mr B made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with his usual account activity. Ive reviewed Mr 
Bs account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and Im not persuaded 
they were. Mr B had made similar payments in the weeks leading up to the scam. For 
example, Mr B had completed the following transactions:
a £25,000 bill payment on 6 February 2019,
a £25,000 bill payment on 8 February 2019, and;
a £25,000 bill payment on 9 February.
And so, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that multiple £25,000 payments taking 
place over consecutive days was unusual for Mr B  he had carried out very similar 
transactions in the weeks before.
Ive also thought about the fact the payments were sent to a new payee. However, I 
dont find that a payment to a new payee is in itself suspicious enough to mean that 
HSBC shouldve considered that Mr B was at risk of financial harm and contacted him 
before it made the payments at his request.
It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that HSBC shouldve identified the payments Mr B made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks  
especially given that Mr B had a relatively high outstanding balance that he appeared to 
be moving around in £25,000 increments.
Ive taken on board what Mr B has said about him being vulnerable at the time and I dont 
doubt he was experiencing some very difficult personal circumstances. But Im not satisfied 
that it was any potential vulnerability that caused Mr B to ultimately fall victim to this scam. 
He himself has told us he went out of his way to carry our varied and numerous checks on 
the business he thought he was dealing with  but the scam was very complex and 
everything looked above board. And so, I dont think any potential vulnerabilities are 
material to the outcome of this complaint.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC couldve done more to help Mr B once it 
was notified of the scam but I dont think it could. HSBC contacted the receiving 
firm upon notification of the scam. But, unfortunately by this point, all of Mr Bs 
funds had been removed from the receiving account.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr B has said about a Confirmation of Payee 
system potentially preventing his loss. But HSBC didnt have this system in place at the 
time and so at the point Mr B made the payments, HSBC wouldnt have been able to tell 
Mr B the payments werent going to an account in the name he thought they were. And 
so again, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold HSBC to a standard that wasnt in 
place at the time.
Additional compensation
Im also satisfied that the £100 compensation offered to Mr B for the upset caused by 
HSBC providing him with incorrect information about the recovery of his funds is fair. I 
acknowledge that this would have unduly raised Mr Bs hope of receiving a refund but 
ultimately the funds had been removed  and the mistake was the message provided. 
Ive also taken on board what Mr B has said about the fraudulent payee details being 
removed from his account, which caused him a scare, but I dont think it would be fair for 
me to say that HSBCs actions in removing the account details were unreasonable when 
it had simply been trying to protect Mr Bs account once notified of the scam. And so, 
overall, Im satisfied that HSBCs offer of £100 compensation is fair and I wont be 
recommending it increase its offer further.
I want to stress that my role in deciding this case is not to assign blame. I recognise that 
Mr B did more due-diligence than most in trying to protect himself from fraud and its clear 
he has unfortunately been a victim here. I am very sorry to hear about the situation he has 
found himself in. But at the same time, dont think his loss was caused by any specific 
failing on behalf of HSBC. The fault lies with the callous acts of the fraudsters themselves.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither HSBC nor Mr B responded to my provisional decision with any further points. As I 
havent been provided with anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons, and I wont be 
upholding this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman