DRN-3831849
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC erroneously set up a Bounce Back Loan in his own 
name, rather than that of his company  meaning he is personally liable for its repayment.
What happened
Mr C opened a business account with Lloyds in 2007. At that time, he operated his business 
as a sole tradership, so the account was opened in his own name.
Mr C later set up a limited company, that Ill refer to as R. R was incorporated in 2015. But 
he retained his sole trader account with Lloyds, and used that for the companys 
transactions.
In May 2020, Mr C applied to Lloyds for a Bounce Back Loan of £25,000. The application 
proceeded in Mr Cs own name, with a loan agreement issued to him and the loan funds 
being drawn down to his sole trader account. Mr C subsequently borrowed a further £15,000 
by way of a top-up loan, which was again processed in his own name and deposited into 
his sole trader account.
Mr C kept up to date with the loan repayments initially. But the loan fell into arrears in 
October 2021. Around this time, Mr C advised Lloyds that hed ceased trading  and the 
bank was sent notice of the intention to dissolve his company. 
Lloyds defaulted the loan and issued a formal demand to Mr C for the immediate repayment 
of the outstanding balance, of around £38,000. 
Mr C doesnt think its fair for Lloyds to hold him personally liable for repayment of the 
Bounce Back Loan debt. His reasons for this are, in summary, that:
When taking out the Bounce Back Loan, his business had been operating as a 
limited company (R). 
All of the money going through his account had been in connection with Rs activity. 
Lloyds had accepted this, without querying that payments intended for R had been 
credited to an account in his own name or telling him that he needed to open a 
separate account for the company.
Lloyds led him to believe that he was taking out the loan for R, and he wouldve acted 
differently if hed known this wasnt the case.
His business is no longer operating, his only income is a state pension and he has no 
means by which to repay the debt  which he thinks shouldve been written off as 
part of the winding-up of his company. 
Lloyds doesnt think its done anything wrong. In short, the bank says that it was Mr C  
rather than R  who held an account with it, that it wasnt notified of this change to the 
business entity, and that the loan application was processed in his name correctly. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
She didnt think that Lloyds had done anything wrong in leaving the account in Mr Cs name 
as it hadnt received a request to change it. The loan had been applied for in Mr Cs name 
and this had been stated on the loan agreement. 
As Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I have some sympathy for the position Mr C finds himself in, I 
dont think there is any basis on which I could require Lloyds to absolve him of responsibility 
for the Bounce Back Loan. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the loan agreement itself. That clearly names Mr C as the borrower, 
rather than R. So there is a contract between Mr C and Lloyds in which he has committed to 
repaying the loan. 
I appreciate that Mr C believed he was applying for the loan on Rs behalf. Lloyds doesnt 
hold a full record of the application, only a summary  so I cant see exactly what he entered 
when asked for the name of the applicant. I accept that he may well have named his limited 
company as the intended borrower. But this wouldve been superseded by the requirement 
to enter the details of the applicants existing account with the bank  in which he wouldve 
entered those of his sole trader account, rather than one belonging to R. So the application 
wouldve proceeded in his own name. 
I cant see that Lloyds said or did anything that wouldve led Mr C to think the account was in 
Rs name  and there is nothing to suggest that the bank was notified of the change in the 
structure of Mr Cs business prior to the Bounce Back Loan application, or that it was asked 
to amend the account. 
I understand Mr C thinks Lloyds shouldve realised that the account was being used by R 
and taken action accordingly. I appreciate his point here; this could  and perhaps should  
have been identified in the banks fulfilment of its various legal and regulatory 
responsibilities. But I dont think I can fairly say that this was the cause of the situation that 
Mr C finds himself in, given all Ive said above. He also had a responsibility to notify the bank 
of changes to the account usage and his business structure, and  superseding all of this 
 there is the fact that the loan agreement that he entered into was in his own name, rather 
than Rs. 
Ultimately, whatever Mr Cs intentions or understanding, the loan agreement that he was 
provided with clearly named him as the borrower  with no mention of R whatsoever. I think 
it is reasonable to have expected him to review the agreement carefully before signing it, 
and to have queried anything that wasnt in line with his expectations.
Were R still trading, and therefore capable of taking on the liability, I can see that there might 
be a case for simply transferring the loan to the company (irrespective of where 
responsibility for the issue arising might lie). But R has since been dissolved. So if I were to 
absolve Mr C of his liability for repayment of the loan, I would effectively be asking the bank 
to write it off. I dont think that would be fair. Taking all of this into account, I dont think Lloyds is acting unfairly in seeking repayment of 
the Bounce Back Loan from Mr C. I would, however, expect it to treat Mr C fairly in how it 
seeks to recover the money owed, including the fair consideration of any repayment 
proposals he puts forward, bearing in mind the unique circumstances that apply here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman