DRN-3551866
The complaint
Mr S complains Admiral Financial Services Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr S is represented by a third party; but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as if they were 
made by him directly.
What happened
Admiral approved Mr S for a £10,000 loan in March 2021. The term of the loan was 60 
months; with repayments of approximately £210. The interest rate on the loan was 9.2%.
Mr S complains Admiral irresponsibly lent to him. He says Admiral did not complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan. Mr S says had it done so, 
Admiral wouldve seen his debts were higher than those declared (including a recent 
£25,000 loan being taken out); that he was already indebted and that he was spending a 
significant proportion of his income on gambling.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ss complaint be upheld. They felt the checks Admiral 
had completed were reasonable. Furthermore, they also felt that even though further checks 
werent necessary, even if they had been completed then they would still likely have shown 
Mr S could afford the repayments.
Mr S remained unhappy with this outcome. He maintained the loan was unaffordable. He 
argued even if Admiral did not complete further checks; it shouldve seen he could not afford 
the repayments. This is because the checks which Admiral did complete showed Mr S had 
taken out a £5,000 loan recently; and was also utilising a £5,000 overdraft. Mr S also 
highlighted he had brought other complaints to our service about loans taken out at a similar 
time which had been upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that this complaint should not be upheld. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I can assure him Ive considered all of the information 
he has provided to our service. I appreciate Mr S may have other complaints with our service 
which have been upheld; but as Im sure he is aware we consider each case on its own 
individual merits. And it doesnt automatically follow that this complaint should be upheld 
because Mr S has had others upheld. Ive considered the facts and circumstances of this 
particular case and Im satisfied Mr Ss complaint should not be upheld. 
Mr S is aware of our services approach to irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
complaints; so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail here and will simply say 
Ive considered whether Admiral completed reasonable and proportionate checks before 
making a fair decision to lend. Ive also considered whether Admiral have acted unfairly in 
any other way.
In this instance Admiral completed a search of Mr Ss credit file and conducted third party 
checks on his current account to understand his likely salary. The credit search which 
Admiral completed demonstrated that Mr S had a non-mortgage related debt of 
approximately £10,000. This was effectively made up from a loan for £5,000 taken out in the 
months prior to this application and Mr Ss overdrafts.
Admiral used this information  along with that of his visible mortgage  to calculate Mr Ss 
likely monthly outgoings. It also used a third-party tool to cross-check Mr Ss income 
declaration - around £35,000 per year. It says based on this information the repayments of 
£210 per month appeared affordable. Admiral noted that Mr Ss credit file was well 
maintained with no negative markers appearing on it.
Mr S says Admiral shouldve completed further checks because the information seen by 
Admiral showed he was not in a position to take on further credit. He also argues even if 
Admiral did not complete further checks it oughtve realised the loan was unaffordable to him 
based on the information it saw.
Ive considered Mr Ss first argument and Im not persuaded by it. In this instance Im 
satisfied the checks completed did not warrant further information to be gathered. Admiral is 
entitled to rely on the information that it is provided. Admiral has provided our service a copy 
of the credit report and application data it received in relation to Mr Ss loan. There is no 
record of the £25,000 loan Mr S had recently taken out; and Ive not been provided with any 
information which suggests Mr S informed Admiral of this loan either. 
The information which Admiral did see did show Mr S had a debt of around £10,000. Bearing 
in mind Mr Ss income, I dont consider this demonstrates that Mr S was excessively 
indebted, or that this ought to have prompted further checks. The unsecured loan; whilst 
recently taken out; was being repaid in line with expectations and the repayment was 
factored into Admirals calculations.
The overdraft which Mr S says showed he was over indebted was around £5,000. Whilst I 
accept Admiral saw this, Im not persuaded that an applicant utilising their overdraft alone 
would in itself mean further checks should be completed. Im also mindful that the amount 
being provided here by Admiral was sufficient to have cleared Mr Ss overdraft in its entirety 
(should he have wish to); and thereby had the potential to reduce the amount Mr S would 
have to pay going forwards.
Considering this information; Im satisfied that the checks Admiral completed in this instance 
were proportionate. They gave Admiral sufficient insight into Mr Ss circumstances to enable 
it to make a reasonable decision to lend. The information it saw did not suggest Mr S was 
taking out large amounts or that he was indeed gambling large amounts of money. And Ive 
not seen evidence Mr S made Admiral aware of the above. So in the absence of contrary 
information Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to rely on the information it saw. Im also 
satisfied that the calculations it completed demonstrated that the loan was likely affordable to 
Mr S.
Turning to Mr Ss second argument. He says even if Admiral didnt complete further checks 
then the information it had available still demonstrated the loan was likely unaffordable to 
him. Mr S says the fact he had taken a recent unsecured loan; and he had not reduced his 
overdraft showed he was in financial hardship. 
Similar to above; Im not satisfied the information which Admiral had demonstrated it made 
an unfair decision to lend. Admiral has provided information to our service that show the 
calculations it used to determine if Mr S could afford the repayments. It took into 
consideration Mr Ss largest credit commitments including his mortgage and his unsecured loan. The checks it completed demonstrated that Mr Ss income was in line with his declared 
level; and that this left him with sufficient disposable income to meet this repayment. Im 
satisfied these calculations were reasonable and sufficient (along with what Ive outlined 
above) for Admiral to make a fair decision to lend.
Mr Ss main argument in support of the loan being unaffordable is the fact he had around 
£5,000 in overdrafts and this amount had not reduced over a long period of time. As Ive 
highlighted above the loan amount Mr S was receiving was sufficient to cover his existing 
overdraft; meaning he couldve cleared this had he so wished too. I also note that the 
interest rate of this loan was around 9% which would likely have been preferable to the 
interest rate he was receiving on his overdrafts. So, it is arguable that he wouldve been in a 
better position as a result of this loan, making the loan more affordable to him. 
Mr Ss initial complaint also included the fact he was spending significant amounts of money 
on gambling. Ive looked at the information which Mr S has provided and I can see he was 
indeed spending large amounts on gambling transactions. However Im also satisfied there 
was not sufficient information on file to suggest Admiral ought reasonably have been aware 
of this issue. I note that Mr Ss salary was paid into a joint account; and that the majority of 
the gambling transactions took place from a third account which was in his sole name. Mr S 
has provided our service with all of these statements and these show that Mr S transfers 
funds into this third sole account via a second sole account under the headings of 
expenses. So it seems to me that Mr Ss actions meant that it would have taken a level of 
forensic analysis, which I dont think is reasonable, for Admiral to have discovered Mr Ss 
gambling. And considering these steps I dont think it is reasonable to have expected 
Admiral to have discovered these transactions and thereby take them into account when 
considering Mr Ss affordability.
So taking all of the above into account Im satisfied Admirals decision to lend was 
reasonable in this instance. The checks it completed were proportionate, and demonstrated 
that Mr S was likely able afford the repayments. Im not satisfied the information it did have 
demonstrated Mr S was in financial hardship; and shouldnt have been lent too. I cant see 
Mr S made Admiral aware of wider financial commitments he had; and as such I dont think 
its unfair that Admiral did not take them into account when calculating its affordability 
assessment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Admiral Financial Services 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman