DRN-1121289
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax. 
What happened
In 1995, Halifax sold Mr and Mrs P a monthly premium PPI policy to protect their mortgage 
repayments if Mr P was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 1995, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So, where Mr and Mrs P say the PPI was sold in a meeting, Halifax 
hasnt been able to confirm if that was the case. 
I note Mr and Mrs P argue that they didnt know the PPI had been added. Unfortunately, I 
dont have a copy of, for example, a signed PPI application form. But Halifaxs internal 
records from the time indicate it asked  and Mr and Mrs P answered  a series of questions 
to determine Mr Ps eligibility for the policy. So, it looks as though they were at least aware of 
it. And Ive nothing to show they werent told it was optional. 
Taking all of that into account, I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
Halifax has considered the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. 
That meant Halifax needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless 
of what steps it took, I think the PPI was right for them in any case. 
For example, from what Mr and Mrs P have told us about their circumstances, and Mr Ps in 
particular as the person insured, it seems he was eligible for the cover. And I cant see that 
Mr P was affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited cover for.
I gather Mr P was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his public sector employer for a time. 
But the PPI benefits were considerable and potentially paid out (on top of any existing work 
benefits) for up to 12 months for each successful claim. They covered him for unemployment 
too. The PPI would also have allowed them to use Mr Ps work benefits to put towards 
covering their other living expenses if he wasnt working. Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs P told us about Mr P being in stable employment and 
always being able to manage his repayments. But, while his financial situation may have 
seemed relatively secure at the time, there was no guarantee that would continue to be the 
case in future or that the PPI might not prove to be useful if things changed.
Considering Mr and Mrs P were in a long-term financial commitment that was secured 
against their home, I think it likely theyd have valued the extra protection the PPI provided. 
Further, Ive no reason to think the PPI premium wasnt affordable for Mr and Mrs P. And the 
policy was flexible in that Mr and Mrs P could have cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if 
they felt it was no longer suitable for them.
Halifax also needed to give Mr and Mrs P enough information about the PPI to allow them to 
decide for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information it gave 
them could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI 
was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
decision to take it. I think theyd still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an affordable 
cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs P have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman