DRN-3057620
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage that started in 1994.  
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. This is because Santander recommended 
the policy to Mrs and Mr C, but I dont think it was suitable for them. I say this because, a 
couple of years before the policy started, Mr C experienced a serious medical event for 
which he received treatment and ongoing drug therapy. He was off work for two months. In 
such circumstances, the terms of the PPI policy meant he wouldnt have been able to claim 
for any time off sick if it was related to this medical condition.
Mr C has explained in detail his circumstances; and this is backed up by correspondence, 
from Santander to Mrs and Mr C, at the time. This shows that Santander became aware of 
the medical condition  an application for a joint life insurance policy, for Mrs and Mr C, was 
turned down because of Mr Cs health. However, Santander appears not to have then 
advised Mrs and Mr C that the PPI policy would similarly be of limited use to them. 
I think its unlikely Mrs and Mr C would have accepted the PPI if theyd ben made aware of 
the policy exclusion that was likely to affect them. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs and Mr C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mrs and Mr C the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.*
If Mrs and Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mrs and Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs and Mr C compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman