DRN-3104162
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd 
unfairly avoided its landlords insurance policy and refused to pay a claim following a fire at 
its property. 
 
Mr N, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf.   
What happened
T took out a landlords insurance policy with China Taiping through a broker in October 
2019. 
 
In July 2020, T claimed on its policy for damage caused by a fire. China Taiping ultimately 
avoided the policy as they said that when buying the policy, one of Ts directors had
deliberately or recklessly not disclosed that their previous business had been subject to a 
Members Voluntary Liquidation (MVL) which was concluded in September 2018. China 
Taiping said that if T had disclosed this information, they wouldnt have offered the policy. 
Therefore, China Taiping avoided the policy (which means cancelled from the start as 
though it had never existed) and refused to pay the claim. 
 
T complained to China Taiping. It said it didnt realise it needed to declare the MVL because 
the question only asked about current voluntary winding up procedures. T also said that an 
MVL was a way of winding up a solvent company and so didnt think it would have any 
impact on China Taipings decision to offer a policy. 
 
China Taping said the question was clear and that T had answered no to both of the 
following questions: 
 
In respect of all statements detailed below, You (or, in the case of a partnership 
or limited company, any one partner or director so authorised) confirm that You 
or any of Your partners or directors either personally or in connection with any 
business which You/they have been involved have never:- 
 
a) been declared bankrupt or are the subject of any current bankruptcy 
proceedings or any voluntary or mandatory insolvency or winding up 
procedures? 
 
 
h) been a director or partner in any business which is or has been the subject of 
a winding up or administration order, receivership proceedings, or a Company 
Voluntary Arrangement? 
 
China Taiping said T had also had the opportunity to review the same information in the 
Statement of Fact and hadnt corrected it. 
 
As China Taiping refused to reinstate the policy, T brought its complaint to us. It said it had 
lost money as its claim for contents and business interruption insurance hadnt been paid. 
In addition, it was also concerned that it was now difficult to find insurance elsewhere due to 
having the avoidance on its record. 
 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
the question asked was clear, but thought T should have known it needed to tell China 
Taiping about the MVL and therefore didnt think T had provided the correct information 
when buying its policy. He was satisfied that if T had provided the correct information, China 
Taiping wouldnt have provided the policy, so he thought it was fair and reasonable for 
China Taiping to avoid Ts policy and refuse to pay its claim. 
 
T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It questioned how it should be 
expected to know that winding up a solvent company would be something that an insurer 
wanted to know about. T said the questions indicated that China Taiping only wanted to 
know about current winding up procedures or past insolvencies; and if a question wasnt 
clear then it couldnt have made a misrepresentation. It said other insurers only wanted to 
know about previous insolvent companies and didnt think the underwriting criteria China 
Taiping provided showed that it wouldnt have provided the policy.   
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 September 2021. In that decision I 
said: 
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
The relevant legislation to be considered here is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). Under 
the Act, T had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk when buying its policy. And for 
China Taiping to take any action, it needs to show that T didnt do that and that it made 
whats known as a qualifying breach. To demonstrate a qualifying breach, China Taiping 
would need to show that if T had made a fair presentation of the risk, they would either 
have not offered T the policy or would have done so on different terms. 
 
The Act says: 
 
(3)A fair presentation of the risk is one 
(a)which makes the disclosure required by subsection (4), 
(b)which makes that disclosure in a manner which would be reasonably clear 
and accessible to a prudent insurer, and 
(c)in which every material representation as to a matter of fact is substantially 
correct, and every material representation as to a matter of expectation or belief 
is made in good faith. 
(4)The disclosure required is as follows, except as provided in subsection (5) 
(a)disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to 
know, or 
(b)failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a 
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose 
of revealing those material circumstances. 
 
I therefore need to consider whether T failed to disclose a material circumstance that it 
knew or ought to have known. 
 
Its not in dispute that T knew about the MVL, but China Taiping havent done enough to 
persuade me that a previous voluntary winding up of a solvent company is a material 
circumstance, given that their questions and underwriting criteria dont indicate that this is 
something they would want to know about. 
 While the Act doesnt make reference to a consideration of the questions asked, the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that a way of ensuring a commercial 
customer knows what they need to disclose is to have asked clear questions about any 
matter material to the insurance undertaking. I dont think the question asked by China 
Taiping indicated that this was something they wanted to know about. 
 
I think part a) of the question is asking about any previous bankruptcies or current insolvency 
or winding up procedures. China Taiping said the question asks the policyholder to confirm 
that it, or its directors, had never been the subject of any voluntary winding up procedures, 
but I dont think the question is structured in a way that suggests this. I think the structure 
of the question is such that, have never been made bankrupt is a separate part of 
the question to or are the subject of any current bankruptcy proceedings or any voluntary 
or mandatory insolvency or winding up procedures?. 
 
The directors previous business hadnt been declared bankrupt and wasnt the subject of 
any current bankruptcy proceedings or any voluntary or mandatory winding up procedures. 
It had been the subject of a voluntary winding up procedure in the past, but this was not 
current at the time of applying for this insurance policy. 
 
Ive also considered the question at h), but I havent seen anything to suggest that an MVL 
could reasonably be considered a winding up or administration order, receivership  
proceeding, or a Company Voluntary Arrangement. 
 
As Im not persuaded that the MVL was a material circumstance, I dont think T failed to 
make a fair presentation of the risk. 
 
Moreover, even if China Taiping had persuaded me it was a material circumstance and that 
T had failed to make a fair presentation of the risk, they havent persuaded me that they 
would have done anything differently if theyd known about it. 
 
As underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive, Im not going to disclose China Taipings 
underwriting criteria in this decision. However, it appears to me that the criteria relate to an 
adverse credit history and not to a policyholder who has previously wound down a solvent  
business. I recognise that a senior underwriter for China Taiping has said that they wouldnt 
have agreed to provide cover based on the information they had, but this is not clear to me 
from the criteria and the decision seems to have been based on limited information about the 
MVL. Therefore, even if the MVL was a material circumstance, Im not persuaded that T 
made a qualifying breach. 
 
Also, even if China Taiping provided further information to indicate that an MVL was a 
material circumstance and that T had made a qualifying breach, I also have to consider 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In this case, I dont think it would 
produce a fair and reasonable outcome for China Taiping to avoid the policy when I dont 
think T would reasonably have known it was a material circumstance. 
 
I also dont think China Taiping did enough to collect the information it needed after 
discovering the MVL. I can see that China Taiping asked T for further information about the 
financial circumstances of the MVL and, while T didnt answer the questions directly, it did 
copy in its accountant to provide any further information China Taiping required. In response 
to this, China Taiping made the decision to avoid the policy. I dont think this was fair and 
reasonable given the impact deciding to avoid the policy would have on T. I think China 
Taiping should have done more, either to let T know that it needed the questions answering 
so it could consider whether it would have provided cover, or to have contacted the 
accountant themselves. 
 For the reasons set out above, I dont think China Taiping should have avoided Ts policy. 
As such, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for China Taiping to 
reinstate Ts policy and consider Ts claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. China Taiping should also remove any record of the avoidance from any internal 
or external records or databases. 
 
If the claim is paid, T will have been without money it should have had, so I need to think 
about whether I should award interest to any settlement. T said it took out a Bounce Back 
loan (BBL) for £50,000 in May 2020 prior to the fire. It said that if its claim had been paid on 
time, it would have paid back £47,500 of that loan, which was the amount outstanding at 
that time. 
 
I understand that a BBL has an interest rate of 0% per annum for the first 12 months, and 
2.5% per annum thereafter. Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable for China Taiping to 
pay interest on the first £47,500 of any claim settlement at 2.5% simple from 13 May 2021 
(the 12 month anniversary on the loan) until the date it makes payment on the claim. If the 
settlement amount is more than £47,500, China Taiping should pay interest on this 
additional amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the claim until the date it 
makes payment on the claim. 
 
T said that it has been charged more for its new policy due to having a cancellation on its 
record. I do think its likely that having a policy avoided has increased the cost of Ts new 
policy and I think its fair and reasonable that China Taiping compensates T for this. As its 
likely that the claim itself would also increase the cost of a future policy, I would invite T to 
provide me with evidence from its new insurer to demonstrate the increase in premium 
caused solely by having to declare a cancelled policy. 
 
I understand that T paid a solicitor to try to resolve things prior to bringing its complaint to 
our service. However, Im not going to make an award for these costs as it was Ts choice to 
engage a solicitor and it was always open to it to bring a complaint to our service free of 
charge. 
 
Ts director has also indicated that they were caused significant distress by having the 
policy avoided. While I can appreciate that the directors would have suffered distress, the 
eligible complainant in this case is T, which is a limited company, and I cant make an award 
for distress to a limited company. I do, however, accept that T has been inconvenienced by 
the policy being unfairly avoided and by having to try to get the avoidance removed and find 
a new policy. I think £500 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for China Taiping 
to pay T for this inconvenience. 
 
T accepted my provisional decision. It said it had paid about £1,000 more for a policy with 
the cancellation on its record but wasnt able to provide any further evidence on this by the 
required date. T confirmed it was in agreement with me proceeding to a final decision 
without submitting further evidence on the increased cost of the policy.  
 
China Taiping didnt accept my provisional decision. It said the word any was key to the 
question and it should be split as follows:  
been declared bankrupt or /////// are the subject of any current bankruptcy 
proceeding or /////// any voluntary or mandatory insolvency or winding up 
procedures 
 
China Taiping said that any reasonable person who read the question on the Statement of 
Fact would be prudent to disclose the information, particularly where they find it ambiguous. 
 China Taiping resubmitted an extract from their underwriting criteria. They said this clearly 
shows that compliance with the Statement of Fact is a consideration when offering a policy 
and the underwriter would have been following the underwriting criteria if they had declined 
to offer cover.  
 
China Taiping said that, if the Statement of Fact had been answered correctly, it would have 
put them on notice to ask for further information, though they couldnt be sure whether this 
would have resulted in an underwriter asking further questions. In any event, China Taiping 
said they had requested further information about the MVL which hadnt been forthcoming.  
 
Before I reached a final decision, our investigator let both T and China Taiping know that I 
had reconsidered the amount of interest that I thought would be fair and reasonable in the 
event that China Taiping paid Ts claim. I said that if China Taiping pays Ts claim in this 
case it would be fair and reasonable to award interest on any amount over £47,500 for the 
contents claim from the date of the claim. For any business interruption payment, interest 
should start from one month after the claim was made and then accrue on a monthly basis 
for the previous months losses  ie interest on the first months losses would be payable 
from one month after the claim date, interest on the first and second months losses would 
be payable from two months after the claim date and so on until the date of payment. T 
accepted this and China Taiping didnt respond by the allocated date.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about how China Taiping say the question on the Statement of Fact should 
be read. However, phrased in this way the relevant part of the question reads: have 
never any voluntary or mandatory insolvency or winding up procedures which I dont 
think makes as much linguistic sense as: or are the subject of any current bankruptcy 
proceedings or any voluntary or mandatory insolvency or winding up procedures?. 
 
I think the way China Taiping phrased this question indicated that they only wanted to know 
details of any adverse financial history or current mandatory or voluntary winding up 
procedures. So, Im still not persuaded that this was a material circumstance that China 
Taiping wanted to know about. 
Moreover, even if I was persuaded it was a material circumstance, China Taipings further 
comments dont persuade me that T made a qualifying breach under The Insurance Act.
China Taipings underwriting guide does say that compliance with the Statement of Fact is a 
consideration when underwriting. However, what China Taiping needs to show is that they 
would have either not offered cover or offered it on different terms if T had let them know 
about its director's previous MVL. China Taiping did ask for further information when they 
discovered the MVL, which suggests they might have asked for further information if T had 
disclosed the MVL when buying the policy, but China Taiping has said that its impossible to 
know whether an underwriter would have asked further questions at the time if it had been 
disclosed. On the basis of the evidence put forward, Im not persuaded that China Taiping 
most likely would have acted differently if Ts director had disclosed the MVL. 
As set out in my provisional decision, I also have to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. I still dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome in this 
particular case for China Taipings avoidance of Ts policy to stand, when I dont think T 
could reasonably have could reasonably have known that one of its directors being involved 
previously in an MVL was something China Taiping wanted to know about.  
I also still dont think China Taiping acted in the right way when the information they had 
asked for wasnt forthcoming. Given the implication of having a policy avoided, I think China 
Taiping should have let T know that they werent going to contact the accountant on its 
behalf and that if T didnt provide the required information then the policy would be avoided.  
Putting things right 
For the reasons above, and in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is for China Taiping to reinstate Ts policy, 
remove any record of the avoidance and reconsider the claim in line with its terms and 
conditions.
 
If after reinstating the policy and reconsidering the claim China Taiping pays Ts claim, T will 
have been without money it should have had. Therefore, it will be fair and reasonable for 
China Taiping to pay interest on the first £47,500 of the claim at 2.5% from 13 May 2021 
until the date it makes payment. For any amount over this, China Taiping should pay T 
interest at 8% simple per year, with interest on any additional amount for contents being  
calculated from the date of claim to the date of settlement; and interest on any additional 
amount for business interruption being calculated from one month after the claim was made 
accruing on a monthly basis for the previous months losses (ie interest on the first months 
losses would be payable from one month after the claim date, interest on the first and 
second months losses would be payable from two months after the claim date and so 
on) until the date of payment. 
  
I think its likely that it would have cost T more to buy a policy with an avoidance on its 
record. However, Im also mindful that T had submitted a claim following a fire which is also 
likely to have impacted the cost of its policy. I havent seen enough to fairly decide the 
amount by which the avoidance increased Ts premium, so Im not going to require China 
Taiping to compensate T for this.
  
I remain satisfied that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount for China Taiping to pay T to 
compensate for the unnecessary inconvenience they caused.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to:
Reinstate Ts policy and reconsider the claim in line with its terms and conditions.
 
Pay interest on the first £47,500 of any claim settlement at 2.5% simple from 13 May 
2021 until the date it makes payment on the claim. If the settlement amount is more 
than £47,500, China Taiping should pay interest on this additional amount at a rate   
of 8% simple per year: interest on the contents element from the date of the claim to 
the date it makes payment on the claim; and interest on the business interruption 
element from one month after the claim was made, accruing on a monthly basis for 
the previous months losses (ie interest on the first months losses would be payable 
from one month after the claim date, interest on the first and second months losses 
would be payable from two months after the claim date and so on) until the date of 
payment. 
Remove any records of the avoidance from any internal or external records or 
databases. 
Pay T £500 for its inconvenience.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman