DRN-3895568
The complaint
A company Ill call P complains that Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) blocked its accounts, 
meaning P couldnt make payments or deposits.
P is represented by its director, Mr P.
What happened
Mr P told our service that Cynergy blocked Ps accounts on 23 July 2021. He said he made 
numerous phone calls to Cynergy and filed a formal complaint on 29 July 2021. He said 
Cynergy gave P two months notice of its intention to close Ps accounts, and that it released 
Ps account balance, but retained the balance in his personal account. Because P is a 
separate legal entity to Mr P, Ill only address Ps complaint in this decision, and Ill issue a 
separate decision in connection with Mr Ps personal accounts.
Cynergy issued its final response to Ps complaint on 18 August 2021. It said it understood 
its actions had inconvenienced P, but said it had acted in line with its policy and the terms 
and conditions of the account, so it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought Ps complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Ps complaint. She said Cynergy had acted in line with its internal processes and the 
terms of Ps account, so she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P didnt accept what our 
investigator said, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of P, I would need to be satisfied that Cynergy acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
Cynergy acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Ps accounts. 
And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between Cynergy and P.
I appreciate Mr P is frustrated that Cynergy didnt explained its reasons in full, that he thinks 
he was lied to, and that he feels strongly about Ps complaint. But, under the terms and 
conditions of the account, Cynergy doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say 
it did anything wrong by not giving P this information when it complained. And, having 
investigated Cynergys rationale myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the account and 
complete the investigation in the manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it 
treated P unfairly.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account.
The terms and conditions of Ps account  with which both Cynergy and P had to comply  
say that Cynergy could close the account by giving 2 months notice.
While I cant disclose the reasons for Cynergys decision to P, I can say that Ive considered 
the evidence Ive been provided, and Im satisfied Cynergy acted in accordance with its 
terms and conditions when it closed Ps account. 
I recognise that Ps account remained blocked during the notice period, but for the reasons 
Ive set out above, Im satisfied Cynergy was entitled to block the account and keep it 
blocked during the notice period. And I can see that the account balance was released to P, 
so it has access to its funds.
While I dont doubt Cynergys actions caused P problems and disrupted its commercial 
activities, I wont ask it to compensate P because I dont consider it did anything it wasnt 
entitled to do, or treated P unfairly, considering all of the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman