DRN-3753643
The complaint
Mr J says Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited acted unreasonably in avoiding his 
motor insurance policy on the basis that when buying it he misrepresented the facts. 
What happened
Mr J bought the policy in March 2021 and made a claim on it in February 2022 after an 
accident. Watfords engineer noted that Mr Js car had been modified. Watford said if hed 
declared the modifications it wouldnt have provided cover. It also said hed misrepresented 
the value of the car. Mr J said he didnt know the car was modified and that its value was set 
by the comparison website hed used. Watford avoided Mr Js policy, declined the claim and 
retained the premium, as it thought his misrepresentation was reckless. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Js complaint. She thought hed been asked a clear 
question about modifications and had said the car wasnt modified, which was incorrect. She 
thought Watford had shown that it wouldnt have offered him cover had it known the facts. In 
her opinion, a reasonable consumer would have been aware of the modifications and would 
have checked whether they were acceptable. She didnt think Mr J had taken reasonable 
care to avoid making a misrepresentation about the modifications and the value of the car. 
And she thought it was reasonable for Watford to conclude hed acted recklessly. 
Mr J asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIDRA
The law thats applicable in cases of misrepresentation is the Consumer Insurance 
Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA). Under CIDRA an insurer has to show 
that there was a misrepresentation and that the consumer failed to take reasonable care to 
avoid making one. The insurer then has to show that the misrepresentation made a 
difference to its decision to offer cover to the consumer  either at all, or on the terms it did. 
If so, the misrepresentation is termed a qualifying one  which under CIDRA allows the 
insurer to take action, depending on whether it can show that the consumer acted 
deliberately or recklessly, or just carelessly, in answering as they did.  
Was there a misrepresentation
I agree that Mr J made a misrepresentation, as I think he was asked a clear question about 
whether the car had been modified (Has your car been modified in any way?) to which he 
gave the wrong answer. So the next question is whether Mr J took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
Did Mr J take reasonable care not to misrepresent?
The standard of care under CIDRA is that of a reasonable consumer. Mr J has said 
consistently that he didnt make any modifications to the car and that he wasnt aware it had 
been modified. Watfords engineer says one of the modifications was that the cars front 
windows were heavily tinted. I think thats unusual and easy to spot. And it isnt something a 
manufacturer would do, because such tinting to front windows is an offence. The engineer 
listed several other modifications (darkened headlamps to the rear and the front of the car, 
wind deflectors, rear-door glass vents, and changes to the bumper / spoiler) as well. 
It appears that Mr J assumed these were all standard fittings on the car, so it seems he 
didnt discuss the cars features with the seller. And he mustnt have compared it to the 
standard specification for the model in question. Watford found a photo of the car that was 
used when it was advertised for sale just before Mr J bought it, with a list of its features. 
There doesnt appear to be tinting to the front windows and theres no mention of any 
modifications to the car. Although that might suggest that Mr J made the modifications, it 
isnt possible to say when the photo was taken, so I dont think its conclusive either way.
Unfortunately, Mr J has been unable to contact the seller for comment since the 
modifications were pointed out by the engineer. 
  
I think its fair to say that most consumers who are looking to buy a prestigious, high-
performance car usually do so only after looking at similar cars. So theyre aware (or should 
be aware) if a particular car may have been modified. As a consumer has a duty to take 
reasonable care, I think its for a potential purchaser to make the relevant enquiries of a 
seller. I think any reasonable consumer would do so, but it seems Mr J didnt.
Even if it didnt strike Mr J to check about modifications before he bought the car, I think a 
reasonable consumer would have thought about it when asked a direct question about 
whether the car had been modified. Mr J could have asked the seller then - or checked the 
cars standard specification - before answering. And if he was in doubt, the drop-down boxes 
on the comparison website Mr J used would have clarified what counted as a modification.  
Watford also noted that the value of Mr Js car was quoted at £10,000. Mr J says he didnt 
enter that figure on the comparison website. But I think he had a duty to check that the figure 
showing was correct. And when he got the policy documents shortly afterwards, Mr J was 
asked to check that all the details shown in them were correct, so he had a duty to do that 
too. But it seems Mr J didnt check, as the documents showed that the car was worth 
£10,000 (when hed paid almost £40,000 for it) yet he didnt call to correct the error. 
Was there a qualifying misrepresentation?
As I dont think Mr J took reasonable care to avoid misrepresenting the facts to Watford, I 
have to consider whether his misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. Watford 
has provided an extract from its underwriting criteria to show that it wouldnt have offered 
cover to Mr J at all based on the cars tinted windows alone. Another extract shows that it  
wouldnt have agreed to provide cover due to the changes to the light clusters either. I think 
Watford has shown that the misrepresentation made a difference to its decision to provide 
cover to Mr J, so I think it was a qualifying one under CIDRAs provisions, which means 
Watford was entitled to take action. 
Classification of the misrepresentation and remedies
Watford decided that Mr J had acted recklessly. That means it thought his actions showed 
he didnt care whether the information he gave it was true  and that he didnt care whether 
the information was important or relevant to Watford either. Ive considered whether it would have been more appropriate for Watford to conclude that Mr Js misrepresentation was 
merely careless. But taking everything into account, I think it was reasonable for it to decide 
that it was reckless. So not only was it entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim, but 
also to retain Mr Js premium. 
Conclusion
I know Mr J will be very unhappy with my decision, as hes facing a significant financial loss 
and he has also lost a treasured vehicle. But as I cant say that Watford acted unreasonably, 
I cant uphold Mr Js complaint.              
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman