DRN-3153439
The complaint
Mr M complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited imposed a late payment fee and placed an 
adverse entry of his credit reference file when his payment was late due to its online 
payment system having failed.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
MotoNovo has accepted that its payment system was down when Mr M sought to make a 
payment. However, it disputes that the alternative method of making payment by phone was 
not working. It says its phone lines were operational and Mr M could have made payment by 
this altermatic means. However, I note that it told Mr M that its call waiting times were 
elongated.
When Mr M was able to speak with a call handler he was given the wrong bank details and 
this was rectified the following day. The business upheld the complaint and offered Mr M 
£100 compensation but declined to amend his credit file. MotoNovo said it reflected his late 
payment and noted he hadnt made payment when he could. Mr M took the view that he 
would defer any payment until his complaint had been considered by MotoNovo.
While I note that MotoNovo says that its phone lines were operational at the time, I have no 
reason to doubt Mr Ms testimony which is credible and has been consistent. He says that he 
wasnt offered an automated payment option on the phone and he spent considerable time 
waiting for a response at his expense. And when he did get through he was given incorrect 
information. 
While it is possible Mr M could have done more to make his payment I have seen nothing 
that would indicate he was unwilling to pay. He had maintained regular payments for several 
years without a problem.  I believe the delayed payment arose from the IT failure and while 
payment may have been made a little earlier I dont believe that merits an adverse mark on 
Mr Ms credit file.
Putting things right
Mr Ms credit file should be amended.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to 
remove the £15 fee and the adverse mark placed on his credit file for April and May 2021. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman