DRN-3875032
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined their claim for storm 
damage.
Mr and Mrs J had buildings and contents insurance with QIC. The policy was in joint names 
but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr J.
What happened
Mr J claimed under his buildings insurance after tiles at one end of his home became loose 
after a storm. QIC instructed a surveyor to assess the damage. However, Mr J didnt think 
the surveyor properly assessed the damage because he said the claim wasnt storm 
damage, there was existing damage, and any referral to this service would be dismissed. Mr 
J also said the surveyor incorrectly reported that neighbouring properties werent damaged.
Mr J complained to QIC, but it maintained its position. So, Mr J brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought QIC had fairly relied on the 
surveyors report and photos of the damage to decline Mr Js claim, and its reasons for doing 
so were in line with the policy.
Mr J didnt agree. He said neighbouring properties were damaged like his, and he thought 
QIC had decided to decline his claim even before attending to look at the damage.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr J doesnt think QIC treated him fairly when it declined his claim for storm damage. He 
also thinks the surveyor just looked for reasons to decline because of comments made when 
the surveyor first attended.
QIC declined the claim, Due to the cause of damage being determined as gradual 
deterioration and wear and tear.
Looking at the policy, it states:
Storm
We will cover loss or damage caused by storm.
 We dont cover:
a. loss or damage caused by frost;
b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges unless 
your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause;
c. loss or damage to radio and television aerials or satellite dishes, and their fittings and 
masts; and
d. anything that happens gradually.
Properties are designed to withstand all but the most extreme weather conditions. 
Damage caused by normal weather conditions is not covered by this policy, as normal 
weather conditions should not cause damage to a well-maintained property.
My role then is to decide, based on the evidence, whether QIC declined Mr Js claim fairly, 
for the reason it gave and in line with the policy.
Theres no dispute that there were storm conditions at the time Mr J noticed the roof 
damage. And I havent seen anything to suggest that theres any dispute that storms can 
cause damage of that nature. So, my focus is on whether the storm was the only or main 
cause of the damage.
QIC provided a surveyors report which concluded the roof tiles dislodged mainly because of 
a gradual deterioration of the mortar and historical damage. Ive looked at the photos and I 
can see why the surveyor reached that conclusion. The mortar and cement bedding were 
cracked and the spores growing on the roof tiles can also be seen in the cracks and over the 
worn surfaces. This indicates that the damage was present for some time before the photos 
were taken. 
Mr J also provided photos showing close up images of the roof damage. Theres evidence of 
the roof dislodged in places, but his photos also show the same signs of historical damage. 
Based on the photos alone, Im satisfied there is sufficient evidence of wear and tear.
Ive considered the roofers quote for repairs, with a reference of storm damage. However, I 
cant fairly say its evidence that the storm was the main cause of damage, and theres no 
accompanying report commenting on the condition of the roof. I understand Mr J had roof 
repairs done seven years before, and his roof was in good condition then. I accept that. But I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect that the roof wouldve deteriorated over the 
subsequent years and wouldnt be in the same condition.
Ive noted Mr Js comments about QIC saying neighbouring houses didnt show any storm 
damage. He said the houses show similar damage to that seen on his roof. Its likely QIC 
commented on other houses simply to point out that there was no obvious indication of 
widespread damage. Regardless of that, I havent placed any weight on its comments. 
Thats because my decision is about Mr Js roof, and I can only consider the evidence 
relating directly to that damage.
That said, its worth noting that if other houses showed similar damage on the roof, and 
those houses were of a similar age, it suggests that the damage was more likely to be due to 
aging rather than each house being affected in exactly the same way by storm damage.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr J noticed the damage following the storm, or that the storm 
dislodged the tiles. But it doesnt mean the storm was the main cause. The evidence 
indicates that the tile bedding had deteriorated and, but for that deterioration, the storm 
wouldnt have dislodged the tiles.So, in the absence of any compelling evidence to directly contradict QICs field-surveyors 
report, I find that QIC fairly and reasonably declined Mr Js claim for the reason it gave and 
in line with the policy.
Ill turn, now, to Mr Js complaint that the surveyor made up his mind about the claim 
outcome before even starting an inspection. I have no reason to doubt Mr Js recollection of 
this comment, or the subsequent comment that a complaint to this service would be 
dismissed. I agree that neither of those comments wouldve been helpful, and I can see why 
Mr J feels his claim wasn't considered fairly and without bias. However, I cant see any 
evidence that the comments caused Mr J any loss. QIC considered his claim and Ive 
already said its reasons for doing so are supported by the evidence available. 
Looking just at Mr Js experience, its clear that he disregarded any comment about whether 
this service might dismiss his complaint. Therefore, I dont think anything the surveyor said 
influenced Mr Js actions such that he experienced a financial loss.
Overall, the evidence persuades me that QIC declined Mr Js claim fairly and in line with the 
policy. I wont be asking QIC to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman