DRN-3123131
The complaint
Ms As unhappy she was unable to transfer funds out of her investment due to an embargo 
imposed by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
In November 2019 HSBC wrote to Ms A advising her they planned to move her Selected 
Investment Fund (SIF) over to a Global Investment Centre (GIC) account in February 2020, 
and that whilst the transfer took place theyd need to apply some restrictions to her account. 
Ms A contacted HSBC in February 2020 asking them to stop the transfer of her account, 
requesting them to close her investment and transfer the fund valuation she could see online 
to her savings account. But HSBC explained shed missed the deadline to close her 
investment before the transfer process had commenced. 
HSBC said to Ms A they could still take an instruction from her to close her investment, 
however it wouldnt be actioned until completion of the transfer to GIC, after which her 
investment would then be sold immediately and shed receive its valuation on the day.
In March 2020 Ms A complained to HSBC, unhappy shed lost approximately £8,000 on the 
value of her investment since having tried to withdraw it the previous month. Ms A asked 
HSBC to compensate her for her loss, she says was due to their weak process in managing 
the transfer to GIC, and the embargo that was imposed whilst it took place. She was also 
unhappy her relationship manager hadnt contacted her to advise her.
HSBC didnt uphold Ms As complaint saying they were unable to action her request due to 
her having missed the deadline to opt out of the transfer, prior to restrictions coming into 
force. They also said any fees deducted from Ms As investment related to the management 
of the fund and did not cover ongoing investment advice.
Ms A remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service, blaming HSBC for 
their failure to opt out of placing an embargo on investment accounts despite being aware of 
the impact on the markets caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Ms A also says HSBC failed to 
provide her the options available to her that wouldve allowed her to mitigate her losses.
One of our investigators looked into things but thought HSBC had acted fairly and 
reasonably by proceeding with the embargo as planned. He said HSBC had given Ms A 
warning of their proposed actions 90 days in advance of the embargo taking effect, as well 
as sending reminders both 60 days and 30 days prior, so he was satisfied theyd done 
enough.
Ms A disagreed with our investigator saying shed not been contacted by her premier 
account manager prior to the embargo and that she felt HSBC had used it to avoid massive 
withdrawals at their end caused by the pandemic. She said HSBC shouldve lifted the 
embargo as it was illegal and unnecessary to be placed within the stressed market and as a 
result, theyd not treated customers fairly.
Our investigator said he felt it was reasonable for HSBC to proceed with the embargo in 
order to deliver the migration theyd promised their customers, and that theyd given Ms A 
both the awareness and ample opportunity to sell out before the embargo commenced, if 
she was concerned about her investment. 
As Ms A remained unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Ms A, Im not upholding 
her complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's important to say its not for me to tell HSBC how to run their business, rather its for me to 
decide if I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably when doing so.
I understand Ms As concerns the embargo placed on investments by HSBC was done so 
with the intention of avoiding massive withdrawals of funds. But Im satisfied the migration of 
her SIF account to a GIC account was planned for well in advance of either HSBC or Ms A 
having an awareness of the volatility the financial markets were to suffer in February 2020.
HSBC were fully entitled to undertake actions such as the migration of accounts like this in 
order to modernise or update their systems. It is something all businesses need to do from 
time to time and its understandable such actions will have some impact on the service 
offered whilst changes are implemented.
Im satisfied HSBC gave Ms A considerable notice of the planned migration of her account 
and importantly of the restrictions that would be placed upon it for a 20-day period whilst the 
transfer was completed.
HSBC wrote to Ms A in November 2019, December 2019 and January 2020 clearly advising 
her that from 3:30pm on 4 February 2020 theyd be unable to action any instruction to buy, 
sell or switch fund shares in her SIF account until the transfer to GIC was completed. The 
letters went on to explain this was because from that date they wouldve already started the 
transfer and wouldnt be able to stop that process.
Its clear Ms A received at least one of these letters, she referred to it during a telephone 
conversation with HSBC, so Im satisfied its reasonable she shouldve been aware of the 
deadline theyd set out. But Ms A didnt contact HSBC until 7 February 2020, three days 
after the deadline had passed, so I dont think HSBC acted unfairly by not being able to 
process her request.
Its unfortunate that the migration coincided with a time during which the markets were 
volatile, however Im satisfied that one had no effect on the other. The communication from 
HSBC shows the transfer had been planned in advance and I cant say they were under any 
obligation to cancel the migration from starting, having had already set everything in place. 
In any case, by the time Ms A first contacted them, the migration had already started, and 
HSBC had already advised theyd be unable to stop the process.
Ms A feels strongly her premier account manager failed to get in touch to advise her what to 
do prior to the embargo, but HSBC have explained their account managers dont provide 
ongoing investment advice, and for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied HSBC set 
out Ms As options to her clearly, and on multiple occasions prior to the embargo coming into 
force.In summary, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in taking the actions they did 
and I dont think they need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman