DRN-3414222
The complaint
Mr T complains that the loans he had from Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) were 
unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr T had four loans from Cash4unow between January 2014 and April 2014 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 9 Jan 2014 £200 2m £146.00 28 Feb 2014 29 Jan 2014
2 12 Feb 2014 £400 14d £520.00 26 Feb 2014 On time
3 4 Mar 2014 £500 2m £365.00 25 Apr 2014 28 Apr 2014
4 30 Apr 2014 £350 4m £153.12 28 Aug 2014 Defaulted
Mr T says his credit file would have shown recent missed payments and defaults, along with 
a number of short-term loans and a county court judgement (CCJ). He says Cash4unow did 
not ask for proof of his income or details of his expenditure. Mr T says if it had asked for his 
bank statements it would have seen he had a gambling problem and that it was irresponsible 
to lend to him.
Cash4unow originally responded to say that the complaint was out of our jurisdiction as it 
was brought too late. However, an ombudsman has now decided that, in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, it is within the jurisdiction of our service and, therefore, we 
can consider its merits.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider the 
available information or the pattern of lending indicated the repayments were unsustainable 
for Mr T.
Mr T requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might indicate a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
Im satisfied that Cash4unows checks went far enough for this loan because:
These were Mr Ts first loans with Cash4unow;
Cash4unow was entitled to rely on information provided by Mr T at this stage;
Mr Ts self-declared disposable income was over £900;
There was nothing in the available information to show further checks were required.
As Cash4unows checks showed the repayments were affordable to Mr T Im satisfied that 
Cash4unow made a fair lending decision for loans 1 and 2.
Loan 3As this was Mr Ts third short-term loan with limited breaks between lending and the amount 
borrowed was increasing, I consider Cash4unows checks should have gone further. Indeed 
I note that Mr T applied for £600, but was only approved for £500. As this pattern of 
borrowing could have indicated Mr T was becoming dependent on short-term lending, I think 
proportionate checks should have included finding out whether Mr T had any other 
outstanding short-term loans at the time.
I have asked Cash4unow for the results of any credit checks, but it says that due to the time 
that has passed it no longer has that information.
Mr T was also unable to provide any further information, so I cannot reasonably find that 
proportionate checks would have indicated loan 3 was unaffordable.
Loan 4
When Mr T applied for loan 4, it was for less money than either of loans 2 or 3, and the 
repayments were also significantly lower. Once again I find that Cash4unows checks were 
proportionate to the circumstances of this loan and that there was no available information 
that should have indicated the loan was unaffordable.
I acknowledge Mr T did have a CCJ in March 2014, but I cannot be sure this would have 
appeared in any checks carried out for loan 4 as this was relatively shortly afterwards.
In summary, although I dont find Cash4unows checks went far enough for every loan, I 
havent seen any evidence to show that proportionate checks would have indicated the 
lending was unsustainable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman