DRN-3236385
The complaint
Mr T complains that AJ Bell Management Limited passed on information about a corporate 
action that was out of date. As a result, he feels he missed out on an investment opportunity 
and experienced significant distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr T had a shareholding in The Rank Group plc held in an ISA with AJ Bell. On the 
afternoon of 5 November 2020 Rank made an offer for subscription. Although AJ Bell 
received notice of the offer on 5 November 2020, it didnt communicate the details to 
account holders until 12 November 2020. AJ Bell sent a secure message alerting them to a 
corporate action on their account. The detail of message explained that the offer was being 
made through a third party, which account holders needed to contact directly. 
Mr T received the message and promptly opened an account with the third party to take 
advantage of the offer. However, having done so he discovered that the offer had closed a 
week earlier, on the same day as the announcement, 5 November 2020, as it was a limited 
subscription.
Mr T complained to AJ Bell that it had taken too long to inform him of the offer. AJ Bell didnt 
uphold the complaint as it felt it had taken reasonable steps to inform him, in accordance 
with the terms of the account. It said it too had been notified on 5 November 2020 and, as 
the offer was fully subscribed the same day, it had not been given sufficient notice itself. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. In brief, she agreed that AJ Bell had used reasonable endeavours, as set out in its 
terms, to communicate the offer and noted that no deadline or suggestion of urgency had 
been attached to the message AJ Bell received notifying it of the offer. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators view. He noted that AJ Bell had taken a week to notify 
account holders of the offer and this would have given it time to check the situation with the 
third party and whether it was still available. He highlighted that since making his complaint 
AJ Bell had changed its process and no longer communicated corporate actions and felt that 
this showed AJ Bell recognised that passing on offers like this was unfair. He stressed the 
disappointment and trouble the matter had cause him.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it will have been very disappointing for Mr T to have discovered that the offer 
was no longer available. When he received the notification from AJ Bell, he promptly opened 
an account with the third party to take advantage of the offer. It was only once hed gone 
through this process that he discovered the offer was in fact no longer available, as full 
subscription had been reached a week earlier, on the same day the offer was made. 
Clearly in all the circumstances, it wouldve been better if the information about the offer had 
not been passed on to him on 12 November 2020  it would have saved him the bother of 
opening an account with the third party and prevented any expectation of successful 
subscription being set. But, nevertheless, I dont think AJ Bell acted incorrectly or unfairly in 
passing on the information as it did. Five days to communicate the offer does, on the face of 
it in this case, seem like quite a long time. But it must be remembered that AJ Bell wouldve 
dealing with many such notices and they would not all have such urgency attached to them. 
So, I think it was reasonable that it was generally taking around five working days to pass 
the information on. 
When AJ Bell received notification of the offer there was no indication of any specific 
deadline for it because there wasnt one. The length of time for which the offer would be 
available was dependent upon how quickly it became fully subscribed. Ive noted what Mr T 
has said about the five days taken to pass on the information giving time for AJ Bell to have 
made enquiries with the third party to see if the offer was still open. But I dont think there 
was any responsibility on AJ Bell to check the status of information it was passing on. I think 
doing so for each corporate action would have been unduly onerous. 
Mr T has indicated that AJ Bell has changed its process since he made his complaint and no 
longer passes on such information. While I can see Mr Ts point, I dont think this represents 
an admission by AJ Bell that what it was doing before was wrong. I think its more likely 
recognition that the process of passing on information has, unavoidably, the potential to 
create problems. So, its more effective to leave it to individual account holders to do their 
own research about actions that may affect their holdings.    
I note that Mr T feels that hes incurred a significant loss as a result of the time taken for AJ 
Bell to pass on the information, as he lost the opportunity to buy shares at a beneficial price 
and to take advantage of the subsequent increase in price. But even if AJ Bell had 
communicated the offer sooner, I think its highly likely it wouldve been fully subscribed by 
the time Mr T was able to act. It was fully subscribed within hours of being announced.
In summary, I do understand Mr Ts disappointment with the matter, but ultimately, I think its 
a result of an unfortunate set of circumstances rather than the fault of AJ Bell. 
As an aside  and I say this solely in the hope of offering some comfort to Mr T  Id highlight 
that the offer price was ultimately 90p per share, a little higher than the market price at the 
time of 86.3p. I note the Rank share price did subsequently rise quite significantly over the 
following months. But at 90p a share, the profit potentially available to Mr T (assuming hed 
have been able to obtain the number of shares he hoped to, which may not have been the 
case even if hed applied it time) was not as high as hes indicated when bringing his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman