DRN-2308907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund them 
transactions they say they didnt make or authorise.
What happened
On 1 August 2019, Mr S says that six transactions totalling just under £170 were made from 
his joint account using his bank card without his consent.
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute.
Mr S says he discovered the disputed transactions when he was checking his account 
statements. And reported them to the bank on 25 September 2019. Mr S has explained that 
he always keeps his bank card inside his wallet in his pocket. Hes memorised his PIN, 
doesnt have it written down anywhere and hasnt disclosed his PIN to anyone. He believes 
his card was cloned and wants BOS to refund the transactions. Mr S says he was left short 
of money and caused a great deal of stress due to the fraud on his account.
  
BOS investigated Mr and Mrs Ss fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed 
transactions to them. It said Mr S had most likely either made the transactions himself or 
allowed someone else to make them. In summary the bank said:
Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
there were no failed PIN attempts when the transactions took place
Mr S was still in possession of his bank card when he reported the fraud
there was no plausible explanation form how someone else was able to take Mr Ss 
bank card, guess Mr Ss PIN and use the card to make the transactions
the transactions were made at several different merchants where Mr S also made 
undisputed transactions 
the transactions were relatively small and looked like everyday spending
when Mr S reported the disputed transactions to the bank, it had offered to cancel his 
bank card to prevent further fraud, but Mr S declined, and said hed sort things out
Mr S hadnt offered a plausible explanation for how someone was able to obtain his 
bank card and PIN
Unhappy with this response Mr S and Mrs brought their complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into their complaint. He said the evidence showed Mr Ss genuine card 
and PIN had been used to make the transactions. So, he didnt think the card was cloned. 
And he concluded it was most likely Mr S had made the transactions. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Mr and Mrs S and BOS have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr and 
Mrs S that Ive read the file, including Mr Ss comments and evidence
.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Having reviewed the banks technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ss card details were 
used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, the 
regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable BOS to hold 
Mr S liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that Mr S consented to the transactions being made or whether he is the 
victim of fraud as hes alleged.
 
Mr S is adamant that he didnt make the transactions and that no-one he lives with couldve 
done so either. And Ive also taken on board what hes told us about how he thinks his card 
was cloned at a shop. But having considered the available information, I dont think Mr Ss 
card was cloned. I say this because the banks technical evidence shows it was Mr Ss 
genuine card and PIN that was used to make the disputed transactions.
 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mr S did 
consent to the transactions he is disputing. I say this because:
BOSs technical records show the transactions were made using Mr Ss genuine card 
and PIN
Mr S has explained that his card was always in his possession and hed never 
disclosed his PIN to anyone else. And he still had his card when he reported the 
fraud to the bank. And no one visited him at home during this period. So, theres no 
plausible explanation for how an unknown third party would be able to gain 
possession of Mr Ss card 
Mr S has explained hed memorised his PIN, so I think its extremely unlikely that a 
fraudster would take Mr Ss card, be able guess his PIN correctly, spend on the card 
then return the card to Mr S without him noticing 
the disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster 
would try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit 
from the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the 
card is cancelled. But this didnt happen 
when Mr S called the bank to report the alleged fraud the bank offered to cancel 
Mr Ss card, but he told the bank he didnt want this to happen. Whilst I can 
appreciate Mr S might have thought this would cause him inconvenience, I find it odd 
that he wouldnt want to protect his money  if as he believed a fraudster was 
accessing his account. I think a reasonable course of action to take would have been 
to cancel the card and prevent further fraudulent spending
Mr S told the bank that hed never visited one of the shops (where the highest 
transactions were made), however he has also provided a copy of a credit note from 
the same shop, which suggests to me Mr S has visited the premises and made 
purchases
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In my view 
the most likely explanation is that Mr S made the disputed transactions himself.  So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask BOS to refund Mr and Mrs S the disputed 
transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman