DRN-3783438
The complaint
Mr S has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly reduced the settlement it offered for 
storm damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted QIC to make a claim for storm damage to a flat roof, ridge tiles and internal 
damage to his home. QIC sent a surveyor to view the damage. Following this, Mr S was 
offered a cash settlement for the damage. Mr S queried some of the details of the settlement 
and was then offered an increased amount as a cash settlement. Mr S queried the 
settlement again. QIC reviewed the claim and said the ridge tiles wouldnt be covered as part 
of the settlement and reduced the cash settlement offered to an amount significantly less 
than the previous two offers it had made.
When Mr S complained, QIC said the damage to the ridge tiles was the result of an issue 
with the mortar. It said this had resulted in it revising the whole claim in order to reflect 
repair costs to the resultant and internal damages only, which it would cover under the 
accidental damage part of the policy. It offered £1,953.83, less the £350 excess and said it 
would also pay VAT if a receipt was provided.
So, Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it 
wasnt in dispute there was a storm and the evidence provided by Mr Ss surveyor was more 
persuasive and showed the storm was the main cause of the damage. She said QIC should 
settle the claim and pay £200 compensation for the impact on Mr S.
QIC didnt agree with our investigator as it disagreed with Mr Ss surveyor. Our investigator 
issued a further view on the complaint still upholding it, including highlighting that QICs 
surveyor had decided the storm was the main cause of the damage. As QIC still didnt 
agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 19 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
It isnt in dispute that there were storm conditions around the time of the damage. Looking at 
weather conditions, there seem to have been windspeeds of around 70mph. I also think a 
storm could cause damage to a flat roof and ridge tiles and cause some internal damage. 
So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question. QIC has always said it would cover the internal 
damage. It said it wouldnt cover the ridge tiles. However, following some issues I raised with 
QIC about its decision on this, it has now agreed to pay for the damage to the ridge tiles. 
This is because, having reviewed the case again, it is now of the view that the ridge tiles 
were dislodged by the loose felt on the flat roof rather than an issue with the mortar. I think 
that is fair.
This leaves the issue of the flat roof and whether this should be covered. Ive read the final 
response to Mr Ss complaint. This referred to the ridge tiles and didnt explicitly comment on 
the flat roof. QIC said it was satisfied the damage wasnt covered due to exclusions for 
anything that happened gradually. QIC then said:
I am satisfied that the above exclusions apply to this claim as the ridge tiles de-bonding 
from the roof due to mortar breakdown indicates wear and tear to the roof over a significant 
period of time, which has merely been highlighted by the storm winds. Therefore, I am of the 
opinion that the cause of the damage was the gradual deterioration present at the property 
and not any storm winds.
When QIC provided its business file to this service, it summarised the claim and said it had 
offered settlement for the flat roof under the accidental damage part of the policy. It said this 
formed part of the cash settlement. However, it later explained to this service that the flat 
roof wasnt covered because of issues with the roof bonding. It said no bitumen had been 
applied to the flat roof. I queried this with QIC because this seemed inconsistent with other 
evidence it had provided. QIC then said there was evidence of bitumen around the edge of 
the roof, but not across the decking. It also provided the scope of works on which it had 
based the claim settlement. This didnt include the flat roof.
Ive thought about this carefully. QIC told Mr S it was declining part of the claim because the 
ridge tiles had been de-bonded. QIC has now agreed to cover the ridge tiles. So, it cant now 
decline any of the claim on that basis. That is the only reason it gave Mr S for declining the 
claim and when QIC provided information to this service, it said the flat roof was covered as 
part of the claim.
QIC has now said it isnt offering a settlement for the flat roof. Its reasons seem to fall within 
the exclusion for poor workmanship. It hasnt previously relied on this exclusion and, given 
everything that has happened on this claim, I currently think it cant fairly do so now. QIC has 
had multiple opportunities to assess the claim, explain to Mr S what was and wasnt covered 
and to offer an appropriate settlement. However, it failed to do so. As a result, I currently 
intend to say that QIC must settle the claim in full.
Mr S was offered a cash settlement for the claim, as QIC said it was unable to carry out the 
work. I therefore currently intend to require QIC to pay Mr S a settlement based on the 
highest amount it offered to settle the claim. This was £5682.20. Im mindful there are likely 
to have been increases in costs since the quotes were obtained. So, I currently intend to say 
that QIC should pay £6,000 to allow for this. I also intend to say QIC should pay interest on 
the claim settlement due to Mr S losing use of that money. If Mr S later provides QIC with an 
invoice for the works that shows VAT was payable, QIC must also pay the VAT element.
Ive also thought about compensation. I think this claim has been poorly and inconsistently 
handled. QIC built up Mr Ss expectations about how this claim would be settled and then at 
a later stage, having first increased the amount offered, reduced the amount it was willing to 
pay. QIC also didnt clearly explain why it was declining the claim and seemed unclear about 
what it was and wasnt covering. Mr S has also explained his concerns about the damage to 
his home and the impact this was having on him and his family. As a result, I currently intend to say that QIC should pay £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 16 November 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr S agreed with my decision.
QIC agreed to pay £400 compensation. However, it requested that the issue of the flat roof 
be re-assessed. It quoted my provisional decision where I said QIC has had multiple 
opportunities to assess the claim and said it had done this. It said the attending surveyor 
had accepted the claim but its in-house surveyor had overturned the decision due to the lack 
of bitumen on the roof. It was therefore satisfied that the claim was assessed and further 
reviews had been undertaken throughout the process. It remained of the opinion there was 
no cover for the flat roof.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered the points made by QIC, but this doesnt 
change my view. 
My provisional decision should be read as a whole, but to put the part of it that QIC quoted 
back in its immediate context of the whole sentence, I said: QIC has had multiple 
opportunities to assess the claim, explain to Mr S what was and wasnt covered and to offer 
an appropriate settlement. Im aware of QICs assessments of the claim, which differed over 
time. But, regardless of what it considered internally, it didnt communicate that to Mr S and, 
in my view, also didnt seek to rely on an appropriate exclusion to decline the claim for the 
flat roof. 
The exclusion it relied on to decline the claim was for gradual deterioration, specifically to the 
ridge tiles. QIC now accepts the ridge tiles should be covered. I havent seen evidence that 
persuades me this was the correct exclusion to rely on for the flat roof. The issues QIC 
described about the flat roof appear to be poor workmanship. It hasnt previously sought to 
rely on this exclusion and, as I explained, I dont think it can fairly do so now, given the 
circumstances of this claim and how it was dealt with overall. As a result, I remain of the 
view that QIC must settle the claim in full.
I still think it is reasonable for QIC to pay £6,000 to settle the claim, plus interest, and for it to 
pay the VAT element if Mr S provides evidence of this at a later stage. It should also pay 
£400 compensation.
Putting things right
QIC should pay £6,000 to settle the claim, plus interest. It should also pay the VAT element 
if Mr S later provides evidence of this. QIC should also pay £400 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:Pay Mr S a cash settlement of £6,000.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date on which the claim was first made 
to the date on which QIC makes the payment.
Pay the VAT payable on the claim settlement, subject to Mr S providing QIC with an 
invoice for the work showing this.
Pay £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman