DRN-2869133
The complaint
Ms S complains The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly increased her pet insurance policy premiums on renewal. She says the amount the 
premium was increased by was too high and shes unhappy NFU initially gave her the wrong 
information about why her premiums had increased. 
Any reference to NFU includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms S has a pet insurance policy as part of her home and lifestyle insurance cover with NFU 
which renews yearly. At the time of renewal in November 2020, it covered her three dogs.
In October 2020, NFU sent Ms S a renewal notice. This explained the premium for her home 
and lifestyle policy was increasing from approximately £1,774 to around £2,500 for the year. 
This was mainly because the cost of the pet insurance element of the policy had increased.
Ms S contacted NFU via the administrator in November 2020 to query why the premiums 
had increased so much. She was initially told it was because two of her dogs had reached 
eight years old. But when she confirmed that was incorrect, she was told it was because of 
previous claims on the policy. Later, Ms S says she was told it was because two of her dogs 
were now in a higher age bracket  between seven and nine years old  and shed made 
claims on the policy so shed lost her no claims discount. NFU said it hadnt made a mistake 
when setting the policy premium so it didnt agree to change it. 
Ms S raised a complaint with NFU as she didnt think the price increase was fair. And she 
was unhappy shed been given the wrong reason for it initially. Whilst NFU accepted it made 
an error in the information it gave her, it said the premium quoted was correct. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, Ms S asked our service to look into things. NFUs given us 
internal data and screenshots to show its calculated the renewal premium correctly based 
on the circumstances of Ms S dogs. Based on this information, our investigator didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. Ms S didnt agree with our investigators opinion so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see one of Ms Ss dogs has sadly passed away and I appreciate that mustve been 
very difficult for her. So I thank her for taking the time to give us the details she has. But Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint, I know Ms S will be very disappointed. Ill explain why. 
Insurers can choose what information to consider when deciding the price of a policy  and 
thats based on the risk theyre willing to take. Its not my role to tell NFU what factors it 
needs to consider, or what the right amount of premium to charge is based on those risks. 
I have however looked carefully at the evidence weve been given to make sure NFU has 
treated Ms S fairly and in line with its own criteria  and that its not treated her differently to 
other customers with the same circumstances. The information NFU uses to calculate 
premiums specifies the impact a pets age and previous claims would have on the price of 
the policy. Whilst I cant share this information as its commercially sensitive, Im satisfied it 
has set the price of Ms Ss policy in line with its own guidance  taking into account, 
amongst other things, the age of her dogs and the claims shed already made on the policy.
I appreciate Ms S has said she doesnt think the impact her dogs ages had on her premiums 
is fair because she doesnt think it was made clear to her in the policy terms. But in this 
case, I dont agree. Within the policy summary that NFU says was sent to her, under the 
section, Are there any restrictions on cover? I can see it tells policyholders the premium can 
vary depending on the animals age at the time of renewal. In any event, there are several 
risk factors insurers will take into account when setting the price of their policies. And I dont 
think NFU needs to tell its customers about each of them in the policy terms. 
Ms S says the amount the premium was increased by is unreasonable for customers. And 
shes pointed out she had no option but to renew her policy at the higher price as her dogs 
wouldnt have been covered elsewhere. But from what Ive seen of NFUs internal guides, I 
dont think it increased her premiums by as much as it couldve. And I think the fact that she 
has struggled to find insurance elsewhere is reflective of the higher risk NFU has agreed to 
take on  but at an increased price. 
I know Ms S thinks its unfair that NFU can choose to set its own price. And I can see why 
shed feel that way. But its not my role to direct it on how to set its prices based on the risk 
its willing to take or the profit it wants to make. Generally customers are able to choose 
between several different insurers based on the prices offered  and NFUs renewal notice 
gave Ms S the opportunity to do this. I appreciate Ms S has said she doesnt have the choice 
to insure her pets elsewhere but I dont think thats NFUs responsibility. 
NFU initially gave Ms S the wrong information about why her insurance premiums had 
increased  and I understand that wouldve been confusing for her. But from the internal 
notes, I can see it let her know the correct information very quickly, in a matter of days. And 
in any event, I dont think it increased the premiums incorrectly. So I dont think this means it 
should lower the price of her policy and overall I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 August 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman