DRN-4072397
The complaint
Mr B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim he made on his mechanical breakdown insurance policy.
Reference to Red Sands includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B held a mechanical breakdown insurance policy with Red Sands. When his car 
developed a fault with the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valve, he made a claim to Red 
Sands.
Red Sands declined Mr Bs claim. It said his policy didnt cover him for EGR valves.
Mr B wasnt happy with this and complained. He said his policy provided cover for exhaust 
valves.
Red Sands didnt change its stance, so, Mr B brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. He thought the policy provided cover for 
exhaust valves. He thought the EGR valve could reasonably be considered and exhaust 
valve, so thought Red Sands should pay the claim.
Red Sands disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It maintained that an 
exhaust valve is a separate and distinct part in its own right. It said Mr B was covered for 
exhaust valves but didnt consider the EGR valve to be one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute around the cause of the failure meeting the definition of a 
mechanical breakdown. The dispute centres around whether or not the part that 
failed is covered by the policy.
Mr Bs policy is a listed parts policy. This means only the parts listed are covered.
The policy says that Mr B is covered for exhaust valves
I accept Red Sands position that an exhaust valve is a part in itself and that it is 
distinct and separate to the EGR valve.
But Im not satisfied the policy makes that distinction clear enough. The function of 
the EGR valve is to control the flow of exhaust gas being recirculated to the engine. 
So while it may not be the exhaust valve, it is an exhaust valve. So, under the terms 
as written, I think the EGR valve can be reasonably considered to be covered by the 
policy. 
Therefore, I think Red Sands should pay Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Reimburse Mr B the cost of the repair to his EGR valve. 8% interest should be added 
to this payment. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr B paid for the work to 
be carried out, to the date Red Sands pays him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman