DRN-2905752
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the service that she received from Metro Bank PLC when she visited 
branch.  
What happened
The events under consideration here took place at a time when the Covid-19 global 
pandemic meant that businesses were implementing special policies to try to mitigate 
against unnecessary close contact and the possibility of potential viral transfer. It should be 
noted that Ms H is exempt from wearing a mask or face covering due to her disabilities and 
that she also suffers with mental health issues including anxiety.
Ms H visited a Metro Bank branch but was told upon arrival that there were no immediate 
appointments and that she would have to wait outside. Ms H did wait outside, but noticed 
other customers arriving and being allowed to wait inside the branch. Ms H questioned a 
branch staff member about this and was told that she could wait either inside or outside. Ms 
H went into branch but by this time had spent approximately 15 minutes outside in the rain. 
Ms H felt as though she had been discriminated against, so she raised a complaint.
Metro Bank looked at Ms Hs complaint. They acknowledged that Ms H should have been 
given the option of waiting inside in the first instance, and they apologised to Ms H for this 
and credited her account with £25 as compensation for the upset and inconvenience shed 
incurred.
Ms H didnt think that Metro Banks response to her complaint went far enough, so she 
referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They 
agreed that Ms H hadnt received the standard of service that she reasonably ought to have 
done, but they didnt feel that they could fairly conclude that Ms H had been discriminated 
against in any way. However, our investigator recommended that Metro Bank should make 
an additional payment of £25 to Ms H to further compensate her for what had taken place.
Metro Bank agreed to the recommendation put forward by our investigator, but Ms H 
remained dissatisfied. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Ms H to have been told to wait outside 
while other customers were being allowed to wait inside. Metro Bank asked the staff member 
whom Ms H spoke with about this, and they advised that because Ms H was visiting branch 
for help setting up her internet banking  which was a more complex request and one which 
couldnt be undertaken by counter staff  it was felt that Ms Hs wait for an appointment to 
receive this help would be longer than the waiting time of other customers who were visiting 
the branch for other reasons.
Because of this, the Metro Bank staff member felt that it would be beneficial for Ms H to have 
waited outside of the branch, and recalls advising Ms H that she would receive a phone call 
when her appointment time was approaching meaning that Ms H could continue with any 
other business that she might have nearby and didnt have to wait outside the branch in the 
rain. Indeed, Ms H has confirmed that it was only because her mobile phone battery had 
very low charge that she decided to wait directly outside of the branch.
The Metro Bank staff members reasoning here seems understandable to me, and while I 
agree that it would have been highly preferable that it should have been explained to Ms H 
that she could wait in the branch if she wanted to, I dont feel that the staff members actions 
constitute any form of discrimination against Ms H for any reason here  although I can 
understand from Ms Hs perspective why she might feel that this was the case.
In circumstances such as this, what this service would expect would be that Metro Bank 
would acknowledge that Ms H should have received better service when visiting the branch 
and that they would apologise to Ms H and make an offer of compensation to Ms H that is 
fair and reasonable in consideration of what took place.
I think that Metro Bank have done that here. In their response to Ms Hs complaint they did 
acknowledge that Ms H should have received better service and confirmed that the 
individual staff member had received appropriate feedback. Metro Bank also apologised to 
Ms H and credited her account with £25 and have agreed to further credit Ms Hs account 
with another £25, as compensation for the trouble and upset that Ms H incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But the 
combined total offer of £50 that Metro Bank have already agreed to here does feel fair to me, 
and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Ms H wanted, but it follows that I do feel that the 
payment of a further £25 to Ms H  following the credit of £25 that Ms H has already 
received  does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, and I will be 
upholding this complaint in Ms Hs favour on that basis.
I trust that Ms H will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
Putting things right
Metro Bank must make a further payment of £25 to Ms H  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman