DRN-4110687
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr M is represented in this complaint by a legal firm (Representative).
What happened
Mr M built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata 
Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr M had built up 6 years and 8 months pensionable service in the BSPS between 
September 2009 and May 2016. His aggregated annual scheme pension as at the date of 
leaving the scheme was £3,199.48. This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a 
prescribed amount (by September 2017 it had been revalued to £3,281.64).
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  
under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees of the BSPS 
to start to talk to members in detail. This led to the Time to Choose communication pack 
being issued to members, including Mr M, in October 2017. The pack provided more detail 
about the three options available and was intended to help members choose an option.
Mr M was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted another business 
(Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr M to IFM. A document titled Pension Review 
Questionnaire was used by IFM to record information about Mr M. Large sections of that 
document werent completed or left unanswered. From the sections that were completed, the 
following information about Mr M was recorded in October 2017:
He was aged 25, single and in good health. He didnt have anyone financially 
dependent on him;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£35,000. He didnt expect his employment status to change in the foreseeable future. 
He didnt have any assets or liabilities;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since June 
2017. The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 12% of his gross 
annual salary. The value of his DC plan at that time wasnt recorded. He was also on 
course to receive the full state pension at age 68; and
Through his employment he had a lump sum death in service benefit of six times his 
salary; 
IFMs adviser issued his suitability report on 6 November 2017. This explained to Mr M that 
he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits, as previously communicated by the 
BSPS. The BSPS offered Mr M a transfer value of £68,504.82 in respect of his pensionable 
service if he transferred to a PPP.
It was stated in the suitability report that Mr Ms primary objective regarding his safeguarded 
benefits was to retire earlier than the BSPS normal retirement age of 65, preferably around 
age 55 if his financial situation allowed it. There was also reference to Mr M preferring to 
draw flexible benefits, obtaining control over the value of his benefits and investment choice, 
and to maximise death benefits. It was noted that on a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) 
was lowest risk and 6 (Aggressive) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 3 
or Conservative risk. This was defined as, You understand that you need to take 
investment risk in order to be able to meet your long-term goals. On this basis, you are 
willing to take a risk with at least part of your available assets.
In reference to the critical yield, the adviser stated in the suitability report, I can confirm that 
our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown that annual investment returns of 
typically around 8.0% p.a. are required in order to match the benefits available at 65 from the 
current British Steel scheme.
IFMs adviser discounted the PPF and BSPS2 options and instead recommended that Mr M 
accept the transfer value of £68,504.82 and transfer to a PPP provided by Royal London for 
the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.The charges associated with the recommendation and deducted from the PPP fund value 
were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
2.9% (or £2,000)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.45% investment annual management charge (the product charge was noted as 
nil)
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr M to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
Mr M accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in Royal Londons Governed 
Portfolio 1 fund to align with Mr Ms Conservative risk profile. According to the suitability 
report, the investment objective of the Governed Portfolio 1 fund was, This portfolio aims to 
deliver above inflation growth in the value of the fund at retirement, whilst taking a level of 
risk consistent with a cautious risk attitude over a long time period. 
This complaint
During 2022, the Representative, on behalf of Mr M, complained to IFM about the suitability 
of the pension transfer advice it had given him in 2017. In its view, the pension transfer 
advice was unsuitable and had caused Mr M to suffer a financial loss.
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr M was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr M to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money when he retired. Overall, it was satisfied 
it had adhered to and considered relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr M 
with all the necessary information and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an 
informed decision. It didnt believe the alternative options of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met 
Mr Ms objectives. In its view, the pension transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and 
so was therefore suitable. 
In March 2023, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it 
be upheld because, in her view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mr Ms best interests compared to the alternative options. She thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on 
the basis that Mr M transferred to the BSPS2, retired at age 65 and would be a 20% income 
taxpayer in retirement. 
The Representative, on behalf of Mr M, accepted our investigators assessment but provided some additional comments about the proposed redress methodology. Our investigator 
considered those comments but wasnt persuaded to change her mind. IFM didnt provide a 
response to our investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been 
referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding on whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this decision isnt to repeat or address every single point 
raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
IFMs response to this complaint
IFM issued a final response letter to Mr M rejecting this complaint. But it didnt provide a 
response to our investigators assessment. Its unclear why. Regardless of its reasons, Ive 
decided that IFM has had sufficient time to respond and provide any additional comments or 
evidence for me to consider. Based on the available contemporaneous evidence, Im 
satisfied that I have sufficient information to be able to decide this complaint.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr M were set out in 
COBS 9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R.
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr M, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Ms situation when IFM advised him
The situation for Mr M wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as stated by the BSPS in its Time to Choose 
communication pack and repeated by IFM in its suitability report.
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
The PPF and BSPS2 options provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were 
differences between them for deferred members like Mr M. The PPF was designed to 
provide members with at least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was 
designed to provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried 
members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even 
allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married members or those who expected to draw benefits at or close to the 
scheme normal retirement age of 65. The BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary 
increases to the scheme pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to 
transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable. The benefits available under the 
PPP option would be dependent on the performance of underlying investments and annuity 
rates available at retirement  in other words, there were no guarantees regarding the level 
of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 
was likely to be the better option for Mr M based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. And so its my view that IFM shouldve 
only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Ms best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr M was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Ms safeguarded benefits, accounting for 6 years and 8 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset built up by that time. He 
didnt have any other assets which could be used to support his retirement income 
needs. I acknowledge that given his age and an investment time frame of at least 30 
years, it was likely Mr M would build up significant DC pension savings elsewhere by 
retirement, thereby reducing the reliance on his safeguarded benefits. But that didnt 
mean it was suitable to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time. In my 
view, Mr M had a limited capacity for loss at that point. So I think it was important not 
to expose the value of his safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating 
flexibility, control and maximisation of death benefits as a high priority at the expense 
of the primary income purpose when he couldnt access benefits for at least 30 years 
 unless there was a clearly suitable reason to do so;
According to the suitability report, the primary aim of the pension transfer was so that 
Mr M could retire early, from around age 55 if his financial situation allowed it. But he 
was then aged 25 and so couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest 
under the PPP. In my view, with such a time frame until pension benefits could be 
accessed, it made the case for a pension transfer at that time  for the sake of 
achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to justify. Notwithstanding this 
point, it seems that there was some uncertainty about Mr Ms planned retirement 
age. I say this because other sections in the suitability report indicated that the 
planned retirement age was 65. And in the document titled Pension Review 
Questionnaire a handwritten note stated Too young to say next to the section 
regarding Mr Ms planned retirement age. So its unclear where the target retirement 
age of 55 stated in the suitability report came from;
IFM stated that early retirement at age 55 was allowed under the PPF and BSPS 
subject to a reduction in the annual pension income. I think it portrayed the reduction 
as a penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the 
fact that the scheme would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, 
and to protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, based on what 
IFM said, its likely Mr M incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took 
benefits early under the BSPS2 (or PPF);IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr M so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
As noted above, the basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr M to retire immediately 
but instead at some indeterminate point in the future. The further away from 
retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish a realistic income figure and 
whether early retirement would in fact be possible. I think it wouldve been difficult to 
calculate an accurate income figure with the 30-year time frame to age 55. Theres 
no evidence that IFM recorded Mr Ms target retirement income need when it advised 
him. Without understanding his retirement income need, I cannot see how IFM was 
able to clearly demonstrate that transferring to a PPP at that time was in Mr Ms best 
interests;
Overall, its my view that IFM failed to obtain the necessary information relating to             
Mr Ms financial situation including his anticipated income and expenditure during 
retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer to a PPP to 
achieve his early retirement objective. It may well have been the case that Mr Ms 
retirement income need couldve been met by the BSPS2 but IFM failed to establish 
this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate why it was in 
Mr Ms best interests to transfer at that time to achieve his early retirement objective 
or whether he could in fact retire earlier than age 65;
In connection with Mr Ms investment knowledge and experience, IFM recorded that 
he had about as much understanding as the next person. I dont know what this 
vague description means or what it was based on. At the time of the advice Mr M 
didnt have any savings or investments that indicated he had experience of investing. 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me he understood the investment, 
inflation and longevity risks associated with his safeguarded benefits being 
transferred from the scheme to a PPP. Those risks wouldve been retained by the 
BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme  I cannot see that there was any 
compelling reason for Mr M to take on those risks at that time;
Had IFM advised Mr M to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 25; 
IFM recorded that Mr M preferred flexible income rather than guaranteed lifetime 
income. Its unclear why Mr M apparently didnt value guaranteed income. He had 
received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed retirement 
income from another source such as the BSPS2 before state pension age wouldve 
been valuable for an individual in his circumstances;
IFM recorded that Mr M was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. 
Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr M had any 
concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced 
investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision (built up by that time) in exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits 
many years in the future. Theres no real evidence that Mr M required the flexibility of 
irregular lump sums or variable income during retirement. But if he did require it, then 
any flexible needs couldve been met by his DC workplace pension. And hed also 
have access to tax-free cash under the BSPS2. This doesnt appear to have been 
adequately considered by IFM;
IFM recorded that Mr M was concerned about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits and so wanted control over his pension. But he appears to have been a 
largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no evidence he had 
experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of money. In my view,  
Mr M had limited knowledge and experience to enable him to understand the risks 
involved in transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr M was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. 
While I understand that he may have been concerned about this, I dont consider a 
transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr M wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr M was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question why, as 
an inexperienced and Conservative risk investor, he would accept the risk of 
transferring to a PPP which exposed his benefits to unlimited downside risks where 
the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This doesnt make sense to me; 
The suitability report mentioned that Mr M wanted to ensure any unused pension 
benefits be inherited by his family. While I understand that death benefits are 
important to consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr M about 
what was best for his own retirement provision. He was in good health at the time. 
Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income and lump sum needs would likely 
mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  
could be much smaller than expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mr M. 
Through his employment he had a generous lump sum death in service benefit. In 
addition, the value of his DC workplace pension plan would be payable as a tax-free 
lump sum. Notwithstanding these points, Mr M didnt have anyone financially 
dependent on him so its unclear why death benefits were important to him. These 
factors dont appear to have been adequately considered by IFM;
Its my view that Mr M had no health issues at the time IFM advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for people who werent 
financially dependent on him. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit at the cost of 
losing valuable benefit guarantees;
Theres no evidence that IFM obtained a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report 
based on Mr Ms specific circumstances in line with COBS 19.1.2R. Rather, in the 
suitability report, it inexplicably provided a generic critical yield figure. Its adviser 
stated, I can confirm that our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown 
that annual investment returns of typically around 8.0% p.a. are required in order to 
match the benefits available at 65 from the current British Steel scheme. This 
compared with a discount rate of 4.7% at age 65, as explained by our investigator in 
her assessment. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per 
year. Its my view that a required investment growth rate of 8.0% was incompatible with the discount rate, Mr Ms Conservative risk profile and the recommended 
Governed Portfolio 1 fund which was designed for investors with a cautious attitude 
to risk. I think these factors showed that it was likely Mr M would be financially worse 
off as a result of the pension transfer;
In addition, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr M was seeking to take 
benefits at age 55. If that was the case then I wouldve expected IFM to also 
calculate the critical yield figure at age 55 to enable Mr M to make an informed 
decision. But it didnt. It instead provided a generic growth rate of 8.0% at age 65. I 
think this was a material oversight;
The wording of the suitability report inappropriately downplayed the importance of the 
critical yield, stating that it will add no value to the process and the results of a 
TVAS are largely academic". I think IFMs approach to the transfer analysis was 
improper and prevented Mr M from making an informed decision; and
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Ms objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included a generic critical yield figure of 8.0% rather than the actual critical 
yield figure based on Mr Ms circumstances, downplayed the importance of the 
transfer analysis and was unclear regarding whether the advice was based on a 
target retirement age of 55 or 65. And it failed to provide sufficient information on the 
alternative options to achieve his stated objectives. I think these inadequacies in the 
suitability report led to Mr M making an uninformed decision to proceed with a 
pension transfer when this was not in his best interests.
Conclusion
In my view, Mr Ms objectives of achieving early retirement, income flexibility, flexible death 
benefits and control over investment choice were recorded in a generic way, suggesting that 
IFM used a standardised templated approach to pension transfer advice. Theres no 
evidence that the stated objectives were properly explored, scrutinised and challenged by 
IFM to ensure they were appropriate and achievable, particularly the desire to retire early.
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Ms 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
age, good state of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that              
Mr M couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr M gaining 
any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the 
BSPS2 at that time. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Properly advised, I think Mr M wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 and his benefits would 
now be preserved in that scheme. I acknowledge that it was recorded in the suitability report 
he wanted to retire at around age 55. However, he was about 30 years away from that target retirement age when IFM advised him. I think its fair to say that plans about retirement can 
change over such a long period of time. Im not persuaded that theres sufficient 
contemporaneous evidence that supports the position Mr M wouldve started taking his 
safeguarded benefits which involved taking a regular income at age 55. And Im not 
convinced it could be reasonably determined at the time that the PPF was the likely better 
option for Mr M. And so I think, given his age and the lack of clarity surrounding when he 
would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the 
time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As 
such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, 
compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65 for the reasons 
explained.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the Representative, on behalf of Mr M, and 
our service upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr M accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge him for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr M the balance. 
If Mr M accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr M can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman