DRN-2015890
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, initially  
taken out in September 2000 and later increased in January 2002. Miss D says Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
In 1992 Miss D arranged a mortgage with YBS. In September 2000 she then took out 
the PPI to cover her mortgage. The PPI was for unemployment cover only. If Miss D 
made a successful claim the policy would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to 12 
months. The policy was free for the first 6 months. 
Miss D later took out the further borrowing in January 2002 when she increased her PPI to 
cover her new payments.  
Miss D says she didnt want or need it the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Miss D disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
I see that YBS has already paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think YBS made it clear to Miss D each occasion that she didnt have to take out the PPI. 
I was her decision to go ahead and take it out.  
Miss D said the policy was initially sold at a meeting but from what Ive seen she may 
have applied for the policy by post, after she was sent details about taking out PPI by 
YBS.  That means its likely that YBS didnt make a recommendation about her taking out 
the PPI. But it still needed to ensure that she was given enough information so she could 
make an informed choice about taking out the cover. 
Ive seen the application form that was sent to Miss D for her to complete. In the covering 
letter it says that Miss D needed to return the completed application form in the envelope 
provided  and needed to do so by a specified date to get the 6 months free cover. If Miss 
D hadnt been interested in taking out PPI at that time, she could have simply ignored the 
letter. However, she went ahead with filling out her details, including the amount of her 
monthly mortgage payment, plus some additional cover she wished to take. She also 
signed the form twice  first to apply for the cover and again to authorise the monthly cost 
of the policy being added to her mortgage. 
Im also aware that this policy was taken almost 8 years after Miss D took out her mortgage. 
And, at this point, it doesnt appear that the sale of the policy was part of any additional 
borrowing on her mortgage. So I think from that its fair to say that Miss D would or ought to 
have known the PPI wasnt a requirement of her mortgage and that she didnt have to take 
out the policy if she didnt want to. 
Looking next at the additional borrowing she took in 2002, Miss D has told us she agreed to 
take it out at a meeting where she was made to feel she had to take it. I take from this that 
Miss D is suggesting she was put under a degree of pressure to take the cover. Ive seen 
that to get the additional cover Miss D filled out and signed another application form, 
specifying the new level of cover she wanted and that it would still be for unemployment 
only. 
Pressure is something thats very difficult to prove, especially given that both of these sales 
happened many years ago. And Ive kept in mind that being told that its a good idea to have 
PPI is not the same thing as being told it must be taken out. 
Based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think YBS made it clear on both occasions 
that the policy was optional. I think Miss D agreed to take it out, knowing she could refuse it 
if she didnt want it.
Its possible the information YBS gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ds circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful to her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Miss D off 
from taking out the cover. Ive also seen that Miss D appears to have made 3 successful 
claims on the policy during the time she had it.  
Ive also thought carefully about what Miss D has told us about not needing the cover. She 
says that, both when she first took out the cover and later increased it, she was in secure 
employment and was entitled to up to six months pay if she couldnt work, with her 
employer having the discretion to pay more. Whilst I appreciate Miss D had been 
employed in the same company for a number of years, this doesnt mean she wouldnt 
have a need for the unemployment cover. By having the PPI Miss D had the reassurance 
of knowing her monthly payments would be protected if she lost her job. It also meant that 
she wouldnt have to dig into other financial resources such as her savings, or rely on 
family members  something that always depends on circumstances at a given time, 
which can easily change. 
In response to our adjudicators findings, Miss D told us about several additional one-off 
payments she made help reduce her monthly mortgage payments. She also told us she 
repaid most of the additional borrowing shed taken out in 2002. Whilst the additional 
payments show that Miss D was able to put aside a good level of savings, Im afraid that 
doesnt necessarily mean the PPI was of no or little use to her. Having the cover meant 
she was in a position to pay down some of the mortgage in the knowledge that she would 
still be able to meet her monthly payments if she lost her job. And I think re-paying most of 
the additional borrowing as it was no longer needed is something that was up to Miss D to 
decide to do, given her circumstances at the time. Miss D also told us about receiving a significant sum of money by way of an inheritance. 
Given that this is something that happened after shed taken out both policies, it doesnt 
affect my findings. 
All of this means I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold to Miss D on either occasion.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman