DRN-3316284
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) gave him incorrect 
information when he contacted them about an international payment he tried to make.
What happened
Mr B is a customer of Halifax. He was due to fly abroad on holiday, and before his flight, he 
tried to make an international payment for around £300 using his mobile banking app. He 
says this payment needed to be made before his arrival.
Mr B says he checked his account and couldnt see that the payment had been made, so 
called Halifax and he says they told him to make the payment again as it hadnt gone 
through.
Mr B did and he says that a few moments later, he received two emails from Halifax, both 
confirming that an international payment of around £300 will be processed within the next 
few days.
Mr B says he contacted Halifax to stop the duplicate payment from going through, but he 
says Halifax were unable to. Mr B complained to Halifax and he says he was unhappy with 
their response and service he received. Mr B complained again and Halifax got back in 
touch, apologising for the service they provided when he complained. They also agreed that 
Mr B had been misinformed and given wrong information about his international payment 
enquiry. Mr B has since had the money from his second payment returned to him.
Halifax offered to credit Mr Bs account with £100 by way of apology, along with any costs, 
losses and expenses Mr B may have incurred. Halifax broke down the additional costs as: 
£10 towards Mr Bs call costs.
£21.40 for the difference from the initial amount sent and the money returned.
£3.38 in interest charges.
£5 for deprived funds, which they say is 8% gross interest per annum for the time Mr 
B didnt have his money (Halifax say they calculated the amount of gross interest to 
be £0.63, but they rounded it up to £5).
So, in total, Halifax offered to compensate Mr B with £139.78, which he declined.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He is unhappy as he says he only had limited 
funds in his account. And by a second payment leaving his account, he says his limited 
funds and spending money were further reduced while on holiday. He says his week away 
was miserable as it was on his mind to get this sorted with Halifax.
Our investigator looked to see if Halifax had done enough to put things right following their 
error. And he found that they didnt need to take any further action and thought their offer of 
compensation to Mr B was fair. He reached this conclusion as he found that Mr B had 
access to his overdraft funds, which lessened the impact of Halifaxs error, and he also 
considered Halifaxs actions to ensure Mr B wasnt at a financial loss.
Mr B didnt agree with the outcome the investigator reached. He says he didnt feel 
comfortable using his overdraft facility and that it shouldnt be used as an excuse for 
Halifaxs error. He feels an offer of compensation of around £300 is a fairer amount. And so 
this complaint has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator and Ill 
explain why below.
Mr B contacted Halifax as he says an international payment he tried to make wasnt 
appearing on his account. Halifax asked Mr B to make the payment again, but after making 
the second payment, Mr B says he received two messages saying both the transactions 
were successful.
Halifax acknowledge they made a mistake and provided Mr B with misinformation when they 
told him to make the second payment. They also apologised for the service hed received 
from them when complaining. As compensation, Halifax offered around £140 to Mr B, which 
he declined. As it isnt in dispute that Halifax has made a mistake, Ive gone on to consider 
whether this is a fair outcome.
The impact of Halifaxs mistake was that Mr B believes he was short of funds during his 
holiday. He says it made his time away on holiday miserable as it was on his mind to get this 
issue and refund sorted with Halifax.
Halifax has provided me with Mr Bs bank statements from around the time he made both 
international payments. I can see that as a result of the first payment going through 
successfully, it resulted in him being overdrawn on his account by about £45. Due to the 
second payment also being successfully processed, it resulted in him being further 
overdrawn in his account. I also note that whilst overdrawn, Mr B continued to spend on his 
account and was charged a daily interest fee, ranging from £0.12 to £0.41. This fee was 
charged until money was paid into Mr Bs account which brought his balance out of his 
overdraft facility.
Mr B has said he wasnt comfortable using his overdraft facility as he was worried it might 
impact his credit rating. But I can see the first payment Mr B made resulted in him going into 
his overdraft and that he likely intended to do so. I can also see from the bank statements 
provided that Mr B has utilised the overdraft facilities on his account on other occasions as 
well. So, I dont think it follows that Mr B was uncomfortable using the overdraft facilities on 
his account.
Halifaxs error was a one-off incident which was corrected within a fortnight. While I 
appreciate this was over a period when Mr B was on holiday and in need of his money, I 
think the impact on Mr B has been lessened somewhat with him having access to his 
overdraft funds and that he has used this facility in the past. I also think the impact on Mr B 
is lessened as he was already going to be overdrawn, due to the first international payment 
being taken, and due to his continued spending on his account.
Halifax has offered, among other things, to refund the interest charges Mr B incurred, as well 
as pay 8% gross interest per annum for the time Mr B was out of pocket (rounded up to £5).I also note the service Mr B received while complaining to Halifax. I agree Mr B received 
poor service, but following Halifaxs mistake, I think they acted reasonably in their attempt to 
put things right and I think their offer is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Given the circumstances, I think Halifaxs offer of compensation and their apology is a fair 
resolution.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £139.78 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay £139.78.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman