DRN-3858284
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim under their 
life and critical illness policy, after their son was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
What happened
To summarise, in 2017, Mrs E and Mr E took out life and critical illness cover with Aviva. The 
policy also provided some critical illness cover for the policy holders children. In 2018, Mrs E 
and Mr E were remortgaging, so reviewed their protection options with a financial advisor. 
They took out a new life and critical illness policy, this time with upgraded critical illness 
benefit and upgraded childrens benefit. 
Most unfortunately, in 2021, Mrs E and Mr Es son was diagnosed with diabetes. When Mrs 
E and Mr E contacted Aviva to claim on the policy, they were initially told the condition was 
covered. However, Aviva later contacted them to explain this had been an error and that 
their policy did not provide cover for their sons diabetes. 
Mrs E and Mr E complained. Aviva accepted it had made a mistake in initially giving Mrs E 
and Mr E wrong information. It apologised for the inconvenience and confusion caused and 
arranged a compensation payment of £300 as a token of its regret. However, it said its 
decision to decline the claim was correct, as the policy Mrs E and Mr E took out did not 
provide cover for children diagnosed with diabetes.  
Mrs E and Mr E came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
their complaint. She thought the compensation paid by Aviva was fair and didnt think Aviva 
had done anything wrong in not accepting Mrs E and Mr Es claim, as their policy did not 
provide childrens cover for diabetes. 
As Mrs E and Mr E remained unhappy, their complaint has come to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of Mr & Mrs Es sons diagnosis, which I acknowledge will have 
been a great shock for the family. My decision is in no way intended to minimise Mrs E and 
Mr Es experiences, or the significance of their sons condition. But having considered 
everything carefully, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be unwelcome 
news for Mrs E and Mr E. Ill explain further, focusing on the points and evidence I consider 
material to my decision. So if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of evidence, its not 
because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of the 
complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this. It simply reflects the more informal nature of 
our service. 
Customer service
I was pleased to see that Aviva promptly acknowledged its mistake in providing incorrect 
information to Mrs E and Mr E when they first sought to make a claim. This was very 
regrettable and Aviva reflected the distress and inconvenience caused by paying Mrs E and 
Mr E £300. I agree Aviva shouldve done better and think £300 fairly acknowledges what 
went wrong and its impact on Mrs E and Mr E.
Declined claim
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Additionally, they should comply with 
industry guidance, such as that produced by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). I dont 
find that Aviva has breached any rules or guidance. Ill explain why.
Critical illness policies are designed to provide cover for the most common types of serious 
illness or condition and most commonly occurring serious events. ABI guidance proposes 
model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies. Aside from including mandatory 
conditions - stroke, heart attack, and cancer - insurers are free to decide which illnesses they 
will and wont provide cover for.
Mrs E and Mr Es upgraded cover commenced on 12 October 2018 and is subject to policy 
terms dated May 2018. Having reviewed those terms carefully, I can see that diabetes is a 
covered condition for the policy holders. But Im satisfied its not one of the childrens critical 
illnesses covered. I can appreciate this may appear unfair, particularly as adults are covered. 
But again, insurers are free to decide which conditions they cover  both for main policy 
holders and for their children. So I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in declining Mrs E and Mr 
Es claim for their son.  
Sadly, the timeline in this complaint is most unfortunate. When Mrs E and Mr E took out their 
2017 and 2018 policies, Aviva didnt provide childrens cover for diabetes. However, in 2018 
Aviva reviewed its terms and extended cover for diabetes to children. Regrettably for Mrs E 
and Mr E, the revised policy terms went live on 14 October 2018, so this cover wasnt 
included in the policy they purchased. 
Mrs E and Mr E have questioned why revised terms dont apply to existing policy holders. 
This is because their policy was accepted and priced according to the May 2018 terms. And 
changes to policy terms dont apply retrospectively to holders of existing policies.
Mrs E and Mr E have also raised a number of additional points about the information they 
received at the time of sale. Theyve provided a comparison report their advisor produced 
which suggests diabetes in children was covered, along with a policy leaflet and terms for 
the later 2018 policy which did include cover for their sons condition.
Ive had a look at the website for the company which provides the critical illness comparison 
service used by Mrs E and Mr Es advisor. The company stresses that it will act in good faith 
when making information available on its system. But its clear from the terms that the 
advisor remains responsible for the accuracy of the information and advice given.
Mrs E and Mr E have questioned how they could have access to policy information that 
wasnt live at the time of their application and have questioned whether Aviva had released 
information about their forthcoming revised policy before it went live. In response to these 
questions, Aviva provided evidence of the press release, embargoed until 15 October 2018, 
announcing the new policy terms, as well as information and screen shots from their systems to show that the updated policy information wasnt available to view until that date. 
Aviva explained that the difference of one day from policy live to information announced and 
available to view is to allow for any system glitches to become apparent. Aviva has 
maintained the information in the advisors comparison report was wrong, and that this is 
something for which it is not responsible. Having reviewed the evidence, I find the 
explanation persuasive. So overall, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here.
Im afraid I cant explain the errors in the comparison report or comment on the leaflet or 
terms Mrs E and Mr E provided, which are for the later policy that wouldve covered their 
son. I must stress that these issues are about the sale of the policy by the advisor, not the 
claims decision Aviva made. So whilst I appreciate this is unsatisfactory for Mrs E and Mr E, 
for the purposes of this complaint against Aviva, these are not matters I can deal with any 
further. I acknowledge this will leave Mrs E and Mr E with unanswered questions. But in this 
complaint, I can only deal with complaint points about Aviva, principally, its decision to 
decline their claim.  
I appreciate Mrs E and Mr E find this extremely frustrating, but Aviva didnt do anything 
wrong in not providing diabetes cover for children under their policy, and consequently not 
accepting their claim. 
Finally, Im aware Aviva raised the possibility of a claim for hospital benefit for their son. I 
understand Mrs E and Mr E didnt wish to pursue this at the time. But if they now do, they 
should contact Aviva directly about a claim.
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint. Once again, Im sorry not to 
be able to give Mrs E and Mr E the news they were hoping for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman