DRN-4130983
The complaint
Mrs A complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited Tesco settled a third-party claim under 
her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A disputed a claim by another driver (the third-party) that Mrs A had damaged her car in 
an incident. Mrs A said that there had been no contact between her car and the third-partys 
car, the third-party hadnt suffered any injury, and the claim was fraudulent. So she was 
unhappy when Tesco accepted and paid the third-partys claim for car repairs and car hire 
and recorded the fault against her on insurance databases. 
Mrs A was also unhappy about Tescos service. She wanted Tesco to remove the fault claim 
against her and compensate her for the financial consequences shed suffered.
Tesco apologised for what they agreed was poor service in communicating with her. But 
they stood by their decision to settle the third-party claim for car repairs and car hire costs. 
They said that theyd taken Mrs As concerns into account but ultimately it was up to them 
how they decided to deal with the claim, and they had good reasons for settling it as they 
did. So they thought theyd acted in line with their policy. 
The investigator thought that Tesco had acted reasonably as regards their decision to settle 
but that they should compensate Mrs A £100 for their admitted poor service. Mrs A didnt 
agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we dont decide who is at fault for causing an accident, as this 
is a matter for the courts. Instead, we investigate whether an insurer has acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with their policy terms and conditions, when they decide who was 
responsible. 
Mrs As policy conditions on page 10 say that Tesco can carry out the defence or settlement 
of any claim under her policy. This means that Tesco have the final say on the matter and by 
choosing insurance with them Mrs A has agreed to this term. It isnt an unusual term and it's 
one that we consider to be fair. Having said this, we look at how Tesco have come to their 
decision. Have they considered all the evidence that has been provided to them and decided 
objectively?
Both Mrs A and the third-party gave different accounts as to how the incident happened, but 
Mrs A said their cars didnt come into contact at all. Mrs A felt that the third-party had made a 
fraudulent claim and she was the victim of a scam. She was unhappy that Tesco hadnt 
believed her. She didnt think that Tesco had considered her evidence properly and would 
rather pay the claim than do an effective investigation. She felt that Tescos admission of 
poor service suggested that their decision making about the claim was flawed too. 
Tesco accepted that their level of service didnt meet the standards normally expected from 
them and apologised. They said they mislabelled her file at first as the incident being Mrs As 
fault. However its clear from their file that Tesco did treat the claim as disputed and 
investigated it and didnt just treat it as fault. But the mislabelling meant that when, after their 
investigation, Tesco did decide it was Mrs As fault, they didnt tell Mrs A that as they thought 
she already knew. 
The investigator thought that Tesco should offer Mrs A compensation for this. He 
recommended £100 and Tesco agreed. Mrs A didnt think this was enough, but I think it is 
reasonable. It might have been good practice for Tesco to have told Mrs A beforehand that 
they intended to settle the claim, but under her policy Tesco can decide to settle as they 
think fit, without referring to Mrs A at all. 
And I dont think that Tescos mislabelling Mrs As file means that Tescos decision about 
settling her claim was flawed. Ive looked at Tescos file and I see that they considered both 
parties accounts of what happened. They also explained that they would investigate the 
later personal injury claim that the third-party had made.  
Despite their mislabelling the file as fault they did treat the claim as disputed by Mrs A and 
they did investigate it. They instructed an investigator to take a statement from Mrs A and 
inspected her car. Mrs A said there was no damage to her car and Tescos engineer 
inspection confirmed that. But as Tesco explained, this didnt mean there was no collision, 
as it was a minor impact at slow speed. 
Tesco also looked at photos from the scene showing that the third-party car had dark paint 
transfer marks on it, and a dent in it. Mrs A thought it was wrong of Tesco to presume that 
those marks came from her dark coloured car as they hadnt done a forensic paint 
investigation. However I dont think that level of inquiry is required of Tesco. In any event, 
they didnt rely on that matter alone, but on all the evidence as a whole. The third-partys 
insurers sent Tesco evidence of the third-partys damage claim. Tesco saw an engineers 
inspection report detailing the damage, and a repair estimate. Tesco checked that the 
damage the third-party claimed was consistent with the account of the incident, and that the 
repairs were reasonable. 
Tesco also looked at copies of screenshots of text messages between Mrs A and the third-
party after the incident . Mrs A said the incident scene was quiet and she was alone and felt 
outnumbered and intimidated by the third-party and her young women passengers. So she 
only gave her telephone number to the third-party so she could get away, and then only 
replied to the third-partys texts because she felt threatened. 
However Tesco looked at those messages. They noted that Mrs A didnt deny a collision or 
challenge the third-partys claim that Mrs A had caused the incident. The messages  
suggested that Mrs A was willing to pay for the damage or alternatively deal with it via her 
insurers. Tesco thought this implied that Mrs A accepted fault. There were no independent 
witnesses, and the police hadnt attended the scene to make a report. Tesco said that on all 
the evidence they had on the balance of probabilities, they could not successfully defend the 
third-party's claim in court and decided to settle it to prevent further costs. Thats a 
commercial decision and we wont generally interfere with that. Going to court is costly and 
time consuming and the result uncertain, so I dont think that Tesco acted unreasonably in 
deciding as they did.  
And so, while I can see that Mrs A is frustrated with Tescos decision and feels that it was 
unfair, I think that Tesco reviewed the evidence fairly and reasonably and did what they were 
required to do under her policy, so I dont require them to do any more in that regard.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint.
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited Tesco to do the following:
Pay Mrs A £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused her 
Tesco must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs A 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
