DRN-2792334
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC authorised her for a credit account which she 
feels was unaffordable for her at that time.
What happened
In March 2016, Miss L applied for a credit account with Barclays. Miss Ls application was 
approved, and Miss L was given a credit account with a credit limit of £3,500.
In September 2020, Miss L made a complaint to Barclays on the basis that they should 
never have approved her application for a credit account because the account had been 
unaffordable for her at that time.
Barclays looked at Miss Ls account. They explained that they had undertaken checks into 
Miss Ls financial position at the time that the credit card was applied for, including reviewing 
Miss Ls credit file, and that there was nothing in these checks that suggested that the credit 
account wouldnt be affordable for her at that time. So, Barclays didnt uphold Miss Ls 
complaint.
Miss L wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the checks that 
Barclays undertook didnt highlight anything that should have given Barclays cause to feel 
that the credit account wouldnt be affordable for Miss L, so they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Miss L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide who it will offer credit to, and if so, how much and on what terms. 
What this service would expect would be that the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer was affordable for 
that customer at that time.
I think that Barclays did that here. They took details of Miss Ls income and expenditure to 
confirm that Miss L had sufficient monthly disposable income to be able to afford the credit 
account, and they checked Miss Ls credit file to get a better understanding of Miss Ls wider 
financial position.
Im aware that Miss L feels that the large number of loans from payday lenders, which she 
had used regularly for several years leading up to the credit application, should have 
provided Barclays with a clear indication that she was in financial difficulties.
But, while the use of payday loans can be an indicator that a customer is experiencing 
financial difficulties, this isnt necessarily the case, and it would be expected by this service 
that a customers use of payday loans would be assessed in conjunction with that 
customers wider financial circumstances.
And, while Miss L had used a number of payday loans, several of which were active at the 
time of the credit account application, those loans appear to have been managed 
responsibly, and I say this because Miss Ls credit file doesnt show any evidence of missed 
or late payments on these payday loans, all of which appear to have been repaid on 
schedule and without incident.
Additionally, Miss Ls credit file shows that she had a bank account with a relatively low 
overdraft facility, and that she wasnt exceeding her overdraft facility at that time.
All of which means that Im not convinced by Miss Ls argument that her financial position 
was such that Barclays should have concluded that she was experiencing financial difficulty 
and not approved the credit account application. 
Its also worth noting that the credit facility that Miss L was approved for by Barclays was 
provided to her at a lower rate of interest  initially a temporary zero rate of interest  than 
Miss L is likely to have achieved when borrowing from payday lenders. So, it seems 
reasonable to conclude that the credit account she was approved for provided Miss L with 
the option of using a more cost affordable means of addressing her short-term borrowing 
needs than that provided by the use of payday loans.
Ultimately, having reviewed all the information here, Im satisfied that Barclays did conduct 
reasonable and proportionate checks into Miss Ls financial position before offering her a 
credit facility, and Im similarly satisfied that there was nothing that resulted from the checks 
that Barclays undertook that should have reasonably given them cause to consider that they 
shouldnt have approved Miss Ls application for credit.
I realise that this won be the outcome that Miss L was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Miss L can understand, given everything I have explained, why I have made the 
final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman