DRN-2806604
The complaint
Mrs Vs complaint is about how Santander UK Plc handled her chargeback.
 
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs V paid over £7,000 for dental treatment using her Santander debit 
card. She had a consultation and X-ray and a procedure was booked for February 2020. 
Mrs V arrived for her appointment, but the clinic was closed, and subsequent contact was 
unsuccessful. Mrs V raised a chargeback with Santander and provided evidence to support 
her claim. While funds were initially returned, the chargeback wasnt successful and so the 
funds were re-debited. Mrs V says that a Santander staff member acted in a threatening way 
by saying that if she didnt return the money she would be taken to court.
Santander says that it accepted Mrs Vs chargeback claim and added a temporary credit to 
her account. It says that Mrs Vs claim was investigated and taken to the highest level with 
the card provider but that the card provider didnt uphold the claim. It contacted Mrs V to 
explain that her account would be re-debited. It apologised to Mrs V as she had felt 
threatened but said this wasnt its intention rather it wanted to explain that if the funds 
werent returned then a recovery process would be followed.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that theres no automatic right to 
a chargeback and that chargebacks are decided based on the card schemes rules, not the 
merits of the dispute. She said Santander had raised Mrs Vs chargeback and forwarded the 
evidence Mrs V provided to the card provider and that it was the card providers decision not 
to uphold the claim. Our investigator didnt think that Santander had done anything wrong in 
the process.
Mrs V didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs V paid for dental treatment using her Santander debit card. She has explained that 
following the initial consultation and x-ray she attended the clinic for a procedure, but the 
clinic had closed. I can understand the upset this situation has caused Mrs V as she paid 
over £7,000 and then didnt get the treatment she paid for. However, this complaint is 
against Santander and so I must consider whether Santander treated Mrs V fairly in this 
process and carried out the actions it should have.
As our investigator explained, chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, 
not the relative merits of the dispute. So, in considering Mrs Vs chargeback complaint, I 
have to decide whether Santanders actions led to a loss for Mrs V and / or additional 
difficulty for her.
In this case, following Mrs Vs chargeback claim, Santander requested further information to 
be provided to support the claim. Mrs V provided this. Given the information Mrs V had 
provided I think that Santander acted correctly by applying a temporary credit to Mrs Vs 
account and processing the chargeback claim. Santander has explained that it took Mrs Vs 
claim to the pre-arbitration stage and as the claim wasnt upheld it contacted Mrs V about 
this and the re-debiting of the funds.
Therefore, while I can understand why Mrs V feels she hasnt been treated fairly and that 
she has lost out due to the issues with the clinic, I find that Santander did take reasonable 
action in putting forward Mrs Vs chargeback claim. As this wasnt upheld by the card 
provider I do not find I can say Santander did anything wrong by explaining this to Mrs V and 
re-debiting the funds.
I note Mrs Vs comments about the threatening way she was told about needing to pay back 
the funds. I appreciate this whole issue has been upsetting for her. While I agree Santander 
needed to explain the need to have the funds returned and the process if this didnt happen, 
it is important that the information is provided in a way that isnt considered threatening by 
the consumer. Santander has apologised for any upset it caused in this process which I find 
reasonable.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Vs situation, I find that Santander took reasonable 
action in dealing with Mrs Vs chargeback and so I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman