DRN-3518920
The complaint
Mr A complains that he couldnt access his credit report online with Transunion International 
UK Limited.
 
What happened
In April 2021, Mr A complained to Transunion that he was unable to access his credit report 
online. 
Transunion responded to Mr As complaint saying it had a robust customer verification 
procedure and that sometimes this procedure meant genuine applicants werent able to 
view their credit files online because their identification details couldnt be sufficiently 
matched. To help Mr A, they offered to provide him a postal copy of his credit file.
Mr A wasnt happy with Transunions response. So, he referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr As concerns, he said, in summary:
Transunion are entitled to decide what security measures it has in place and its terms 
and conditions set out that some applications for an online copy of their credit report 
will be unsuccessful. 
Mr As name was wrong on a letter Transunion sent to him but this was only in the 
letter and not on Mr As credit file. 
Although Transunion sent Mr A a paper copy of his credit file more than 30 days after 
he requested it, it was only delayed by about two weeks. The Investigator didnt think, 
in the circumstances of Mr As complaint, this warranted compensation. 
Mr A didnt accept the Investigators findings. Mr A reiterated Transunion didnt send him a 
paper copy of his credit file within 30 days and feels compensation is due for this.  As Mr A 
didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision and Ive set out my findings again below. 
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Transunions terms and conditions say that not all applications to view online credit reports 
are successful and that it doesnt have to explain why an individuals application hasnt been 
successful. The terms go on to say individuals in these circumstances can request a paper 
copy of their credit file. 
Its up to Transunion to decide what security measures it wants to use when dealing with 
applications for online credit files. And, its terms and conditions say it doesnt have to explain 
to applicants why an application hasnt been successful. 
I asked Transunion to show me its internal guidance about what it would do in situations like 
the one Mr A is in. But despite numerous requests, it hasnt sent me anything. This means I 
cant be sure Transunion has treated Mr A the same as it would treat its other customers in 
the same or similar circumstances. And I dont know if Transunion has followed its own 
processes.
As I havent seen anything that satisfies me that Transunions refusal to allow Mr A to access 
his credit file online was in line with its process, I currently think Transunion should pay Mr A 
£100.  
After his application to access his credit file online was declined, Mr A requested a paper 
copy of his credit file as part of his complaint in April 2021. The paper copy was sent to Mr A 
with a covering letter dated 1 June 2021. So, Im satisfied it was sent more than 30 days 
after Mr A asked for it. I appreciate this would have caused Mr A some frustration given he 
had to wait more than 30 days for a copy of his credit file.
Mr A says his name is recorded incorrectly on his credit file. I can see the covering letter 
sent with the paper copy didnt address Mr A using his full surname but, based on what Ive 
seen, the name on his credit file appears correct. Mr A hasnt provided anything to show the 
name was incorrect on the credit file itself. Transunion has told us this letter was written 
manually. So, I think the mistake on the covering letter was likely an administrative error 
when the paper credit file was produced.  
Although Transunion made mistakes by not sending the paper copy of Mr As credit on time 
and not addressing the covering letter correctly, I dont think these issues warrant 
compensation as the impact on Mr A appears to have been minimal. 
Provisional Decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint in part. 
To put things right, I plan to require Transunion International UK Limited to pay Mr A £100 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A responded to say he still felt the issue was caused because Transunion had his name 
recorded incorrectly and that it was only after he started entering his name differently he was 
able to access his credit file online. He thinks further compensation is warranted. 
Transunion responded with some further information about why Mr A wasnt able to access 
his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information Transunion have now provided, it seems there was a technical 
issue which is likely the cause of the problems Mr A experienced accessing his credit file 
online at the time. So Im satisfied Transunion is responsible for Mr A not being able to 
access his credit file in April 2021. 
Mr A says his name is recorded incorrectly on his credit file with Transunion and has 
provided a screenshot from May 2022 to support this. He thinks this is the cause of the issue. However, Ive seen evidence from the credit file when it was provided in June 2021 
that Mr As name was correct. So Im not persuaded by what Mr A has said. In addition, 
Transunion have said there was a technical issue. So Im more persuaded that this was the 
reason for Mr A not being able to access his credit report in April 2021. In any case, this 
decision isnt considering how his credit report is appearing now  its only considering the 
issue Mr A had logging on in April 2021.
I know Mr A believes further compensation is appropriate but having considered everything 
again, I still find £100 fairly reflects the inconvenience he was caused. I say this because a 
paper copy of his credit file was provided to him by Transunion. So he still had access to the 
information he wanted, albeit in a different format and a little later than he wouldve 
preferred. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint. 
To put things right, I require Transunion International UK Limited to pay Mr A £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman