DRN-3156933
The complaint
Mrs F and Mrs S complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages unfairly refused a buy to let mortgage application they made.
What happened
Mrs F and Mrs S applied, via a broker, for a mortgage with Precise in early 2020. Precise 
accepted the application and requested further information so it could be considered. A 
valuation of the property was instructed and carried out.
The broker provided more information, which Precise considered. It asked for further 
information, including a tax year overview for Mrs S from HMRC. Precise said that the tax 
year overview it had received showed outstanding tax still to be paid and it would need that 
to be cleared before it could go ahead with the application.
A further tax year overview was provided. Precise then considered the application and 
decided that it wasnt willing to offer Mrs F and Mrs S a mortgage. 
Mrs F and Mrs S asked Precise for an explanation of why it had refused their application. 
Precise said the application had been considered and declined by its credit risk department, 
but wouldnt give any further details about its decision. 
Mrs F and Mrs S complained to us. They said that they didnt understand why receipt of an 
official document from HMRC would cause their application to be declined. They were 
concerned that the refusal would impact their credit files and their chances of getting a 
mortgage in future. They wanted us to find that the application had been unreasonably 
refused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to state at the outset that mortgage lending is at the discretion of the lender. 
While a lender should give an application fair consideration, there is no obligation to grant an 
application or to lend. When an application is made, there can never be a guarantee that it 
will be accepted and the application is at the applicants risk.
Nor is there an obligation on a lender to give detailed reasons for refusing an application. A 
lender does not have to give an explanation, and nor is there a formal right of appeal against 
a decision. Lending are entitled to decide who they do and do not wish to lend to and are not 
obliged to give explanations for their decisions. Not every application will succeed; thats in 
the nature of mortgage lending.
That said, lenders are required to treat applicants fairly and lawfully  for example, they 
should not refuse lending on discriminatory grounds, and should give proper consideration to 
the information they receive.
When a lender considers an application, it will assess the application against its lending 
criteria  typically, this concerns matters such as whether the property is good security, 
whether the lending would be affordable, and whether there are any other risks the lender is 
not prepared to accept. The lender will also consider the information given in the application 
and the supporting evidence given alongside it, and carry out its own checks on what its told 
to verify it for itself. This is the underwriting procedure  underwriting procedures and the 
checks carried out are generally commercially sensitive and confidential to protect the 
integrity of the process.
In this particular case, Im satisfied that Precise carried out its own underwriting checks and 
procedures in considering the application. It required further information to understand more 
about the circumstances of the property purchase, Mrs Fs income and employment, and 
Mrs Ss income and tax affairs. Mrs F and Mrs S provided further information. 
Once Precise had all the information it needed, it considered Mrs F and Mrs Ss application 
and decided that it didnt want to lend to them. Its shared with us the reasons for refusal and 
while Ive accepted that in confidence  as Im entitled to do under our rules  Im satisfied 
that it had a reasonable basis for declining the application based on its assessment of the 
information it was given. This was a decision it was entitled to make and Im satisfied that in 
making this decision it didnt act unfairly or unlawfully. 
I appreciate that Mrs F and Mrs S are disappointed by the lending decision. They thought 
their mortgage application was likely to have been approved, and didnt understand why it 
wasnt. But theres always a risk in making any application that it wont be granted. 
Mrs F and Mrs S say that its not fair that they dont know the reasons for the refusal, and so 
cant correct any misunderstanding Precise may have, or challenge anything it might have 
got wrong. They believe it must have got something wrong.
But Precise doesnt have to give reasons for refusal or provide a right of appeal. To be given 
a mortgage is not a right that has been withheld from Mrs F and Mrs S; its a commercial 
transaction that Precise wasnt willing to be party to. So I dont think it was unfair that it didnt 
give Mrs F and Mrs S a detailed explanation. 
Mrs F and Mrs S say that in that case the mortgage application should not be reported to the 
credit reference agencies. They believe Precises decision is incorrect and therefore 
reporting might be libellous. If they cant challenge Precises decision, it shouldnt be 
reported externally. They are concerned that in reporting this application, Precise may hinder 
their chances of a successful future application to another lender.
When Mrs F and Mrs S applied to Precise, they accepted that Precise could share with 
external bodies  such as the credit reference agencies  that an application had been 
made, the outcome of the application, and other matters. This is a standard part of a 
mortgage application required by any lender. 
Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this case, Precise has not acted unfairly in sharing 
information about this application externally in the way it has. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that the information it has shared is unfair or inaccurate.
So while I understand that Mrs F and Mrs S are disappointed with the outcome of their 
application, Im not persuaded Precise has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman