DRN-1423884
 
The complaint
Mr B says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him. Mr B says he has suffered because of the lending and it has taken him three years to 
sort out his finances.  
What happened
This complaint is about eight short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr B between October 
2014 and May 2017. Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 05/10/2014 13/12/2014 1 £120.00 £129.00 2
2 10/01/2015 21/01/2015 3 £100.00   £61.33 0
3 22/01/2015 15/04/2016 6 £400.00 £141.33 0
4 24/04/2016 15/07/2016 3 £200.00 £101.87 0
5 25/10/2016 31/10/2016 3 £250.00 £123.33 0
6 11/11/2016 14/11/2016 3 £250.00 £149.63 0
7 22/12/2016 04/01/2017 3 £350.00 £176.73 0
8 05/05/2017 15/08/2018 3 £400.00 £264.53 0
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought the loans from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been given as by the time Mr B took the loan, there was a 
suggestion that he was struggling to manage his finances. 
Mr Lender disagreed but did offer to pay redress for loan four. We put the offer to Mr B but 
didnt wish to accept it.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr B didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one and two shouldnt be upheld 
and Mr Lender has already made an offer for loan four. Because of this, I dont think there is 
any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about this 
lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr B had with Mr Lender. So, it 
is something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. After doing so, like the adjudicator, Im 
going to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. Ill explain why. I should first say that I dont agree with Mr Lender when, in response to the adjudicator, it 
referred to a break in lending between loan four and loan five. By this time Mr B had been 
borrowing from Mr Lender for 18 months, so I dont think the three month break between 
loans four and five was a sufficient enough amount of time for it to have concluded that Mr B 
had overcome whatever the financial circumstances that had caused him to take high-cost 
credit in the first instance. So, Ill be considering the lending as all one chain. 
When Mr B returned to borrow more when he applied for loan three, I think his borrowing 
behaviour could have suggested that he was struggling with his finances. I say this because 
Mr B had delayed his repayment for loan one on two occasions. He then borrowed more 
money around a month later when he took loan two. He repaid loan two within two weeks 
which I appreciate could indicate that Mr B was on top of his finances to the extent that he 
could repay his borrowing well within the agreed term of the loan.
But I think that by repaying a loan early, and then coming back for additional borrowing, can 
equally be a sign of someone struggling with their finances and juggling their money to make 
ends meet. And I think that is likely in the case of Mr Bs borrowing. Loan three was taken 
one day after loan two was repaid early. Given the nature of high-cost short-term lending, I 
would question why someone would repay a loan early but then return for additional 
borrowing immediately afterwards. And loan three was for four times the amount taken at 
loan two and the borrowing term was twice that for loan two, increasing to six months. 
So, I think at this point Mr Lender should have reconsidered whether it was fair to carry on 
lending to Mr B when he applied for loan three. And perhaps it should have been looking to 
build a bigger picture of Mr Bs financial circumstances to verify the information he had 
already given to make sure it was a fair reflection of what it already knew. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
four and onwards. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr B had been indebted to Mr Lender for 18 months. So, 
           Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having 
to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan eight 
was taken out over two and half years after Mr Bs first. And it was for a larger 
amount. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr 
Lender over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr B lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans three and five to eight 
and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do  Ill include loan four for 
completeness
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans three to eight;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan three from Mr Bs credit file;
 
the number of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans four to eight should be removed 
from Mr Bs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman