DRN-3876582
The complaint
Mr S complains about his private medical insurance with BUPA Insurance Limited.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S is a member of a group, private medical insurance policy 
via his employer. He says that in July 2022, BUPA told him that it had applied a special 
condition to his cover and excluded treatment for, resulting from, or related to, a cough. 
He says that was the first time he was aware of that. 
Mr S complained to BUPA. BUPA said that in order to review the special condition it 
required medical information from Mr S GP. Mr S couldnt access the review form BUPA 
provided. 
Mr S accepts the special condition which excludes cover for asthma but says that a 
cough is a symptom, not a condition, so BUPA acted unfairly in applying that special 
condition. He wants BUPA to remove the special condition relating to a cough. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that this service doesnt 
generally tell insurers what cover to offer. The investigator said that Mr S cover was on a 
full medical underwriting basis and that at the start of Mr S membership, BUPA excluded 
cover for asthma and a chest infection. She said that in April 2015, the exclusions were 
changed to asthma and a cough. The investigator said that the same special conditions 
were shown on Mr S membership certificates each year. 
The investigator said that in 2022, BUPA no longer showed the special conditions in the 
membership certificate but instead included them in a letter to Mr S, which is why he 
received a letter from BUPA in July 2022. The investigator didnt think that BUPA had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the special condition about which Mr S 
complains.  
The investigator said the terms of Mr S membership provide that BUPA is entitled to ask 
for current clinical details at Mr S expense in order to review the special condition. She 
said that Mr S should ask BUPA for the form for his GP in an accessible form.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the investigator hadnt considered 
his main point that a cough is not a condition and that BUPA had declined to pay his 
GPs charges in completing the form. Mr S said that its unfair to say that he should have 
been aware of the special condition because it was on the certificate, which no one 
reads. 
The investigator responded to Mr S points and didnt change her view. Mr S didnt agree 
that it was fair for BUPA to exclude any undiagnosed medical condition where a cough 
might be a symptom. He said that whilst the membership guide provides that he provide  
information from his GP at his expense, its unreasonable to ask him to do that where the 
special condition has been applied unreasonably. 
Mr S asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr S membership, the relevant part of 
which say as follows:
Exclusion 27 Special conditions
For underwritten members we do not pay for treatment directly or indirectly relating to 
special conditions. 
We are willing, at your renewal date, to review certain special conditions. We will do this if, 
in our opinion, no treatment is likely to be needed in the future, directly or indirectly, relating 
to the disease, illness or injury referred to in the special condition or for a related disease, 
illness or injury. However, there are some special conditions which we do not review. If 
you would like us to consider a review of your special conditions please call the helpline 
prior to your renewal date. We will only determine whether a special condition can be 
removed or not, once we have received full current clinical details from your GP or 
consultant. If you incur costs for providing the clinical details to us you are responsible for 
those costs, they are not covered under your benefits.
has BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably?
Im not upholding Mr S complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:   
An insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the 
documentation. In general terms, an insurer is entitled to decide what risks its 
willing to accept. As the investigator has explained, this service wouldnt direct an 
insurer about which risks it should accept. 
Mr S membership certificate shows that his membership was underwritten, which 
means that Ms S gave BUPA information about his health and medical history. 
When Mr S first became a member, he told BUPA that he had asthma exacerbated 
by a chest infection. BUPA initially excluded treatment for, resulting from, or related 
to, asthma and a chest infection. There was an exchange of correspondence and 
BUPA changed the exclusion to asthma and a cough. 
In the particular circumstances here, I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly in 
excluding treatment for, resulting from, or relating to, a cough. Theres no basis on 
which I could fairly direct BUPA to exclude only conditions, not symptoms.  
Im satisfied that the special condition about which Mr S complains was clearly set 
out in Mr S membership certificate from 2015 onwards. So, I think that BUPA did 
enough to ensure that information was available to Mr S. BUPA isnt responsible if 
Mr S didnt make himself aware of the special conditions. The change in 2022 was 
simply in how BUPA recorded special conditions. The terms of Mr S membership provide that BUPA is willing to review certain 
exclusions after its seen current clinical information provided at Mr S expense. I 
dont think its unreasonable for BUPA to ask Mr S to provide updated clinical 
information at his expense. If Mr S wishes to pursue that, he should ask BUPA for 
a special condition review form in an accessible format.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman