DRN-4368051
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C are unhappy with the service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) following a claim made on their home insurance policy.
Mrs C and Mr C are both parties to this complaint. Mrs C has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mrs C throughout this final decision. 
RSA are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of third 
parties instructed on the claim. RSA have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
third parties instructed by them. In my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of 
any third party instructed by RSA during the course of Mrs Cs claim. 
 
What happened
In December 2022 Mrs C returned from holiday to find that her home had been flooded 
following a burst pipe. Mrs C contacted RSA to register a claim for the damage caused to 
her home and contents. RSA instructed a loss adjuster to assess the damage, and provide a 
scope of works. 
In March 2023 RSA provided Mrs C with a scope of works, and a breakdown of costs. Mrs C 
wasnt happy with the amount being offered to complete remedial work. Mrs C complained to 
RSA about the delays, and lack of proactive management of her claim.
 
RSA responded to Mrs Cs complaint on 27 May. RSA recognised that the claim had not 
been handled in line with their usual service standards. RSA offered Mrs C £400 in 
recognition of the delays on the claim, and impact on Mrs C. 
Mrs C was unhappy with this response, and asked for this service to consider her complaint. 
The investigator found that the compensation offered by RSA didnt go far enough in 
recognising the upset and inconvenience caused to Mrs C. The investigator recommended 
RSA pay Mrs C an additional £200. The investigator explained as the claim remained open 
and on-going, the findings and compensation recommended was only in relation to the 
period from when the claim started to the date of the final response in May. 
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings saying (amongst other things) we are still 
finding them difficult to deal with and causing us significant delays. They have now come up 
with a number for their liability to restore the house, and will not budge on this, however, key 
items are missing. We cannot get hold of anyone to come and review the restoration needed 
(they last came in March  pre-drying), and they are steadfast in their views. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Whilst I accept that claims of this nature do often take some time to properly scope out, I 
dont think the delays on the claim were reasonable. RSA accept this fact. So the dispute 
now relates to the award of compensation that should be paid in recognition of what went 
wrong, and the impact on Mrs C.
Mrs C has explained that her claim remains open, and unresolved. Mrs C has provided a 
summary of issues that RSA have failed to respond to more recently. Ive carefully 
considered Mrs Cs comments. And I dont doubt that the claims process has caused Mrs C 
and her family undue upset and frustration. But when reaching my decision on Mrs Cs 
complaint, Ive only considered events up to the date of the final response letter. This is 
because our rules only allow us to consider a complaint that a business has had a chance to 
respond to first. 
Mrs C can still complain about events that have happened after RSAs final response letter, 
but this will be dealt with as a separate complaint. This is to allow RSA the opportunity to 
respond first, and the chance to put things right. It is strongly recommended that RSA take 
steps to progress Mrs Cs claim in a timely way from this point on. 
When considering the impact on Mrs C, between December 2022 and the date of RSAs 
response in May 2023, Im persuaded the compensation amount of £600 recommended by 
the investigator is reasonable, and in line with what this service would direct. 
This amount takes into consideration the undue delays in updating Mrs C about next steps 
for her claim. It also accounts for the months of waiting for remedial work to begin. Because 
of these delays, Mrs C was forced to continually raise issues with RSA about the impact on 
her health and well-being. Mrs C was also concerned for her family, as a result of having to 
stay in mouldy, damp conditions, over a prolonged period of time. It was several months 
after the initial appointment in December 2022 that RSA sent a detailed response to Mrs C 
about the scope of works that would be included. This amounts to poor service, and its 
reasonable that RSA compensate Mrs C for the upset and inconvenience caused. 
Having considered these events, and the overall handling of Mrs Cs claim during the period 
in question, I think payment of £600 is fair compensation to Mrs C. I say this because it 
reasonably reflects the period of delay, the impact on Mrs C as a result of chasing RSA, and 
upset caused as a result of living in her home with her escape of water claim unresolved.  
 
Putting things right
I direct RSA to pay Mrs C and Mr C £600. This includes the £400 already offered in the final 
response letter (if not already paid), and an additional £200. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Neeta KareliaOmbudsman