DRN-4339944
The complaint
Ms A has complained that shes been unable to get a new preferential interest rate product 
on her mortgage that she holds with National Westminster Bank Plc.
Ms A holds this mortgage jointly with her estranged husband (who Ill refer to as Mr A). Mr A 
told NatWest that he doesnt agree to this mortgage being put on a new interest rate product.
What happened
Ms A and Mr A took out this mortgage in 2018 on a fixed interest rate of 1.89% until 31 July 
2023, after which it would revert to the standard variable rate (which at the time of the 
mortgage offer was 3.99%).
Ms A and Mr A separated last year, with Ms A remaining in the property with her children.
On 11 July 2023 a NatWest mortgage adviser emailed Ms A about her request for a new 
interest rate. He said:
I have looked through the information and would need to get an exception raised to 
proceed without the consent of the second party but I could do that between now and our 
appointment. To make you aware we wouldn't have to contact him but if he did contact us 
for what ever reason and object to the change we would have to reverse it.
The adviser raised a request with the exceptions team the same day, saying that Ms A was 
making the payments and if the mortgage went onto the standard variable rate it would be 
unaffordable for her. The exceptions team responded to ask the mortgage adviser to try to 
speak to Mr A as they were concerned that he would challenge it at a later date.
The mortgage adviser contacted Ms A two days later, on 13 July, to let her know that he 
would need to try to contact Mr A and said he would try him the following day.
Mr A wasnt willing to agree to a new preferential interest rate and so NatWest said it 
couldnt proceed. Unhappy with that Ms A raised a complaint.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. It said that from a legal perspective it needed all parties 
to agree to any change to a mortgage, but once Ms A had a finalised divorce financial 
settlement then it could consider matters again, depending on what the settlement said.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked at it. He said that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong in not allowing 
the mortgage to move to a new preferential rate as the divorce financial settlement hadnt yet 
been finalised and so there was a risk the house would have to be sold.
Ms A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I purposely havent mentioned Ms As specific personal circumstances in this decision to 
protect her privacy, but I can confirm that I have read and taken into account everything that 
has been said and provided about that. I would like to thank Ms A for how open she has 
been with us and NatWest. It is clear things havent been easy for her, and I hope she will 
accept my best wishes.
This mortgage remains in joint names, and although only Ms A is party to this complaint, 
Mr A is still jointly liable for the mortgage.
As the mortgage is on the standard variable rate, it means she must pay more each month 
than if a preferential interest rate was available. I understand Ms A has said she cant afford 
the full payment on the standard variable rate.
However, I must also bear in mind that Mr A is still party to the mortgage  and therefore still 
liable for the monthly payments, as well as the overall outstanding debt.
If a new interest rate product was arranged on the mortgage, that would reduce the monthly 
payments for Ms A. However, it would also tie both of them into the mortgage for the length 
of the rate when Mr A has been clear that isnt his wish. If the mortgage came to an end 
during that period, there would be an early repayment charge. This would increase the debt 
that Mr A is liable for  and also reduce his share of the equity in the property. Given their 
relationship has broken down but their finances have not yet been fully separated (due to 
this mortgage still remaining jointly held), that wouldnt be in either of their best interests. 
And the same would be true were a product fee to be added to the loan. Put together, that 
means any change to the interest rate product could be detrimental to Mr A.
In all the circumstances, I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong. It was caught in the 
middle of a dispute in wishes between Ms A and Mr A. As a joint party to the mortgage, Mr A 
has the same rights as Ms A in relation to the contractual terms and they cant be varied in a 
way that could be detrimental without his consent. Without that consent it wasnt possible to 
change the mortgage product. 
Ms A has said that NatWest told her it wouldnt need to contact Mr A and then went back on 
that. She said NatWest had ignored her wants and wishes and upheld Mr As, which is 
discrimination, and had NatWest just made the change without asking Mr A then there was a 
chance he wouldnt have questioned it.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms A, but it isnt a case of upholding one partys wants and wishes 
over the other. Instead, as an agreement couldnt be reached between Ms A and Mr A, then 
the contract just continues to run as it currently is without change. Unfortunately for Ms A 
that ties in with what Mr A wants, but that doesnt mean NatWest has favoured him, instead 
it is that all it has done is made no change at all to the mortgage contract.
I agree with Ms A that the email from the mortgage adviser wasnt as clear as it could have 
been about the risk Mr A would still need to be contacted, but that doesnt mean NatWest 
was wrong to say that attempt of contact needed to be made. It is possible Mr A may have 
not questioned it if NatWest had just made the change but, bearing in mind everything Ms A 
has said to us and NatWest about their relationship breakdown and why Mr A wasnt 
involved, I can understand why NatWest wasnt willing to take that risk. NatWest would have 
needed to write to both parties to confirm the change to the mortgage contract and, taking 
into account everything Ms A has said, it seems more likely than not that Mr A would have 
objected after the event so the rate change would have needed to have been unwound 
anyway.I know Ms A doesnt want to sell the property but if an agreement cant be reached between 
Ms A and Mr A as part of their divorce proceedings, then that will be a matter for a court to 
decide. It might help Ms A to speak to a financial or her legal adviser to find out what her 
options are in this respect if she hasnt already done so. However, in the absence of any 
consent from Mr A, contractual changes cant be made to this mortgage at the moment.
I understand Ms A has discussed with NatWest making reduced payments on a forbearance 
basis. Under that informal arrangement the full contractual monthly payment is still due, but 
as Ms A cant afford it NatWest accepts a lower amount each month for a period of time. As 
that isnt a formal change to the mortgage contract (which a new interest rate product would 
be) NatWest can accept those lower payments without needing Mr As authority to do so.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms A was hoping for. But after giving the matter careful 
consideration, Im unable to find that NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably in all the 
circumstances of this case.
I appreciate Ms As hopes were raised when she thought a new product could be arranged, 
and shes said she wants me to review the loss of expectation. Ive considered this point 
very carefully and whilst I can understand how disappointing it must have been for Ms A, I 
think NatWests apology was enough as the request to proceed without Mr A being 
contacted was raised on 11 July and she was told just two days later that Mr A would need 
to be contacted. It may be there were some earlier conversations, but until all the information 
had been gathered on 11 July NatWest wasnt in a position to consider the request.
Finally, I understand Ms A has spoken to NatWest about some other options for the 
mortgage. I can only consider the complaint that was answered in the complaint response 
letter of 14 August 2023 so I cant comment on those here. If Ms A would like to raise a 
complaint about any other issues she can contact our Investigator and he can discuss that 
with her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman