DRN-3889433
The complaint
Mr K complains about AXIS Speciality Europe SE (AXIS) who declined his claim under his 
commercial property insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a fire at his commercial premises, Mr K made a claim to AXIS. During the claims 
investigation, AXIS asked Mr K to provide evidence that the extraction system had ben 
professionally cleaned within the past 12 months, as this was a requirement of the policy. 
And as it had been found that the seat of the fire started in the extraction system. 
Mr K was unable to provide the evidence that AXIS required, and it declined his claim. 
Following its decision to decline his claim, Mr K then produced a certificate showing that the 
extraction system had been professionally cleaned, around five months before the fire and 
he asked AXIS to reconsider the claim. 
AXIS contacted the cleaning company that Mr K said he had used. That company confirmed 
that it hadnt carried out a clean of the system and that the certificate and invoice that Mr K 
had submitted were false. Consequently, AXIS, in its final response maintained that the 
claim should remain declined, as Mr K hadnt complied with the policy terms and conditions. 
So, Mr K referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the policy stated that the extraction system had to be professionally cleaned every 
12 months and as the fire started in the system, the requirement not being met, was material 
to the loss. Mr K was unable to show that he had the system professionally cleaned as the 
invoice and certificate that he produced were found to be false. So, our investigator wasnt 
persuaded that Mr K had complied with the requirement and couldnt ask AXIS to do 
anything further regarding the complaint. 
AXIS accepted the view, Mr K did not. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman, without 
making further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr K, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered the policy terms and conditions, as well as the comments made by both 
parties in order to reach my decision. 
One of the terms of the policy is that Mr K must ensure that the extraction system was 
professionally cleaned every 12 months: Ducts, flues and extraction motors associated with 
the extraction systemare cleaned along the entire length by an independent contractor at 
least every 12 months.  Mr K was asked by AXIS during the claims process to provide 
evidence that he complied with this term. This was relevant as it was found that the fire had 
started in the extraction system. And so, it was material to the loss. Mr K at that time was 
unable to provide such evidence and, on this basis, AXIS declined his claim. Im satisfied 
that AXIS was reasonable to have declined Mr K claim, as he hadnt at that stage complied 
with the policy terms. 
From what Ive read, Mr K instructed a loss adjuster, who later produced documentation that 
indicated that the extraction system had been cleaned, around five months before the fire. 
AXIS said that it couldnt accept the documents as it had doubts about their veracity. It had 
found (by having contacted the cleaning company who Mr K said carried out the clean) that it 
had not cleaned the extraction system.  AXIS also said that following the fire, its forensic 
investigators found a lot of grease on the extraction system, which would support that the 
system hadnt been professionally cleaned five months earlier. 
Mr K was asked if he wanted to provide any further evidence, apart from the certificate and 
invoice, that AXIS found to be false. But he didnt provide any other evidence. Consequently, 
Im not persuaded that Mr K has provided sufficient evidence that he complied with the policy 
term of having the extraction system professionally cleaned every 12 months. 
I understand that Mr K said that the cleaning company that he used had blackmailed him. In 
that, they would say that they hadnt cleaned the extraction system, unless he paid them a 
large sum of money. Mr K said that he had text messages that proved this. I note that Mr K 
hasnt provided any evidence to indicate what he did once this happened. And I note that he 
made this allegation to AXIS, after it had declined the claim. Accordingly, I think it would be 
more likely than not, had the threat been made, Mr K wouldve reported this before his claim 
had been declined. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I realise how disappointed Mr K will be, Im satisfied 
that AXIS were reasonable in concluding that Mr K hadnt complied with the policy terms and 
were fair to decline the claim. Consequently, I cant fairly ask AXIS to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman