DRN-3481795
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a package 
bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H opened a joint HSBC Advance account on 7 July 2011. Mr and Mrs H have 
said they were mis-sold this fee-paying account as they were told there were no free 
accounts available to them at the time.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the sale of their 
Advance account but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs H disagreed this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the Advance account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
Mr and Mrs H have told us that at the time they opened the joint Advance account they were 
told by a HSBC representative that they were not able to open a new free account. But they 
have since found out that HSBC was able to offer them a free account.
Information available from the time Mr and Mrs H took out their account is limited. But this 
isnt surprising considering the time that has passed and that businesses arent required to 
keep this type of information indefinitely. Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs H have told us, 
but I can see that at the time they opened their Advance account Mrs H was also added to 
Mr Hs existing free account. As Mrs H was being added to a free account, I think they would 
have been aware that HSBC was able to offer accounts that did not incur a fee.
I think its unlikely that a representative of HSBC would have advised Mr and Mrs H they 
would only be able to open a new account if it was a fee paid package bank account. To 
uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint on this basis I would need to see some persuasive 
evidence to support what Mr and Mrs H have told us, which I havent seen.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs H were provided with a tailored 
recommendation to take the Advance account. So, HSBC only had to provide enough 
information so that they could decide if the account was right for them.
Its not possible to know exactly what was said at the time of the sale but HSBC has 
provided a copy of the declaration forms Mr and Mrs H signed when the Advance account 
was opened. The forms included the terms and conditions of the account and the key 
benefits which included life cover, roadside breakdown cover and travel insurance. On both 
forms a tick was placed beside each benefit and the forms were signed by Mr and Mrs H. 
While Mr and Mrs H say they did not claim on any of the insurances they were eligible for 
them and these benefits could have given them piece of mind should they have needed to 
make use of them.
The Advance account also offered preferential rates on savings. Mr and Mrs H opened a 
savings account on the same day they took out the Advance account and deposited a 
substantial sum. This savings account benefitted from a higher rate of interest made 
available by Mr and Mrs H opening their Advance account.
With the above in mind I think Mr and Mrs H would have considered the benefit of having 
access to higher interest rate savings account appealing and this would have likely played a 
part in their decision to open the account. I also note evidence to suggest that they travelled 
abroad at this time, meaning that the travel insurance may also have been an incentive.
Overall, I think the Advance account was useful to Mr and Mrs H and I dont think it was mis-
sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman