DRN-3933076
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A feel that Santander UK Plc failed in their duty of care towards them which led 
to Mrs and Mr A being robbed shortly after they left Santanders branch.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A went into a Santander branch as they wanted to withdraw £4,000 from their 
account. While Mr A was at the counter completing the withdrawal, an unknown person 
entered Santanders branch without being greeted or challenged by any of Santanders 
branch staff. This person then took up a position close to Mr A, where its believed they 
overhead the nature of the transaction Mr A was undertaking. 
Mr and Mrs A left branch shortly afterwards and were followed by the unknown person who, 
along with two accomplices, proceeded to rob Mr and Mrs A in a nearby store, taking the 
£4,000 cash that Mr A had just withdrawn. Mr and Mrs A raised a complaint with Santander 
as they felt Santander had failed in their duty of care towards them by allowing the unknown 
person to enter the branch unchallenged which they felt led directly to their being robbed. 
Santander looked at Mr and Mrs As complaint. They didnt feel they had failed in their duty 
of care towards them and noted they had no control over the events that happened after Mr 
and Mrs A had left Santanders branch and gone into a nearby store. Mr and Mrs A werent 
satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander should 
be considered responsible for what happened or asked to reimburse Mr and Mrs A as they 
would like. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its only natural to sympathise with Mr and Mrs A here, and I have no doubt that what 
happened would have been deeply impactful to Mr and Mrs A on both a personal and 
financial perspective. However, this service is an impartial dispute resolution service. And 
so, in my professional capacity as an ombudsman, Im obliged to set aside my sympathy for 
Mr and Mrs A and ask impartially whether I feel Santander should fairly be considered as 
being responsible for what happened as Mr and Mrs A contend. 
The key event here is the unknown person being able to enter Santanders branch without 
being challenged by any member of Santanders branch staff. Mr and Mrs A feel that the 
failure of Santander to challenge this unknown person is a failure of Santanders duty of care 
to themselves  given that it was while in branch that this unknown person became aware 
that Mr A was withdrawing a large amount of cash  and that therefore Santander should be 
held responsible for the events that followed.
Santander have confirmed that their branch staff do meet and greet people who come into 
branch, when they are available to do so. However, Santander have also confirmed that, on 
this occasion, when the unknown person came into branch, all Santander branch staff were 
busy helping other customers, and so there wasnt a staff member free to meet and greet the 
unknown person at that time.
This seems reasonable to me. And while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A feel that Santander 
should always have a staff member present to meet people coming into branch, I feel that 
the function Mr and Mrs A describe here is more akin to that of a security guard  which 
Santander dont employ, and which Santander are under no obligation to employ  rather 
than that of branch staff. In short, I dont feel its unreasonable that a person can enter 
branch without being greeted, if all available branch staff are busy at that time.
Additionally, even had a member of Santanders branch staff been available to greet the 
unknown person as they entered, Im not convinced it follows from this that the robbery that 
unfortunately subsequently took place definitely wouldnt have occurred. 
This is because I feel the possibility exists that the unknown person may have been able to 
present Santanders staff with a reasonable explanation as to why he should be let into 
branch, such as requiring counter service or some other banking function which necessitated 
his coming in branch. And I feel that any counter argument Mr and Mrs A may present about 
the stringency of Santanders meet and greet process would again be more indicative of a 
security guard role, rather than a meet and greet function, as Santander have described it. 
All of which means that, while I readily accept that what happened here to Mr and Mrs A was 
reprehensible, I dont feel that Santander should fairly or reasonably be considered as 
having facilitated what happened as Mr and Mrs A suggest. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs A were wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I hope Mr and 
Mrs A will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman