DRN-3591499
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-handled an international money transfer 
and that it has failed to itemise fees that have been charged for the process.
What happened
On 9 November 2020, Mr H made a transfer of $18,491.52 from his HSBC US dollars 
account to a US dollars account that he holds with another bank (which Ill call the recipient 
bank). As such a transfer usually took between 1-3 days, Mr H became concerned when it 
hadnt arrived at the recipient bank after about five days. He then contacted HSBC multiple 
times using the online chat and phone. It wasnt until he was able to speak to the transfers 
team that the payment was traced. The funds were eventually returned to Mr Hs account on 
10 December 2020.
The funds were returned minus charges totalling $61. Apart from the $6 fee charged by 
HSBC, the rest of the charges do not appear on Mr Hs statements. Mr H says he was then 
charged fees of $92 when he then successfully re-sent the funds to the recipient bank. 
Again, only the $6 HSBC fee was itemized on his statement. He sees this as fraud, or if not, 
certainly lacking in transparency.
In responding to the complaint, HSBC explained the route that a US dollars transfer would 
take. It has to go via a US bank and therefore HSBC sent it to HSBC USA. From there it 
would go to the recipient banks agent bank and then onto the recipient bank itself. The 
problem here was that the recipient bank had changed its agent bank and HSBC said that it 
was unaware of this change. Therefore, HSBC USA sent the payment to the old agent bank. 
Not knowing what it was for, the old agent back returned the payment to HSBC USA who in 
turn returned it to HSBC. But, because HSBC USA hadnt put a marker on the payment, it 
didnt flag with HSBC that it needed to do anything with it. So the money sat in a holding 
account until it was traced and returned to Mr Hs account on 10 December 2020. 
With regard to charges, HSBC said that, in addition to its usual $6 charge, the old agent 
bank had additionally imposed an administrative fee of $55. In terms of intermediary charges 
appearing on statements, as the charges werent being made directly by HSBC, it was not 
possible to include them as separate items. 
HSBC initially offered Mr H £150 compensation to cover the charges that had been incurred 
as well as the inconvenience he had suffered. When he explained that he had been calling 
from abroad and spent a lot of time on hold, HSBC increased its compensation offer to £250.
Our investigator thought that HSBC could have put a trace on the payment when Mr H first 
contacted it, in which case the funds could have been returned shortly afterwards. As HSBC 
were at fault, he recommended that the compensation be increased to £600, to which HSBC 
has agreed.
Mr H doesnt think that £600 is enough to compensate him for his stress and inconvenience. 
He says that half of the money he transferred was to invest in Bitcoin and that he lost out on 
making a significant profit.
As Mr H disagrees with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has mentioned, there is some disagreement about when the details for 
the agent bank were updated. The recipient bank said that it took appropriate action to 
inform financial institutions of the change prior to Mr Hs transaction. Whereas HSBC says 
the changes werent made on the Bank Check system, that it relies on, until afterwards.
But even if I were to conclude that HSBC were at fault, then I would say that it had to return 
the charges that were incurred by sending the funds to the wrong agent bank. But HSBC has 
offered to refund those charges to Mr H already as part of its compensation offer. So I dont 
think I need to consider this point further.
When Mr H first contacted HSBC via its online chat facility he was told to just wait another 
week to see if the payment turned up. As our investigator has said, HSBC could have taken 
the opportunity to put a trace on the payment at this point. HSBC also accepts that it should 
have done this. Once a trace was carried out, the funds were easily found and returned to 
Mr Hs account. It is unreasonable that it took a month for this to happen.
As already mentioned, the transfer incurred fees of $61. A $6 transaction fee charged by 
HSBC did appear on Mr Hs account statement but the additional $55 deduction was not 
detailed anywhere. Similarly, when Mr H did then successfully make the transfer, it arrived at 
his recipient bank with extra deductions over and above the $6 HSBC transaction fee.
Mr H was used to deductions being made from transfer amounts that werent itemised on his 
HSBC statements. He says that previous transfer amounts would arrive at his recipient bank 
with a deduction of $25. This is the handling fee that HSBC USA charges. So Mr H was 
aware that other charges were being applied, although he says he never queried it before.
HSBC has provided a copy of its online payment journey where it is confirmed that 
intermediary charges may apply. The transaction is treated as an international transfer as it 
has to be routed via a US bank using the SWIFT payment system. HSBC is unable to state 
how much other banks might charge because in most cases it would not know this in 
advance. Therefore, it is reasonable that it warns its customers that other charges may 
apply. With regard to intermediary fees on international payments, HSBCs website states:
If we send money to or receive money from places outside the EEA, we may use an 
intermediary bank. They and the receiving bank may also impose charges, which could 
include payments sent through, or to, another HSBC bank.
So while I can see that it would help Mr H to be provided with a breakdown of any charges 
applied to a payment like this, it wont always be fair to expect HSBC to provide that, where 
charges are applied independently of its involvement. The charges were applied after the 
funds left Mr Hs account. And HSBC was only aware of the charges that it has made directly 
here. However, as part of my investigation I asked HSBC if there was any way that Mr H 
could receive a breakdown of costs. HSBC said it related to how the transactions were set 
up. I asked our investigator to pass this information about the different available options to 
Mr H in the hope that it may assist him in the future.
Mr H says he lost out on making a profit on a cryptocurrency investment as a result of 
HSBCs mistake and provided some information about the price variance between 9 November and 16 December 2020. We asked Mr H for some further details of his investing 
history and for evidence that he did use part of the later successful transfer to buy Bitcoin. 
Mr H declined to answer, for reasons that I understand. But that does make it difficult to fully 
assess the impact that the delay had on him and consequently Im not persuaded that HSBC 
should be asked to cover any potential investment losses. However, having over $18,000 go 
missing for 30 days would have been extremely stressful, particularly as Mr H struggled to 
get anyone from HSBC to help him during the early stages.  On balance, I consider that 
£600 is an appropriate amount to compensate Mr H for stress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman