DRN-3411592
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with several aspects of the service hes received from Ikano Bank AB (publ)
surrounding his request to change a direct debit date.
What happened
Mr L contacted Ikano because he wanted to change that date of a monthly direct debit
payment. The direct debit was cancelled, and Mr L was asked by Ikano to call back when his
next payment was due to make that payment and to set up the direct debit for his preferred
date moving forwards.
Mr L then tried to contact Ikano again on his preferred date to reset his direct debit but
struggled to get through. After several attempts he was able to speak with an Ikano agent
and reset the direct debit, although he then had to contact his bank to make that months
payment to Ikano because Ikano werent able to take payment over the telephone as hed
been previously told that they would.
Despite making this payment to Ikano from his bank, Mr L subsequently received a letter
from Ikano which advised that hed missed his payment. Mr L wasnt happy about this, or
with the trouble hed had when trying to speak to Ikano, including that Ikano had provided
him with contact telephone numbers which didnt work. So, he raised a complaint.
Ikano looked at Mr Ls complaint. They acknowledged they hadnt provided Mr L with the
standard of service that they aspire to, and they apologised to Mr L and offered to make a
payment of £40 to compensate Mr L for any trouble and upset hed incurred.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Ikanos response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Ikanos offer of £40 compensation
didnt fairly reflect the amount of inconvenience and upset that Mr L had experienced here,
and so they recommended that Ikano increase the amount of compensation payable to Mr L
by a further £50, to a total of £90.
Ikano didnt respond to the view put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 March 2022 as follows:
Ikano dont dispute that the standard of service theyve provided to Mr L in this 
instance is below the standard that theyd expect, and theyve apologised to Mr L for 
this and offered to pay £40 compensation to Mr L because of this.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair 
and reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. 
However, While I commend Ikano for the spirit of their offer here, I dont feel that the 
offered compensation amount of £40 is a fair and reasonable amount in this instance 
and in consideration of the circumstances of this complaint.
I say this because Mr Ls experience here included several distinct events which Mr L 
has explained were frustrating and inconvenient to him, including that letters sent to 
Mr L by Ikano included contact numbers that didnt work, that Mr L was initially told to 
telephone Ikano to make a payment only to be subsequently told that such payment 
couldnt be taken, and that Mr L didnt receive confirmation from Ikano that any of the 
emails that hed sent when trying to resolve these matters had been received by 
Ikano. And Ikano have confirmed that they were experiencing several operational 
issues at the time in question which meant that Mr Ls complaints in these regards 
are valid and fair.
Mr L has also explained that in order to complete his objective of changing his direct 
debit date  which should reasonably have been a relatively simple task  and to 
then attempt to resolve the service issues that followed, he had to try to call Ikano on 
at least fifteen occasions, often without success due to lengthy hold times and not 
being connected.
I can appreciate how the combination of all of these factors would be frustrating and 
highly inconvenient for Mr L, as he has explained to this service was the case, and 
on this basis I feel that Ikano should make a total compensation payment of £200 to 
Mr L which I feel would more fairly compensate him for the trouble and upset that 
hes incurred here. My provisional decision is therefore that I uphold this complaint in 
Mr Ls favour on that basis.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr L and Ikano the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Mr L confirmed that he was happy to accept my provisional decision, while Ikano 
explained that they felt the amount of compensation that I had provisionally awarded wasnt 
merited in this situation.
Ikano explained that while they acknowledged that Mr L had made a high number of calls to 
them, the large majority of these calls were to their customer service lines, which included 
recorded hold messages that directed holding customers who wanted to make payments to 
a different, less busy telephone number, where a payment could be more easily made, as 
well as to an online portal where customers could request contact from Ikano.
I can appreciate Ikanos position here, but even if I accepted that Mr L could have 
reasonably taken alternative steps to make a payment, this only addresses one of the 
several aspects of Mr Ls complaint  as described above. As such I dont feel that any 
reduction in the £200 compensation amount that I provisionally instructed would be merited if 
it were the case that I were to accept Ikanos position here.
All of which means that my final decision will be that I am upholding this complaint on the 
basis explained above in my provisional decision, and I can confirm that I do uphold this 
complaint in Mr Ls favour accordingly.
Putting things right
Ikano must make a payment of £200 to Mr L to compensate him from the upset and 
inconvenience he has incurred here.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Ikano Bank AB (publ) on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman