DRN-1431204
The complaint
Mr O and Mr O2 complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) voided their landlord 
insurance policy.
Mr O has brought the complaint on behalf of him and Mr O2, so I will refer only to Mr O for 
ease.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr O bought a commercial landlord policy with AXA online. During that 
application, Mr O was asked questions about the construction of the roof, which he said was 
of standard construction. AXA provided a quote on that basis, which Mr O accepted.
In July 2019 he registered a claim for storm damage to the roof of the insured property. 
When Mr O spoke to AXA, it asked him several questions about the construction of the roof, 
but it didn't send a loss adjuster.
AXA says Mr O told it that the roof was a timber structure with wooden decking, topped with 
several layers of bitumen/mineral felt. AXA says this type of roof isn't of standard 
construction. Mr O later said his roof was made of asphalt, which AXA does consider to be of 
standard construction. So the case was reviewed by AXAs underwriters.
Mr O had made a previous claim for the roof and had received a quotation from a tradesman 
as part of that. Using the information Mr O had provided and the details from the previous 
claim, AXA determined that Mr Os roof was made from mineral felt on timber, which it's 
underwriters didn't consider to be of standard construction.
AXA contacted Mr O to explain that it had voided the policy, so it was cancelled as if it never 
existed, and it refunded the premiums Mr O had paid. As the policy had been voided, AXA 
didn't pay the claim. AXA said it has asked Mr O clear questions at the point of sale and 
provided a definition of standard construction to assist Mr O in answering accurately. It 
says if Mr O had made it aware the roof was of non-standard construction, it wouldn't have 
quoted or provided cover for the policy. So it says if Mr O had answered correctly, the policy 
never would have existed. Mr O didn't agree so referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said AXA had 
asked clear questions and provided a definition of standard construction so it was Mr Os 
responsibility to answer that question correctly. She said that AXA had provided evidence 
that it wouldn't have provided cover for Mr O if it had been aware of the construction of the 
roof so was entitled to void the policy.
Mr O didn't agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I've decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.Mr O has raised several concerns about the way his complaint was handled. But as the 
investigator explained, we cant look into these under our rules because, in this case, they 
aren't a regulated activity.
This insurance policy was a commercial policy. So it was Mr Os responsibility to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to AXA when taking out the policy.
If Mr O failed to do this then the action AXA can take will depend on whether it can show that 
the breach of this duty was deliberate or reckless. If the breach was deliberate or reckless, 
AXA can void the insurance, decline the claim and retain the premiums that have been paid. 
If the breach wasn't deliberate or reckless, the insurer can void the policy and return the 
premiums (as if the policy never existed) if it can show it wouldn't have provided cover had 
Mr O made a fair presentation of the risk.
When Mr O purchased the policy, he was asked Is this property of standard construction?. 
The help text next to this question explained:
Answer yes to these questions if this property is:
Built using brick, stone or concrete, and roofed with slates, tiles, metal, concrete, 
asphalt, sheets or slabs of entirely non-combustible mineral ingredients, and with 
plastic roof lights.
Built using metal or composite panels and insulated with any material other than 
polystyrene.
If your property is built using materials other than those listed above, please answer 
no to this question
 
The wording of the question and the help text specifically lists the types of construction AXA 
considers standard, so I think the wording of the question is clear and not misleading. Mr O 
has explained that he is not a roofing expert. But he was able to provide AXA with a 
description of the roof he was claiming for when he reported the claim. And he had received 
a repair quote for a previous claim which made him aware of the type of construction of the 
roof. So I think Mr O was aware  or ought to have been aware  of the type of construction 
of the roof.
Mr O says he answered the question based on his understanding of standard construction. 
He says this type of roof is widely used so the construction is standard. But the help text is 
clear and explains what AXA considers to be standard construction. This definition was 
easily available when Mr O was completing his application and it was for Mr O to ensure that 
he made a fair presentation of the risk to AXA so, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Mr O to check AXAs definition of standard construction.
As Im satisfied Mr O didn't make a fair presentation of the risk to AXA, I have then 
considered what actions AXA was entitled to take. AXA has provided evidence to this 
service to show that it never would have provided cover if it had been told the roof wasn't of 
standard construction, so I think its decision to void the policy is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. This means there was no policy in force at the time of the storm, so AXA was 
entitled not to pay the claim.
AXA hasn't suggested Mr Os failure to answer the question correctly was deliberate or 
reckless, so it has refunded the premiums Mr O paid it, which is the correct remedy in this 
instance. So I dont think AXA needs to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mr O2 to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman