DRN-3154811
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Wealthify Ltd didnt deem him eligible to benefit from a cashback offer 
when he opened an ISA with them.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr W set up a Junior ISA (JISA) with Wealthify for the benefit of his 
young son. At that time, Wealthify were offering cashback of £25 to new customers.
In January 2021, Mr W contacted Wealthify again to open an ISA for himself. At that time, 
Wealthify were offering cashback of £40 to new customers. However, when Mr W provided 
his details to open the ISA, and to take advantage of the £40 new customer cashback offer, 
he was informed that he had already registered as a customer at the time that he had 
opened the JISA and so wasnt eligible for the offer. Mr W wasnt happy about this and felt 
that he was being discriminated against because he was the parent of a young child, and so 
he raised a complaint.
Wealthify looked at Mr Ws complaint. They explained that both the £25 cashback offer and 
£40 cashback offer had been available to new customers, and because Mr W had been a 
new customer in December 2020, when hed opened the JISA and when the £25 cashback 
offer had been available, he wasnt eligible for the later new customer cashback offer when 
he applied to open an ISA in January 2021, because he wasnt a new customer at that time. 
However, while Wealthify did confirm to Mr W that he was only eligible for one new customer 
cashback offer, they did explain to Mr W that they were happy to allow him to choose which 
of the two cashback offers he would like to benefit from  the £25 offer applied to the JISA, 
or the £40 offer applied to the ISA.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Wealthifys response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Wealthifys response to 
Mr Ws complaint, including the explanation of why Mr W wasnt eligible for both cashback 
offers and the offer made by Wealthify to allow Mr W to choose which of the two cashback 
offers hed like to benefit from, already represented a fair and reasonable response to what 
had taken place. 
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W contends that, because he opened the JISA on behalf of his young son, it is his son 
who should be considered as the customer regarding the JISA, and not himself. This would 
mean that its Mr Ws young son who is the new customer who has benefited from the £25 
cashback offer on the JISA, and also that that Mr W was a new customer when he applied 
for the ISA in his own name in January 2020 and as such should be eligible to receive the 
£40 cashback offer that was available at that time.
I can appreciate why Mr W might hold this view. But it isnt the case that its Mr Ws young 
son who is the customer regarding the JISA, but rather the customer for the JISA is Mr W 
himself. This is because Mr Ws young son is not of an age where he can directly own a 
financial product such as ISA, and so the JISA is structured so that it is opened and owned 
by a parent or legal guardian on a childs behalf. And this means that the parent or legal 
guardian is the customer.
As such, Im satisfied that Wealthify werent acting unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W 
when they deemed him to not be a new customer when he applied for an ISA in his own 
name in January 2021, and this is because Mr W was a new customer with Wealthify when 
he himself opened a JISA, for the beneficial interest of his son, in December 2020. Similarly, 
Im also satisfied that Wealthify havent discriminated against Mr W on the basis that hed the 
father of a young son for the same reasons.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Wealthify have already issued to 
Mr W in response to this complaint, including the offer to allow Mr W to choose which of the 
two new customer cashback offers hed like to benefit from, does represent a fair and 
reasonable response to this complaint, and it follows from this that my final decision here will 
be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Wealthify to take any further action 
at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting here, but I trust that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman