DRN-2962574
The complaint
Mr N complains about the early repayment charge (ERC) on his mortgage with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr N had a mortgage with Barclays. In 2019 he took a two year fixed rate. In 2020 he moved 
abroad for work.
He decided to sell his property and port his mortgage to another, larger, property. He 
accepted an offer to buy his old property. But because of coronavirus pandemic restrictions 
in the UK and in the country he was working in, he couldnt travel back to the UK to look for a 
new property.
When the old property sold and the mortgage redeemed, Barclays charged Mr N an ERC of 
2% of the mortgage balance  around £13,000. It said that if he took out another mortgage 
and ported his interest rate within 90 days, it would refund the ERC. 
Mr N explained he couldnt return to the UK, through no fault of his own. He couldnt find 
another property. He offered to deposit the equity from the sale with Barclays, or to pay the 
remaining interest on his fixed rate term, instead of the ERC. Barclays refused that, though it 
extended the porting window from 90 days to 180 days.
Mr N wasnt able to find another property in time. He complained about the ERC. He didnt 
think it was fairly calculated, as he didnt believe it represented Barclays losses on the early 
redemption of his mortgage. And he thought Barclays should have been more 
accommodating of the exceptional circumstances he faces as a result of the covid-19 
pandemic.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint, so Mr N asked for it to be 
looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules of mortgage regulation set out requirements for ERCs. A lender is entitled to 
charge an ERC where a preferential interest rate ends early. But if it does so, the ERC must 
be:
A reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination; and
Able to be expressed as a maximum cash amount.
An ERC doesnt need to be set for each individual mortgage; a lender is entitled to base its 
pre-estimate based on the costs across a group of mortgages.
Mr Ns mortgage offer sets out that if the rate comes to an end early, there is an ERC of 2%. 
And it sets out the maximum amount that could be in cash terms.
Barclays has explained how it decided to set the ERC at 2% for the group of mortgages 
which included Mr Ns. Its asked that the details be kept confidential, and as its 
commercially sensitive information I think thats a reasonable request. However, in summary, 
Barclays has shown us that it enters into financing to protect itself against the consequences 
of market changes while its income from the mortgages is fixed. And if the rate ends early, it 
no longer receives any income at all  so has to unwind the costs of that financing early. It 
also spreads its own costs over the term of the interest rate  and, in the case of early 
termination, doesnt recover those costs.
It then estimates how many mortgages in the group will end early, and spreads the cost of 
early termination across the group on the basis that if the estimated number do in fact end 
early, it will recover the costs across the group. That means that in some individual cases it 
might recover less than it needs, and in some others more  depending on when an 
individual mortgage ends. But across the group as a whole, the ERCs recovered should 
cover the costs incurred through early termination.
Mr N points out that by the time he paid the ERC, wider interest rates had significantly 
decreased, and therefore  he believes  the costs Barclays actually incurred would be 
lower than the estimate.
And that may be right. But its not a relevant consideration. The rules require there to be a 
pre-estimate  an estimate in advance of the mortgage being taken out, not an estimate at 
the time of early termination.
The reason for that is to give certainty and allow the ERC to be expressed in the mortgage 
offer in a clear way as a cash sum. That in turn means that the borrower knows, before the 
mortgage is taken out, the likely costs of early termination  and can take that into account 
when deciding whether to take the fixed rate. If an estimate could be updated during the life 
of the mortgage, such that the ERC would be different depending on when it ended, it 
wouldnt be possible to give the borrower certainty from the start.
It's in the nature of an estimate of costs, fixed months or years ahead of the event that 
triggers the costs, that changing circumstances since might mean the estimate is no longer 
accurate. 
But this can work either way; if circumstances and market conditions change to increase its 
costs, Barclays cant increase the ERC after the estimate was given and the mortgage 
entered into, just as it cant reduce them.
So even if Mr N is right that by the time he redeemed the pre-estimate was out of date and 
not accurate, that doesnt mean it was unfair for Barclays to continue to rely on it. 
The particular costs of terminating Mr Ns mortgage arent relevant either  since, as Ive set 
out above, the pre-estimate is based on the average costs across a group of mortgages 
rather than the costs of each individual one ending early. Thats because it cant be 
predicted in advance whether, and if so when, an individual borrower might end their 
mortgage early  but it is possible to predict average customer behaviour across a broader 
group. And so this approach also allows a reasonable estimate, expressible from the start in 
cash terms, to be given to borrowers in advance. 
Even though Mr N took a fixed mortgage to which he was tied in for two years, the terms and 
conditions allowed him to bring it to an end before the tie in expired  as long as he paid the lenders estimated costs in doing so, which he was told about before he agreed to the rate. 
In charging the ERC, therefore, Barclays operated the mortgage fairly and in line with the 
terms and conditions.
I do understand Mr N was in a difficult position because of the pandemic. Ordinarily he would 
have been able to find another property to buy and port his mortgage, avoiding the ERC.
Barclays recognised this by doubling the usual window for non-simultaneous porting. I think 
that was fair, and covered difficulties caused by the housing market having been shut down 
for two months in 2020.
Mr N wasnt just affected by the market shutdown, of course  he was also affected by 
ongoing travel restrictions because he was out of the UK. And I understand his frustration at 
the impact that caused him.
But I dont think that means Barclays should fairly have waived the ERC, or otherwise made 
special arrangements for him. It wasnt responsible for his situation  and, importantly, Mr N 
knew of the difficulties he would have in buying a new property when he decided to go 
ahead with the sale of the old one. Ultimately, Barclays was entitled to charge the ERC when 
the mortgage came to an end, and I think extending the usual porting window was a fair way 
to assist its customers, even if in the end it wasnt enough to avoid the ERC for Mr N. He 
was in a very unfortunate position, but that doesnt mean that its fair to expect Barclays to 
bear the costs of that misfortune.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman