DRN-2687353
The complaint
Mr M complains that Direct Auto Finance Insurance Services Limited (DAFS) mis-sold 
him a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which he took out in 
2005 in connection with a loan to buy a car. At the time of the sale, DAFS was an 
appointed representative of Direct Auto Financial Services Limited - which company is 
now dealing with this complaint for Mr M.
What happened
Mr M complained to this service. He told us he took out a loan on 8 February 2005 
during a meeting. Mr M said he thought PPI was part of the deal; the costs, benefits and 
terms were not overly explained to him and, as he needed the car, he didnt feel he had 
any choice. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr M disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
Mr M added the following points:
It was not clear he was taking out a separate loan for the PPI;
It was not clear that the PPI loan continued after the car loan was cancelled;
He was told he had to have the PPI to get the loan;
His cancellation rights were not explained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint him, so Ill set out my 
reasons below.
Mr M said he wasnt told the PPI was an optional product. So I first looked to see if the policy 
was presented to him as a separate and optional product.
DAFS produced a copy of Mr Ms credit agreement, a Demands and Needs Statement 
and a Handover Checklist which were probably all completed for him at the time of the 
sale. I can see the PPI was listed in the section headed Additional Optional Insurances 
on the final credit agreement. I can also see the Demands and Needs statement 
recommended PPI to Mr M and he signed the form under the declaration which said: I 
have decided I wish to take up these insurance products. I think it was possible for Mr M 
not to accept the recommendations and so he could have declined the PPI. 
As he had that choice, I think the policy was presented as an optional product. I also 
noted that the credit agreement referred to optional insurance, so I think it was more 
likely that Mr M was aware the policy was optional, and he chose to buy it.
Mr M said he was told he had to get the PPI to get the loan  so he may have felt 
pressured to buy it at the time of the sale. However, I have looked at the documents very 
carefully, and there isnt enough evidence to show he was put under this pressure to buy 
PPI. So I cant uphold the complaint for that reason.
Both parties agree this was an advised sale so I will continue on that basis. For such 
sales, DAFS would have had to recommend a policy which was suitable for Mr M.
Having looked at Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the sale, I do think the policy was 
suitable because he was eligible for the cover; I havent seen any evidence it wasnt 
affordable for him, and he didnt seem to be affected by the main things not covered by 
the policy (the exclusions).
Mr M said he would get sick pay from his employer, and that he also had some savings. 
But I think the PPI could have given him a useful benefit which could cover his loan 
repayments if he made a successful claim for sickness or an accident (as well as 
unemployment). This would leave his sick pay and savings for other expenses. So I dont 
think Mr Ms employee benefits made the policy unsuitable for him.
DAFS also had to make sure Mr M got information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading. So I looked at the main PPI policy features which Mr M may have seen at 
the time of or shortly after the sale.
It isnt clear how or if any of the key features were explained or highlighted to him. But as 
the main exclusions didnt seem to affect him, I dont think that any more detailed 
information would have put him off from buying the PPI
I saw Mr Ms credit agreement. I saw it set out the separate loan amount for the PPI 
premium, the amount of the PPI loan, the number of monthly instalments, the interest 
rate on the whole loan amount and the monthly premium for the whole amount he 
would have to pay. And as he signed the credit agreement, I think he probably saw 
these figures and was aware of the PPI cost. So I dont think any further information 
about cost and benefits would have stopped him from buying it.
Mr M also said it was not clear that the PPI loan would continue after the car loan was 
cancelled. However, I can see on the front page of the credit agreement that it was 
explained that if the car loan was cancelled, then the PPI loan would continue. It also 
explained on the Demands and Needs statement and on the insurance policy that he 
could cancel the insurance products.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI was optional and that Mr M chose to 
have it added to his account. I think it was probably suitable for him and I think he was 
probably given enough information about it. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman