DRN-3555652
The complaint
Mr C complains about the valuation that Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his 
car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants this increased. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. Admiral eventually offered him 
£28,022, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr C was unhappy with this 
as hed found higher valuations in the motor trade guides and similar cars advertised for 
higher prices. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He looked for 
valuations of Mr Cs car in keeping with our approach. And he thought Admirals offer was 
within the range of valuations he found. So he thought Admirals valuation was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr C replied that he thought Admiral should have offered him the retail price for his car 
which he thought was £30,240. He also thought Admiral should offer him the highest 
valuation found in the motor trade guides, £29,480. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that his 
policy provides for the cars market valuation in the case of total loss, not for its like for like 
replacement. This is defined in the policy booklet:
The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market' refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr C disagrees with our approach, but its one we use as we believe its fair 
and reasonable for all parties. Also, its not for us to tell an insurer how it should establish the 
market value of cars. Again, we simply look to see whether its offer is reasonable. 
Mr C found similar cars to his own advertised at higher prices and he thought we should take 
this into account. But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are 
essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides 
are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. Its not for me to comment on 
how some publications arrive at their valuations of cars. 
Our Investigator thought Admirals final offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive looked to see 
how he arrived at this conclusion. I can see that he checked the motor trade guides we use 
for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Cs at the date of its 
loss. The valuations he found ranged between £26,750 and £29,480. Admirals offer fell 
within the range of these amounts, and so Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable. And I 
dont require Admiral to increase its offer. 
I can see that Admiral deducted an amount from the retail transacted valuation provided by 
the trade guide it used. It told Mr C this was because of MOT failures, tyre wear and 
because the car had been bought privately. Admiral explained that it looks for a valuation 
tailored to the individual car. 
I can understand that Mr C feels this is unfair. And we think its unfair for deductions to be 
made where MOT advised repairs have been rectified, as Mr Cs were. But the final offer 
was still within the range of valuations provided by the trade guides we use. So I cant say 
that this caused Mr C any loss. And Im satisfied that Admirals final offer was fair and 
reasonable and I dont require it to increase its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman