DRN-1840671
 
The complaint
Mr H's debit card was blocked following concerns about suspicious activity on it. The card 
has been replaced but Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc won't provide him with the 
details of the business that prompted the concerns or the extent of the breach.
What happened
On 11 February 2002 Mr H received a text to say there was suspicious activity on his Lloyd's 
debit card. The next day when he went to use it, he found the card had been blocked so he 
contacted Lloyds. Lloyds said its systems had flagged up an alert to say the card could 
have been compromised and needed to be replaced. Mr H wanted to know what had 
prompted the alert but Lloyds said it couldn't tell him as, for security reasons, it was against 
its policy to disclose that information. 
When Mr H called again the following week, Lloyds said its systems had detected suspicious 
activity but that could be for a number of reasons and it wasn't able to say specifically what 
business or transaction had generated the alert  It confirmed that, in any event, it wasn't its 
policy to disclose it.
Mr H feels Lloyd's explanation is inadequate. He says that, as a consumer, he's entitled to 
know the source of the alert and that in failing to tell him, Lloyds is complicit with any fraud.
Lloyds said its security systems capture intelligence from a number of sources to detect 
fraud. Its policy is not to disclose this as, to do so, could undermine the effectiveness of its 
systems. It addition there could be a number of reasons why a fraud alert is triggered, for 
example  the type of transaction, the amount, the business involved or incorrect information 
being put into the system at some point. An alert doesn't necessarily mean there's been 
fraud or that it's linked to any specific transaction so it isn't able to say precisely what 
triggered it in Mr H's case.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didn't consider Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. He understood Mr H wanted to know more about the cause of the alert but he felt 
Lloyds's explanation as to why it couldn't do so was reasonable. As he didn't feel Lloyds had 
done anything wrong, he wouldn't be asking it to provide more information to Mr H. He 
agreed there'd been a delay in re-ordering a replacement card for Mr H but Lloyds had paid 
Mr H £78 in costs and compensation for this, which he considered to be adequate.
Mr H disagreed and said he didn't feel Lloyds was acting in its customer's interests by 
restricting access to the information about the source of the alert. He considered he had 
a right to know so he could decide if he wanted to continue to use the business involved. 
He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise my decision may come as a disappointment to Mr H but for the reasons set out 
below, I don't uphold his complaint.
I can understand that Mr H was concerned to find there was suspicious activity linked to his 
card and that he'd like to know more about what triggered the alert.
However Lloyds, like all banks, is required to have in place a range of security measures to 
protect its business and customers. This includes systems to identify transactions that might 
pose a risk as well as actual fraud.  That information comes from a number of sources and 
includes both individual concerns or a number of factors that taken together indicate a risk. 
And because those security measures capture a range of data, it's not always possible for a 
bank to say with certainty what triggered an alert on an account. I've seen Lloyds explained 
this to Mr H and I think that explanation was reasonable.
I know Mr H feels that, as a customer, he's entitled to this information so he can make his 
own risk assessment but that has to be balanced against Lloyds' need to keep its security 
measures confidential. For that reason, even if it did have the information, asking it to share 
that with its customers may compromise its own fraud prevention measures and, as such, I 
don't think it was being unreasonable in refusing to share more information than it did.  
I can see Mr H feels he was given misleading information by Lloyds in his calls. I've listened 
to the two calls on the 12th and 19th February and while I agree that the initial explanations 
may not have been as clear as they could have been, I'm satisfied that, in the second call, 
Lloyds did provide a more detailed explanation as to why it couldn't provide more information 
and I think that was reasonable. 
In summary, I realise that Mr H is dissatisfied with Lloyds' explanation but, as set out above, 
I don't consider Lloyds has done anything wrong, so I won't be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman