DRN-3794311
The complaint
Mr F complains that AXIS specialty Europe SE added an exclusion to his policy for malicious 
damage caused by tenants and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr F renewed his commercial property insurance policy with AXIS over the phone on 
26 April 2022  with the renewal due to take effect from 4 May 2022.
When Mr Fs property was maliciously damaged by his tenant, he sought to make a claim 
under the policy. Following some investigation, AXIS said Mr Fs tenant was subject to 
eviction proceedings prior to the renewal of the policy. It said it asked Mr F about this 
specifically, but he failed to disclose it. 
As the renewal was completed in April 2022, and the tenant wasnt evicted until the day the 
renewal went live, AXIS referred the claim to its underwriters to see whether it could be 
covered in the circumstances. But the underwriter maintained the decision to decline the 
claim. This was because if AXIS had known that the tenant was the subject of eviction 
proceedings, it would have removed the malicious damage by tenants cover until Mr F had 
placed a new tenant.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service where it was looked into by one of our 
investigators. She thought it shouldnt be upheld. She acknowledged that Mr F answered the 
questions about eviction proceedings prior to the actual renewal date. But she said Mr F had 
a duty as a commercial customer to disclose material information to AXIS prior to the 
renewal date. She felt Mr F had failed in this duty
Our investigator said the actions AXIS had taken were in line with the remedies set out in the 
appropriate legislation. So, she felt the actions it took were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr F doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
feels AXIS accepted his payment for the renewal and is moving the goalposts in order to 
avoid paying for a valid claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015. This says that as a commercial 
customer, Mr F had a duty to make a fair presentation of risk to the insurer. And this means 
disclosing every material circumstance which the insured knows, or ought to know. Or failing 
that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent insurer on 
notice to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those material circumstances. 
Im aware that Mr F answered the question about eviction proceedings several weeks before 
the notice to quit or eviction notices were served. But the duty of fair presentation applies 
before the contract of insurance is entered into. And in this case, the renewed policy 
(contract) didnt commence until 4 May 2022.
Ive seen evidence that a notice to quit was sent to Mr Fs tenants on 3 May 2022, requiring 
that the tenant should surrender their tenancy by 4 May 2022. Based on this, Im satisfied 
that Mr F was aware of eviction proceedings against his tenant prior to commencement of 
the insurance contract. 
I next need to consider whether Mr F knew, or ought to have known the information was 
material to AXIS. 
I should be clear here that under the Insurance Act 2015, there is no onus on AXIS to ask 
clear questions about every material circumstance. Rather, the onus is on the customer 
(Mr F) to make a fair presentation of the risk. But in this case, AXIS did ask a clear and 
specific question, about eviction proceedings, on 26 April 2022. So, based on this, I consider 
that Mr F ought reasonably to have known that eviction proceedings against his tenant was 
material information he needed to disclose to AXIS.
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that Mr F breached the duty of fair 
presentation by failing to disclose the eviction proceedings against his tenant prior to 
commencement of the contract of insurance.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, there are certain remedies available to insurers in the event 
of a breach of the duty of fair presentation. But only where the insurer can demonstrate that, 
but for the breach, it:
would not have entered into the contract of insurance at all, or
would have done so only on different terms.
A breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the insured is referred to as a qualifying 
breach.
AXIS has provided evidence, in the form of its underwriting criteria, that had it been made 
aware of the eviction proceedings, it would have excluded malicious damage cover. 
Therefore, I consider that Mr F failing to disclose the eviction proceedings to AXIS amounts 
to a qualifying breach under the Insurance Act 2015.
The Insurance Act 2015 explains that a qualifying breach of the duty of fair presentation is 
either:
deliberate or reckless, or
neither deliberate nor reckless.
A qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured 
knew that it was a breach of the duty of fair presentation, or
did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty.
The remedies available to AXIS under the Insurance Act 2015 depend on whether it 
considers the breach of the duty was deliberate or reckless, or neither. And it is for AXIS 
(as the insurer) to show that the breach was deliberate or reckless.The remedies available for a breach that is deliberate or reckless state the insurer 
may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and
need not return any premiums.
AXIS hasnt sought to apply either of the above remedies.
One of the remedies available for a breach that is neither deliberate nor reckless states that 
where an insurer can show it would only have entered into the contract on different terms, it 
is entitled to enter into the contract on those terms it would have offered had the breach not 
happened. This is what AXIS has done in this case by excluding malicious damage by 
tenants cover from the minimum terms. 
So, based on the actions AXIS took, I think its reasonable to conclude that it considers the 
breach to be neither deliberate nor reckless. And as this potentially delivers a more 
favourable outcome for Mr F, I agree that this decision is fair.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the actions taken by AXIS, in adding an 
exclusion to the policy, were in line with the remedies under the Insurance Act 2015 for a 
qualifying breach of the duty which was neither deliberate nor reckless. I also consider that 
adherence to the Insurance Act 2015 delivers a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this claim and complaint.
As explained above, had AXIS known about the eviction proceedings, it would have added 
an exclusion on to the policy for malicious damage caused by tenants. This exclusion would 
have been added on to the policy from the point of the renewal. So, its fair that AXIS assess 
Mr Fs claim with this exclusion taken into consideration. This means that Im also satisfied 
AXIS is acting reasonably by not paying Mr Fs claim for malicious damage caused by 
tenants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman