DRN-3026125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were misled into buying a holiday club membership. 
Because their purchase was financed by a loan from what is now GE Money Consumer 
Lending Limited, they say that it is liable to them along with the selling company.
What happened
In October 2003 Mr and Mrs P applied for membership of a company, V. The seller was a 
company, C, registered in the British Virgin Islands, and it appears that the membership 
was to be represented by the allocation of Points Rights. Mr and Mrs P were to pay 
£10,400 for the membership, which appears to have had many features of a holiday club.
To finance the purchase of the membership, Mr and Mrs P took out a loan with GE Money, 
arranged when they made the purchase. GE Money says the loan was repaid in July 2004. 
In April 2017 a claims management company, T, acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs P, 
complained to GE Money. It said that the contract had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P 
in a number of respects. Because the purchase had been financed with credit provided by 
GE Money, T said that it was liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to 
meet its clients claims. 
GE Money disputed that section 75 could apply; it said the necessary relationships were not 
present. It said too that the effect of the Limitation Act 1980 was that any claims Mr and Mrs 
P might have had would by then be time-barred. 
T referred the matter to this service. In doing so it submitted a 35-page document setting out 
its clients claims. 
One of our investigators considered what T and Mr and Mrs P had said but concluded that 
the claims were likely to be time-barred. It was therefore reasonable of GE Money to decline 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim. T did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have indicated, Ts submissions on behalf of Mr and Mrs P have been quite lengthy and 
wide-ranging. T has indicated that it is acting for several claimants in a similar position to Mr 
and Mrs P and that many of its arguments apply to several or all of them. Unfortunately, that 
means that those arguments are not always specific to Mr and Mrs P, but are to a large 
extent a more general commentary on the structure and operation of the holiday club itself. 
For the reasons I shall explain, however, I do not believe the lack of specificity affects my 
overall conclusions here. 
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. Although 
Mr and Mrs P were, according to the contract, buying membership of V, the sale contract 
was with C and payment was to be made to C. I do not agree  as GE Money argued when 
it received the complaint  that the supplier in this case was V. 
GE Money has suggested as well that section 75 only applies where a court finds that a 
supplier is liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. There is however no 
requirement for a court finding against the supplier. Rather, section 75 applies to a debtor 
who has  any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract Such a debtor shall have a like claim against the creditor who is  jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor. Had the intention been that a creditor should only be liable 
once a court had found a supplier liable, the legislation could have said that. 
It follows that the conditions Ive outlined above did apply and that I must therefore consider 
whether GE Moneys response to the section 75 claim was reasonable. 
Under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation 
cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and 
which induces someone into a contract. T has set out in some detail the various statements 
made to Mr and Mrs P and which led them to agree to buy the holiday club membership. 
They were all made in or about October 2003, so that is the date on which any cause of 
action accrued. 
No claim was made until April 2017, more than thirteen years later. That was more than six 
years from the date on which any cause of action accrued. 
T says however that the effect of sections 11A, 14 and 14A of the Limitation Act is that I 
must also consider the date on which Mr and Mrs P became aware that they had cause for 
complaint. Our own rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint. 
There is no similar general provision in the Limitation Act, however. And I do not believe that 
the provisions T has referred to help Mr and Mrs P:
Section 11A covers actions is respect of damages under Part 1 of the Consumer 
Protection Act 1987. Part 1 of the 1987 Act deals with damage caused by defective 
products. Mr and Mrs P did not buy a product, they bought a service. In any event, 
under section 5, damage means death or personal injury or damage to property.
Section 14 of the Limitation Act defines the date of knowledge in respect of claims 
under sections 11 and 12. They in turn deal with claims for personal injuries and under 
Fatal Accidents legislation. 
Section 14A of the Limitation Act deals with the time limits for certain actions in 
negligence  primarily, latent damage claims where property is damaged but that 
damage remains hidden. 
None of the claims made by Mr and Mrs P can be said to be claims that fall under these headings. If they did, they would not be claims for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
and so would not be covered by section 75 in any event.         
I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made outside 
the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. It follows in my view that it was reasonable for 
GE Money to say that it would not consider the misrepresentation claim under section 75. 
I have reached a similar conclusion in respect of the claim that the credit agreement created 
an unfair relationship. Such a claim must generally be brought within six years of the end of 
the relationship. The loan was repaid in July 2004, but no claim was made until many years 
later. Again, GE Moneys overall response was reasonable in my view.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require GE Money Consumer Lending 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman