DRN-2344135
The complaint
Mrs A complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mrs A is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mrs A 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs A entered a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Finance in April 2019 to acquire a 
used car. She explained that she needed to spend £2,000 on repairs shortly after acquisition 
due to there being several issues including two bald tyres and an oil leak. Mrs A noted the 
car passed a MOT which she didnt think should have happened given the state of the tyres. 
Mrs A asked for payment towards the repair costs as she had a one year warranty but was 
told the dealer wouldnt pay towards repairs by a separate garage. Mrs A explained that she 
had the work carried out at a separate garage as she needed repairs quickly due to needing 
the car for work. 
After the repairs the oil leak remained and Mrs A says the dealer said it would collect the car, 
but months passed, and this didnt happen. Mrs A continued to drive the car as she says she 
was told she could. The dealer then collected the car but after the repairs warning lights 
came on and Mrs A noticed that the car was still leaking oil. An independent inspection was 
carried out which confirmed the oil leak but said the issues were due to wear and tear. Mrs A 
continued to drive the car which then broke down. She tried to take the car to the dealer, but 
it had gone out of business. 
Mrs A believes that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality given the bald tyres and the ongoing 
oil leak. Although she contacted Oodle Finance several times Mrs A says it didnt assist her. 
She has told us that the issues with the car have resulted in her and her husband 
experiencing severe mental illness.
Oodle Finance issued its first final response letter dated 5 September 2019, following Mrs A 
raising a complaint on 12 August 2019. It noted Mrs As comments about needing to replace 
tyres and that Mrs A had taken the car to a local garage. Oodle Finance said that as the 
tyres had been replaced it couldnt say if they were of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Regarding the car going into limp mode and the oil leak, Oodle Finance said that Mrs 
A had confirmed the car had been returned to the dealer for repair. Oodle Finance said that 
it had spoken to the dealer which said the issues were due to an inlet manifold leak and that 
although this was due to wear and tear repairs would be undertaken as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Oodle Finance issued a second final response letter dated 21 November 2019. It recorded 
Mrs As complaint as being about an oil leak and the engine management light coming on 
and said that she had asked to reject the car. Oodle Finance says there were several calls 
with the broker trying to arrange collection by the dealer. In November 2019, the broker said 
it wanted an independent inspection carried out. This took place on 11 November 2019. 
Oodle Finance said that the inspection confirmed the issues were due to wear and tear, but 
the broker had agreed for the car to be returned as the parts were under warranty. Based on 
this Oodle Finance didnt uphold the complaint.
The last final response letter was issued dated 11 March 2020. Mrs A had said that she 
hadnt been contacted by the dealer and that in January 2020 the car had failed. Oodle 
Finance didnt uphold this complaint. It said that the issues with the car were confirmed to be 
due to deterioration from usage and that the dealer had offered to assist but insufficient 
communication meant this didnt happen before it ceased business. Oodle Finance said that 
the issues hadnt been shown to be present from the point of supply and lack of 
communication with the dealer and continued use had contributed to the cars condition.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted the age and mileage of the car at 
acquisition and said it was reasonable it would have suffered some wear and tear. He noted 
the concerns about the MOT carried out in January 2019, but that the car had been driven 
over 6,000 miles between the date of the MOT and acquisition and thought it probable the 
wear had happened in that time. 
Our investigator said the January 2019 MOT didnt note an oil leak and that this wasnt noted 
in the invoice dated 23 April 2019 when other repairs were undertaken. He said the oil leak 
was recorded on 13 May 2019 but the extent of this wasnt noted. The independent 
inspection report said the car was faulty but didnt say if it was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply and noted several repairs had been undertaken. Based on the evidence 
provided, our investigator didnt think he had enough evidence to say the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Following further discussions about the repairs undertaken, our investigator contacted the 
repairing garage but was told the relevant mechanic no longer worked there and a report 
couldnt be provided. Based on this he didnt find he had enough to uphold this complaint.
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators view. She said the invoices had been provided to show 
the work needed shortly after acquisition and reiterated that two of the tyres were bald at the 
time of acquisition even though the car had passed a MOT. She said the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and the issue was causing a great deal of stress and anxiety.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Finance. Under 
the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Oodle Finance can 
be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory 
quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a 
reasonable person would expect taking into account all the circumstances.
Mrs As car was registered in September 2011 and so was over eight years old at 
acquisition. It had been driven over 91,000 miles. Therefore, it is reasonable to accept that it 
would have suffered some wear and tear. It is also possible that issues can arise on used 
cars shortly after acquisition even if they arent present at the point of supply.
Mrs A has explained she needed to spend around £2,000 on repairs in the first month of 
having the car. I have looked at the evidence provided of the repairs. There is an invoice 
dated 23 April 2019. This was only a week after acquisition and the car had been driven 
around 500 miles. I can see that a fault was identified, and repairs carried to clear a blocked filter and Mrs A was told to return the car if the issue continued. The fault codes were 
cleared at this time.
 
When a fault is identified within the first 30 days which means the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, a consumer can in certain circumstances, under CRA 2015, have a short term right 
to reject the car. In this case, Mrs A didnt contact the dealer or finance company about this 
and instead had repairs carried out at her local garage. I understand why she did this but as 
she didnt raise the issue with the dealer, or Oodle Finance I do not find I can say that Oodle 
Finance is liable for these costs.
On 13 May 2019, Mrs A returned the car to her local garage due to an issue with the 
electronic handbrake. The car had been driven around 1,000 miles since Mrs A had acquired 
it. At this time the handbrake was repaired, new brake pads and discs and two new tyres 
were provided along with associated parts and work. I can understand why Mrs A is upset by 
these issues and I note her comment about the tyres being bald at acquisition and this 
raising concerns about the MOT carried out before this time. However, I also note that Mrs A 
signed the pre delivery inspection document confirming she had test driven the car and was 
satisfied with it. Given this I do not find I can say that the tyres werent of satisfactory quality 
at acquisition and I can see Mrs A drove around 1,000 miles before the tyres were replaced. 
While I can see the brake discs and pads were replaced and there was a repair to the 
handbrake, these are serviceable items and given the age and mileage of the car at 
acquisition and that the car had been driven 1,000 miles by Mrs A, I do not find I have 
enough to say the issues raised and repaired at this time were due to faults present from the 
point of supply rather than wear and tear.
In the invoice dated 13 May 2019, there is mention of an oil leak from under the car. In June 
2019, the car was returned to Mrs As garage because of the oil leak. The issue was 
investigated, and repairs undertaken, and Mrs A told to monitor the situation. By this time, 
she had driven the car around 1,500 miles. 
I understand that experiencing issues with a car so soon after acquisition would cause stress 
and upset, and I am very sorry to hear of the distress Mrs A and her husband have been 
caused by the car at a time when they also had other distressing personal issues to deal 
with. I do not underestimate how this issue has affected them and I am very sorry to hear of 
the distress and anxiety that has been caused.
However, for me to uphold this complaint I must be satisfied that there were issues present 
at the point of supply that meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. I also need to be 
satisfied these issues are ongoing. An independent inspection report took place in 
November 2019, by which time Mrs A had covered around 3,600 miles in the car. This 
confirmed an oil leak around the rear differential area and noted the warning lights. However, 
it said the faults were most likely due to wear and tear and unsuccessful repairs. On further 
questioning, the inspector said there was no compelling evidence to say the issues were 
present at the point of supply. The inspector further said that an oil leak from the rear 
differential would be considered a deterioration related issue which could have developed in 
the 3,600 miles covered. Based on this I do not find that I have enough to say the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable and instead it appears the issues are more likely than not due to wear 
and tear.
Therefore, while it is clear there are issues with the car Mrs A acquired, as she undertook 
repairs in the first few weeks with a third party garage and the subsequent issues have been 
suggested to be due to wear and tear or failed repairs, I do not find I have enough evidence 
to say that the ongoing issues Mrs A is experiencing with her car are due to faults that were 
present or developing at the point of supply. Therefore, I do not find I have enough evidence to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not have enough evidence to uphold this complaint against 
Oodle Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman