DRN-3347726
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank plc acted irresponsibly when it provided him with a loan 
and then increased the loan amount a few months later.
What happened
Mr H says Lloyds offered him a loan in September 2018. The loan amount was £7,000. He 
says at that time he already had an overdrawn current account and a credit card account 
with Lloyds. He says that less than six months later, Lloyds offered him a further £6,000.
Mr H says he shouldnt have been offered these loans. He says he was in financial 
difficulties and Lloyds shouldve been aware of this. He had already agreed special 
measures with another credit card provider. As a result of what happened he says he had to 
take payday loans to cover the payments to Lloyds. The matter has impacted negatively on 
his mental health. He complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds investigated his complaint. It said that when making its decision to lend to Mr H it 
used information it held on its records and information it collected from credit reference 
agencies. It used this information to determine Mr Hs credit score. Lloyds said Mr H had told 
it about his income and expenditure. It used that information together with the other 
information it collected to satisfy itself that he could afford to repay the amount borrowed. It 
said there was no evidence of non-affordability.
Mr H didnt agree. He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She thought there was no indication from Mr Hs 
credit file that special measures were in place with another lender. The credit file showed 
that Mr H had been meeting his financial commitments on time and there was no adverse 
information recorded.
Our investigator did think that Lloyds shouldve made additional checks before granting the 
credit to Mr H. She looked at Mr Hs current account for the period prior to the loan being 
granted. She wasnt provided with full details about how much money each month was being 
used for essential expenditure because Mr H had made transfers to other accounts. He 
hadnt been able to provide statements for those other bank accounts. So, she said she 
couldnt be satisfied that even if Lloyds had carried out proportionate checks its attention 
wouldve been drawn to the financial difficulty Mr H said he was experiencing.
Mr H didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has complained about two loans that Lloyds provided to him: 
September 2018 - £7000
 January 2019  (previous loan repaid) new loan for £12,417
When considering Mr Hs complaint, Ive looked firstly at the checks which 
Lloyds carried out before granting the loans. Lloyds is required under the 
relevant regulations to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that the borrowing can be repaid in a sustainable way.
Lloyds says it carried out checks with credit reference agencies. That gave it 
a picture of any other credit commitments Mr H had at the time and also what 
his repayment record was. Mr H provided us with a copy of his credit 
reference report. The report is dated March 2021  so it doesnt give us a full 
picture of everything that mightve been on Mr Hs credit file at the date when 
the first loan was applied for.
Ive looked at the credit file provided and I can see evidence of other credit 
commitments with a number of lenders at the date that the first and second 
loans were granted. But I dont see any evidence of any adverse information 
reported  apart from the instance that Mr H has told us about. Hes referred 
us to a credit card account he had with another lender. He says it was in 
special measures from 2017.
I can see details of that credit card on his credit file. There had been missed 
payments in 2016, but theres also evidence that since that time regular 
repayments were being made and the debt was reducing. The account hadnt 
been defaulted. So, I dont think that the record about the credit card with the 
other provider, on its own, wouldve been enough to mean that Lloyds 
shouldnt have granted the loans.
Ive then considered the other information Lloyds held about Mr H on its own 
records. He had a current account with it which had an agreed overdraft. So, 
Ive looked at the operation of that account in the period prior to the date 
when each loan was granted.
There is evidence throughout the period of regular weekly payments into the 
account. So, Lloyds wouldve been able to rely on this information as 
evidence of Mr Hs income. Mr H says he transferred funds from his current 
account to other bank accounts. He then used those other accounts to pay for 
his day to day expenses.
It isnt always necessary for a lender to ask for proof of expenditure. It can 
use statistical models to work out what a borrowers expenditure is likely to 
be. Lloyds says thats what it did for Mr H and based on that model it was 
satisfied there was sufficient disposable income each month to repay the 
loans. Ive considered whether that was a fair and reasonable approach given 
the other information Lloyds had.
Ive noted that during the three-month period prior to the first loan being 
granted the current account had been overdrawn  with no swings to credit 
despite the regular weekly credits. Ive also noted that there was a high 
frequency of gambling transactions in June, July and August 2018  which all 
added up to a fairly large amount relative to Mr Hs income and the amount of 
his overdraft. Although theres no evidence Mr H told Lloyds he had a 
problem with gambling, I think the operation of the current account in the three month period prior to the first loan was enough to have put it on notice 
that further checks were required here and that it wasnt proportionate to rely 
only on the statistical modelling. Ill comment further below about whether I 
think that might have led to a different outcome.
Ive then looked at whether the position had changed before the second loan 
was granted. I can see that repayments were being made, on time, each 
month to repay the first loan. The current account remained mainly in a credit 
position during the period up to January 2019 with only some usage of the 
overdraft from time to time. There were regular swings to credit. Ive also 
noted that in the three-month period prior to the second loan being granted 
theres no evidence that the current account was being used to fund gambling 
transactions. And, theres no evidence of any adverse information being 
reported at credit reference agencies on any of his other accounts.
Having considered everything here, Im not currently persuaded that even if 
Lloyds had carried out additional checks before the loans were granted, it 
wouldve decided not to proceed. Ill explain why.
When thinking about whether additional checks wouldve meant Lloyds 
wouldnt have proceeded with the loans, I have taken into account the 
subsequent repayment history for both loans. As I mentioned above the first 
loan was repaid in line with the agreement. The second loan was also repaid 
in line with the agreement for over a year after the date it was granted. 
Although I can see missed payments in June 2019 and August 2019, all other 
repayments were made each month on time right up to around April 2020  
some 15 months after the second loan was drawn down. So, although Mr H 
thinks Lloyds shouldve known that the loans were unaffordable, I havent 
found any evidence to show that, in practice, he couldnt afford the 
repayments. As Ive said he continued to make the payments until around 
April 2020.
Ive also looked at the conduct of Mr Hs current account in the period after 
the second loan was granted. I can see the account did go overdrawn from 
time to time in 2019 and 2020 - but there were still regular credits to the 
account. And, although there were some gambling transactions  these were 
infrequent and for small amounts relative to Mr Hs income.
I can see evidence of credits to the current account which appear to be the 
proceeds of borrowing from other sources. But, having looked at the 
information on Mr Hs credit report, I havent seen any evidence of adverse 
information being reported on any of this other borrowing in the period right 
up to the date of the credit report hes provided  March 2021. If, as Mr H 
says, the loans he was granted by Lloyds were unaffordable, Id have 
expected to see evidence of this soon after the loans were granted in the 
conduct of his current account or the accounts he held with other lenders.
So, Im not currently persuaded, on balance, on the basis of what Ive seen 
that had Lloyds carried out additional checks at the time the loans were 
granted it wouldve decided the loans were unaffordable.
Having looked at everything Im not currently satisfied Lloyds acted 
irresponsibly or unfairly when it granted the loans to Mr H. I dont intend to 
require it to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add.
Mr H also responded to my provisional decision. He didnt accept what Id provisionally 
decided. He said:
Lloyds knew hed had an arranged overdraft with it for over five years and hadnt 
paid it back. He says that means Lloyds shouldve known he couldnt repay the 
loan.
Lloyds shouldve carried out further checks when the second loan was granted. 
He says if it had done that it wouldve realised that the second loan was not 
affordable.
Hed borrowed £13,000 over a four-month period, and he gambled. He says this 
means he wasnt in control.
Between September 2018 and January 2019, he hadnt mainly been in credit. He 
says there were more times he was in overdraft, rather than in credit, during that 
four-month period.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the comments Mr H made in response to my provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I did make reference to the conduct of the current account. I noted  
there was an arranged overdraft on the account. Mr H says because that arranged overdraft 
hadnt been repaid during the previous five year period, Lloyds shouldnt have granted him 
the loan.
The overdraft on Mr Hs current account was an arranged overdraft. An overdraft is 
repayable on demand. Theres no evidence Lloyds had demanded repayment of the 
overdraft during the previous five year period. In the absence of a demand Mr H wouldnt 
have been required to repay the overdraft. Ive noted that in the period prior to the first and 
second loans, thered been regular credits to the current account and, apart from a small 
number of occasions, the account was operated within the agreed limit. So, I dont think the 
fact the account had an arranged overdraft for a lengthy period of time, would, of itself, mean 
Lloyds shouldnt have granted Mr H a loan.
In my provisional decision, I said that I thought Lloyds shouldve carried out additional 
checks before the first loan was granted. I referred to the information Lloyds wouldve had 
about the operation of the current account and the gambling transactions on it. But, after 
considering everything, I said that I didnt think, even if it had carried out additional checks, 
Lloyds wouldve decided the loans were unaffordable. I referred to the operation of the 
current account after the second loan was granted. And, I also took into account Mr Hs 
credit file. 
Mr H has commented about the operation of the current account during the period after the 
first loan was granted and before the second loan was made available to him. He says his 
account was more often in overdraft than in credit during that period. It is the case that the arranged overdraft remained in place after September 2018. The 
account did remain in credit, apart from a small number of days, throughout October and 
November 2018. The overdraft started to be used more frequently in December 2018. But 
there were still regular credits being made to the account. And, although Mr H was using the 
overdraft, there were swings back to credit in both December 2018 and January 2019. The 
account remained within the arranged overdraft limit. I also noted there was no evidence the 
current account was being used to fund gambling transactions in the three-month period 
prior to the second loan being granted.
Having looked at the operation of the current account again, during the period between the 
first and second loan, I havent changed my view. Im not persuaded Mr H operated the 
account in a way that shouldve caused Lloyds to refuse to grant him a further loan.
Mr H hasnt commented on what I said in my provisional decision about his credit report. 
There was no evidence of adverse information being reported right up to the date of the 
credit report he provided to us (March 2021). If, as he says, the loans he was granted by 
Lloyds were unaffordable, Id have expected to see evidence of this soon after the loans 
were granted. He was able, apart from two missed payments, to make the regular 
repayments on the second loan up to April 2020 (15 months after it was made available to 
him). And, despite other borrowing, his credit report shows no evidence of adverse 
information being reported on any of his other borrowing in the period up to March 2021. 
Having thought about everything again, although I know it will disappoint Mr H, I havent 
changed my view. Im not persuaded Lloyds acted irresponsibly or unfairly when it granted 
the loans to him. I dont require it to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman