DRN-2978913
The complaint
Mrs W complains that a finance agreement brokered by Guy Salmon Limited, trading as Guy 
Salmon Jaguar Stockport (Guy Salmon) was misrepresented to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
If Mrs W was given false information that led her to enter into an agreement she would not 
have otherwise entered into I would think the agreement had been misrepresented to her 
and Id ask Guy Salmon, who brokered the deal, to take some action.
I understand that Mrs W was surprised and disappointed to find that the negative equity in 
the car she had part exchanged had been included in the amount she was paying to finance 
her new car. I dont doubt that Mrs W hadnt understood what was covered by the 
agreement, but I have to consider if Guy Salmon had misrepresented the finance and Im 
afraid I dont think they did.
Mrs W says she wasnt told that negative equity was being financed and Guy Salmon 
dispute that. Its difficult to clarify exactly what was said during the sales meetings so Ive 
looked at the documentation that Mrs W signed to see if that clarified things.
Section A3 of the hire purchase agreement sets out the cost of the new car, the interest rate 
and the charge for credit. This section doesnt include the negative equity from the previous 
agreement. Mrs W says that this section suggests this is all shell pay for the car, but I dont 
think thats a reasonable assessment of the document. I dont think the negative equity 
charge is hidden its explained just a few lines later.
Details of any extras to be financed are listed in section A5. In that section the part 
exchange shortfall of £9,674.91 is itemised. So, I think the fact that negative equity was 
being financed was clear in the hire purchase agreement and I think its reasonable to 
expect Mrs W to have read and understood the details of the agreement before signing it.
The used non-qualifying purchase invoice for Mrs Ws part exchange, details that negative 
equity and, whilst I understand Mrs W cant remember signing that document, Im persuaded 
on balance that its likely to be her signature and that she was therefore made aware of the 
negative equity in her part exchange.
And I can also see that negative equity accounted for when calculating the net total due on 
the sales invoice. Whilst its not in bold, I dont think that calculation is hidden; its on the 
front page.
I understand that Mrs W thinks the documentation was unclear and misleading. I understand 
the documentation was complicated by the addition of the part exchange, but I think the 
calculations being applied and the presence of negative equity in those calculations was 
clear. I dont think Guy Salmon needed to make things any clearer and I dont think they 
were compelled, for instance, to put a minus figure in front of the part exchange shortfall; I 
think the fact it was listed as a shortfall was sufficient. 
Mrs W has suggested Guy Salmon should have provided the balance of the account in their 
welcome letter and that it was unreasonable of them to expect a consumer to calculate that 
balance from the details provided. That document was provided after the finance had been 
signed; it wasnt something Mrs W considered when agreeing to the contract and therefore 
couldnt reasonably be considered to have misrepresented it. I understand that Mrs Ws 
point is that it was yet another document that didnt make things clear enough but, as Ive 
explained, I dont agree.
Mrs W says the signing of the documents was rushed and she didnt get to read all of the 
them in sufficient detail. Ive looked at the timescales involved. It appears the business first 
contacted Mrs W about the exchange in August 2019 and the documents were completed at 
the end of September that year. So, it seems there was adequate time given for Mrs W to 
understand the transaction. I note that the contract was electronically signed and that 
suggests Mrs W signed it from home and would therefore have been likely to have sufficient 
time to absorb the details.
Mrs W is also disappointed that she was never given details of the promised new service 
plan that Guy Salmon said would be forthcoming. Thats not something that formed part of 
the regulated finance agreement. Im only able to consider Guy Salmons actions in relation 
to that regulated agreement. Ive thought about whether the promise of a future service plan 
could fairly be considered to have persuaded Mrs W to take out the regulated finance 
agreement. But I dont think that is likely as I think its reasonable to suggest Mrs W would 
have been aware she could arrange servicing elsewhere if a new plan wasnt forthcoming.
Ive considered Mrs Ws suggestion that I ask the business to take the car back when she 
has paid half of the agreement. I know it will disappoint her but as Im not persuaded Guy 
Salmon have done anything wrong here Im not going to be asking them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman