DRN-3475864
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the way in which Nationwide Building Society handled her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr H purchased a cooker from an online supplier and paid with his 
Nationwide card.
After around 18 months Mr H noticed rust on the cooker. He contacted the manufacturer 
under the warranty, but his claim was rejected because the manufacturer thought the way in 
which Mr H had cleaned the cooker was the cause of the rust.
Mr H raised a section 75 claim with Nationwide. Nationwide reviewed the claim and 
accepted that there was a fault with the cooker. However, it said there wasnt enough 
evidence to show that the issue was caused by an inherent defect. Nationwide said that the 
cost of obtaining an independent report would be disproportionate and instead offered half 
the value of the claim, taking into account the fact that Mr H had used the cooker for 3 years 
and that the expected lifespan of the cooker was 6 years.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He feels that the 
lifespan of the cooker was 13 years and that he should receive increased compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he understood that it would have been 
frustrating for Mr H to be asked to send in information in support of his claim more than 
once, but said he thought Nationwide had acted reasonably by offering an apology for this. 
In relation to the section 75 claim itself, the investigator said Nationwide was entitled to 
reduce the settlement to reflect the usage of an item.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that in a previous complaint about an item which was faulty, 
Nationwide had accepted that white goods had an average life span of 13 years and had 
paid the amount he had requested. He also said that in that case, Nationwide had accepted 
his photos as evidence that the item had deteriorated prematurely.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against the supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Hs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract, and that Nationwides response to the claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The 
quality of goods includes their general state and condition, as well as other things including 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and 
durability. If goods arent of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, then a breach of 
contract can be said to have occurred.
Nationwide has accepted that theres a fault with the cooker but says there isnt enough 
evidence to show that theres an inherent defect. Notwithstanding this, Nationwide has 
accepted the section 75 claim and offered a settlement which included a deduction for 
usage.
Its up to the consumer  in this case Mr H  to show that the cooker isnt of satisfactory 
quality. I agree that the costs of obtaining an independent inspection would be 
disproportionate in this case. That being the case, I think Nationwide has acted very fairly in 
accepting the claim without any expert evidence.
The nub of this dispute is in relation to the settlement amount. Nationwides offer has been 
calculated on a pro rata basis, taking into account the estimated lifespan of the cooker, and 
the length of time Mr H has owned it. A business is allowed to make a deduction for usage. 
Theres nothing in the relevant legislation which says exactly how this should be done. Im 
not in a position to say what the lifespan of the cooker should be. Im only able to look at 
whether Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably in response to the section 75 claim. As 
Ive said, I think Nationwide has been very fair to Mr H in accepting the claim without expert 
evidence to show that the cooker isnt of satisfactory quality. In the circumstances, I dont 
think Nationwides pro rata offer to settle the claim is unreasonable, and I wont be asking 
them to increase it.
I appreciate that Mr H feels that the way in which a previous complaint about white goods 
was resolved sets a precedent for this case. I dont agree that a precedent has been set. 
This service decides every case on its own set of facts and circumstances. So, whilst some 
cases may have similarities, no two cases are the same.
I understand that Mr H was unhappy about the way Nationwide handled his claim. I can see 
that there were some issues with the paperwork and that Mr H was asked to supply some 
documents more than once. Nationwide has apologised for this. In the circumstances, I think 
the apology was sufficient and I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further about this 
aspect of the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman