DRN-2186942
The complaint
Miss I complains that she was supplied with a faulty car by Arval UK Limited (Arval) and 
wants compensation for loss, distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Miss I complained that the brand-new car supplied under her hire agreement with Arval was 
faulty. It was taken in for repairs several times shortly after she received the car at the start 
of 2020. Sometimes the faults left her concerned for her and her familys safety. She was 
supplied with courtesy cars but these werent always available when needed and at least 
one was in a very dirty condition. She had difficulty dealing with Arval as staff were working 
from home. Arval agreed to the rejection of the car but she hoped to be offered a 
replacement. Arval couldnt provide one that she wanted and/or at a price that was 
acceptable. She said prices had gone up since her original agreement so she couldnt get 
the same terms again. She also said Arval had done a further credit search and she felt this 
was affecting her credit record and ability to get another car finance agreement with other 
companies.
Arval said it had accepted the rejection of the car. It arranged to refund the advance rental, 
suspended all lease payments from May 2020 (the car was retuned in August 2020), and 
said it would update her credit records to remove the recent search.
The Investigator said she thought Arval needed to do more. She said the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. She felt rejection of the car was the correct outcome 
in the circumstances. However she felt Miss I had suffered distress in needing to take the 
car to the garage several times and needing to make several calls before the car was 
rejected. She also had delays in getting a courtesy car. She didnt think Arval could be held 
liable for failing to provide a replacement vehicle. She didnt think Miss I had suffered loss 
due to the price increases and didnt think Arval should be responsible for this as it was 
outside of its control. Arval had confirmed it would arrange for the record of the credit search 
to be removed from her file. 
The investigator said Arval should unwind the hire agreement, refund the advance rental 
with interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of payment to the date of settlement, 
remove the information Arval had put on Miss Is credit file and pay £100 for trouble and 
upset.
Miss I said she didnt agree. She felt £100 was a disgrace given her family and work 
circumstances, loss of transport, and impact on her credit score. She also felt Arval had not 
treated her well. They had only called once in over four months of problems.
Arval agreed the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute between Arval and Miss I, that the vehicle wasnt of the required 
standard. So I dont need to consider this aspect further. The outstanding issues between 
the parties relate to the actions that should be taken to compensate Miss I for any financial 
loss and any distress and inconvenience.
Given the problems with the car I think rejection of the car was reasonable. I note that while 
the car had faults, Miss I still had some use of it during the time of the agreement. So I think 
it is reasonable that she makes some payment. I note also that she wasnt required to make 
payments after May and the car was returned in August. In addition her advance rental was 
refunded and Miss I has confirmed simple interest of 8% per annum simple has also been 
paid on that amount. So I think this is fair and reasonable compensation for her financial loss 
due to the faults with the car and needing to return it but reflecting the fact she had some 
use of the car.
I note that Miss I says Arval wasnt able to supply a replacement car acceptable to her. I 
think it was reasonable to expect Arval to offer alternatives, which it did. However due to the 
circumstances at the time there was limited availability, and none were suitable for Miss I. So 
I think Arval has done what is reasonable to expect in these circumstances even though it 
didnt result in a replacement car.
I note also that the contract prices had increased. I can understand Miss I feels that through 
no fault of her own she has lost the benefit of a better deal than is now available. I note that 
the price increase is at least in part due to increases in road tax and car prices, which is 
outside the control of Arval. So I dont think I can reasonably make an award for this. I can 
however consider the impact on her when considering an award for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Miss I complained about her credit record but has since confirmed this has been updated 
save for an entry made in December 2019 which hadnt been removed. Arval said the 
December search record was a genuine search and pre dated the agreement so couldnt be 
removed. Credit records should reflect the true position. As this was a search validly 
completed before she had the car and before the circumstances of this complaint, I think it is 
reasonable to accept it was validly completed so cannot be removed.
I can understand that Miss I was disappointed. The brand-new car she hoped to enjoy 
wasnt of the required quality and she has suffered distress and inconvenience. I think she 
has suffered in many ways including due to loss of use, time in chasing the company and 
taking the car for repair, stress in resolving issues around its return and credit records and 
disappointment in not being able to get a suitable replacement. I note that Arval paid Miss I 
£300 at an earlier stage of this complaint. Taking that into account I think a further payment 
of £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct that Arval UK limited should pay Miss I a further £100 in 
addition to the payments made already.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Arval UK limited should pay Miss I a further £100 in 
addition to the payments made already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman