DRN-1209771
 
The complaint
Miss J complains about the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) 
following what she feels has been a series of fraudulent transactions carried out on her 
account. She also complains that she was spoken to rudely by a call handler at Halifax when 
she was discussing the matter. 
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Miss J and Halifax so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
Around 250 transactions took place on Miss Js account between February 2019 and June 
2019, the value of which was many hundreds of pounds, and which Miss J didnt authorise. 
Miss J went into hospital in March 2019. Halifax had sent Miss J a new card following 
another earlier incident of fraud and for which she believed her former partner (X) was 
responsible.  She believes that in relation to this most recent fraud X managed to intercept 
her post, get hold of the new card and was then responsible for the spending. 
Halifax looked into the matter but said that looking at the type and pattern of spending, there 
was no evidence to say that it wasnt Miss J who had used the card. In addition, they thought 
that she had been negligent with her security details and as she had accessed her account 
online during the relevant period she would have seen the disputed transactions, but had not 
gone on to raise it as an issue. As such Halifax declined to refund Miss J as she  had 
requested.
Miss J was unhappy with Halifaxs response and so the investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly. As Miss J didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. Im not the industry regulator, and I dont have power 
to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change their processes, or punish 
them. That is for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I will consider whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss J. I aim to 
address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
So, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. I have noted that Miss J has had two 
previous fraud incidents on her account both alleging that X was responsible. These were in 
September 2018 and January 2019 and were for not insubstantial sums of £892 and £1,100 
respectively. It is more than likely that those two incidents would have put Miss J on notice, 
meaning she would be on heightened alert to the potential for it happening again. That is 
relevant because it means she is more likely to have paid more attention to her account to 
ensure fraud didn't happen.
The evidence shows that the new card was sent to Miss J on the 31 January which was a 
good month before she went into hospital. Whilst Miss J asserts the card was intercepted by 
X, on balance, as she was at home during February, it is more likely than not that she 
received it. I know Miss J says X had a key to her property, but that would mean that for X to 
get hold of the card Miss J would have had to have had her post delivered at a time she was 
not in, and then for X to get into her house, take the card, and leave before Miss J returned. 
Although possible, it is an unlikely scenario.
Looking at the disputed transactions, in February the card usage is very much the same as it 
was previously, which suggests that it was Miss J who was using the card during February. 
Looking at the transactions from March onwards, Miss J says she was not using her account 
then, because she used another. Although Miss J has been invited to provide evidence of 
this other account and its use, she has not.
Miss J also confirmed to our investigator that her banking app login is by way of thumbprint. 
There was regular access to her account during the relevant period and she confirmed that 
she made online transfers to other accounts and received transfers into her account.
So looking at all of this evidence in the round, I think it is unlikely that X has used the card as 
alleged. I also think that when Miss J logged in on multiple occasions she would most 
certainly have seen the balance on her account was depleted and/or that there were multiple 
transactions taking place which she had not authorised. I do not think it likely that she would 
have been unaware of her account status, especially as she had been the recent victim of 
fraud.
With regard to the call of which Miss J complains, and whilst I can accept that she perceives 
the call handler was rude to her, objectively having listened to it I cannot agree. In my view 
the call handler remained polite at all times when dealing with Miss J.
So, although Miss J will probably be disappointed with my decision, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. So I cant say Halifax have acted unfairly and Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman