DRN-1348365
The complaint
Mr M complains Caversham Finance Limited didn't provide him with redemption figures for 
his hire purchase agreements when he asked for them.
What happened
Mr M bought two household items under hire purchase agreements with Caversham in 
March and April 2019. He was making weekly payments towards them.
In July 2019 Mr M tried to call Caversham, but their lines were closed. So he wrote to them 
complaining about this and asked for redemption figures for both agreements. Mr M has told 
us that at that time he didn't know if he could afford to pay off the items in full. So he needed 
the redemption figures to decide whether he'd make a full or partial payment.
Caversham acknowledged Mr M's complaint and let him know they were looking into his 
concerns. Shortly after this, Mr M stopped making the weekly payments under his 
agreement. He told us he did this because he didn't want to continue making payments 
towards the interest applied to his accounts. This triggered Caversham to make visits to Mr 
M's home to discuss the arrears.
Caversham wasn't able to investigate Mr M's complaint within eight weeks. So they told him 
he could bring his complaint to our service - which he did. But Caversham did issue a final 
response letter after this once they'd completed their investigations. In this they explained 
the total amounts owed under Mr M's agreements. They also told Mr M he would need to 
contact one of their stores if he wanted to pay off his agreements early. Caversham 
acknowledged they shouldn't have tried to discuss Mr M's complaint over the phone when he 
asked for a response in writing. And they offered him £20 in recognition of this. Mr M 
remained unhappy and wanted us to continue dealing with his complaint.
Our investigator didn't think Mr M's complaint should be upheld. She said Mr M hadn't used 
the correct channels to obtain his redemption figures. So she didn't think Caversham had 
acted unfairly by not providing them. Our investigator also didn't think Caversham had been 
unreasonable when they tried to contact Mr M about his missing payments.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. He said he remained unhappy Caversham didn't reply 
to his complaint within eight weeks. He also didn't think we should have considered the 
information provided by Caversham because they sent it to us after the deadline we'd set. 
And in regard to the redemption figure, he reiterated that he contacted 
Caversham's customer relations department because he didn't know if he could afford a full 
or partial payment.
Our investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion on Mr M's case. So it was passed 
to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Taking everything into consideration, I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he wanted, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
Considering the information provided by Caversham
When we agree to investigate a complaint, we will ask the financial business involved to 
send us information about that particular complaint. And when we do that, we give the 
financial business a timeframe in which to send it to us. In Mr M's complaint, 
Caversham sent us the information after the deadline we had set. And because of this, Mr M 
says we shouldn't take this information into consideration.
It's important that I make it clear at the outset that our service considers complaints in line 
with the rules that govern us, and they're set by the Financial Conduct Authority. There's 
nothing in those rules that says we must not consider information provided by either party 
to a complaint if it is provided after the informal deadline we've set. I should also add that it's 
for our service, not the consumer or financial business, to decide what information we'll 
consider and the weight to put on it. 
Having reviewed everything provided by Mr M and Caversham, I've not seen any reason for 
me not to take everything into account before reaching my final decision. And I consider it 
was necessary for me to do this to reach a fair outcome on Mr M's complaint.
Redemption figures
Mr M is unhappy Caversham hasn't provided him with the redemption figures for his two 
accounts despite him attempting to request this over the phone, and in writing.
Mr M wanted to find out how much it would cost to repay his agreements early. But he 
wasn't sure if he would be able to do so in full, or in part. In July, he called 
Caversham before 6pm, but their lines were closed. So he followed this up with an email 
requesting redemption figures, but Caversham didn't provide them.
I've seen copies of Mr M's hire purchase agreements, and they detail how customers can 
obtain redemption figures. And the process differs depending on whether a customer wants 
pay of their agreement early in full or in part.
The agreements say that if a customer wants the pay off the agreement in full, they need to 
contact their local store to get a redemption figure. But if they only want to pay off part of the 
amount owed, then the customer should contact Caversham's customer relations 
department.
Mr M wasn't sure if he could afford to pay off the agreements in full until he found out what 
the redemption figures would be. So I consider a reasonable way forward would have been 
for him to contact his dedicated store for the full early repayment figure.
Caversham has told us Mr M's local store is open 10am to 5pm Monday Friday. And 9am to 
5.30pm on Saturdays. But I've not seen anything to suggest Mr M contacted his store for the 
redemption figure during those hours. Caversham has explained (and this is confirmed in Mr 
M's hire purchase agreements) that the hire purchase agreements are administered by their 
local stores. And only they can calculate the redemption figures for full early repayment. Mr 
M has said he often works during the opening hours of his local stores. However, his 
agreements say that he can request the redemption figures by writing to his local store 
directly. I've not seen any evidence that shows Mr M contacted his local store during their 
opening hours, or in writing. And it's for this reason that I can't say Caversham treated him 
unfairly by not sending the redemption figures for full early repayment of his agreements.As mentioned above, Caversham's customer relations department can provide redemption 
figures for partial early repayment. And his agreements say customers need to request this 
over the phone or by post.
Caversham's customer relations department is open 9am to  3pm, Monday to Friday. But on 
Wednesday's they're open until 4pm. I can't see that Mr M called Caversham during those 
opening hours for a partial early repayment figure. And I've also not seen that he sent this 
request by post. So again, I've not persuaded Mr M followed the correct process to get the 
information he wanted.
Caversham sent us all the documents Mr M would have gone through when buying his 
appliances. And this includes a document called "EXPLANATORY NOTES". This document 
draws attention to important parts of the hire purchase agreements. I've seen Mr M wrote his 
initials next to each of part of the agreement highlighted in this document, and that includes 
the part that says:
"EARLY REPAYMENT
You may make early repayment, either in full or in part at any time. To do so you will have to 
give us express notice that is what you are doing and follow the procedure set out on the 
front page of the Agreement."
This information persuades me Mr M ought to have known what steps to follow to get the 
relevant redemption figures. As Mr M didn't follow the correct process, I'm not persuaded 
Caversham acted unreasonably when they didn't provide the redemption figures.
Caversham's handling of Mr M's complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Caversham's overall handling of his complaint.
When a complaint is raised, in most cases a financial business has eight weeks to provide 
their final response. This timeframe was set by the Financial Conduct Authority. Mr M 
wanted a response from Caversham around two weeks after he first complained. So I can't 
say Caversham treated him unfairly when they didn't meet his deadline - as they weren't 
obliged to do so.
Having said that, I understand why Mr M would have been frustrated when Caversham didn't 
issue their final response within the eight weeks. But before this timeframe expired, I was 
pleased to see Caversham updated Mr M and let him know it was taking them longer than 
anticipated to complete their investigation. They also did the right thing by telling Mr M he 
could bring his complaint to our service on the same day the eight week timeframe ended. 
While not getting a final response would have been disappointing for Mr M, Caversham 
didn't delay in letting him know how he could progress his complaint. And that was the right 
thing to do.
 
 
When Mr M first complained, he clearly explained that he only wanted to be contacted by 
email. However, Caversham still attempted to call him on a number of occasions. 
Caversham should have noted and followed Mr M's communication preferences. So I'm not 
surprised this added to Mr M's concerns at that time.Caversham's final response letter acknowledged their mistake in calling Mr M. And they 
offered him £20 in recognition of this. It would have been frustrating for Mr M to receive 
those calls. And £20 is along the lines of what I would have awarded if Caversham hadn't 
already identified their mistake. So I won't be asking Caversham to do anything further to put 
things right in relation to this aspect of Mr M's complaint. 
Caversham defaulting Mr M's accounts
Shortly after raising his complaint with Caversham, Mr M stopped making payments towards 
both of his accounts. He said he did this because he didn't want to continue paying the 
interest under his agreements. That was because he expected some interest to be removed 
when he obtained a redemption figure.
Mr M has two hire purchase agreements. And they explain the weekly amounts he's 
obligated to pay for the household items he bought. From the information I've seen, it 
appears Mr M still has possession of these items. And I've not seen anything in his 
agreements that says a customer can stop making payments if they raise a complaint 
against Caversham - or if they're unhappy with the level of service Caversham has provided. 
I appreciate Mr M was disappointed with the service he had received from Caversham. 
However, I don't consider stopping payments towards the goods he continues to have use 
of, to be a reasonable response to this.
Mr M isn't happy Caversham sent agents to his home to discuss his arrears - although he 
wasn't in on any of those occasions. Mr M says he now feels uncomfortable answering his 
door due to these visits. Caversham's agents left calling cards after each visit, encouraging 
Mr M to contact them. And having seen the information on these cards, I don't consider the 
content was threatening - or unpleasant. So I consider Mr M could have avoided the stress 
he's experienced by making his contractual repayments, or by speaking to Caversham if he's 
having financial difficulties and may struggle to clear the arrears. As Mr M hasn't done this, 
I'm persuaded Caversham did the right thing by continuing to reach out to him to find out 
what was happening and move things forward.
As Caversham didn't hear from Mr M, his accounts were defaulted. They've told us this 
means Mr M will no longer receive calls or home visits. But the debts remain outstanding. Mr 
M told our service he doesn't want to be in debt. However, I've not seen anything to 
persuade me Caversham should clear the amounts he owes under his agreements. So Mr M 
will need to contact Caversham and arrange repayments.
Mr M's hire purchase agreements say Caversham are obligated to report the way accounts 
are managed to credit reference agencies. And that term isn't unusual. I've not seen Mr M's 
credit reports, so I don't know if the missed payments and two defaulted accounts are 
showing on there. But Mr M can check his report to find out if that's the case.
Taking everything into account, I'm satisfied Caversham treated Mr M fairly. So I won't be 
asking them to do anything further to resolve Mr M's complaint.
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman