DRN-3624114
The complaint
Ms R complains that Clydesdale Bank Pic trading as Virgin Money rejected her claim under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty radiators which had been delivered 
late.
What happened
On 8 May 2021 Ms R ordered painted radiators from a merchant I will call C at a cost of 
£3,582.15. She paid with her credit card. On 10 May C wrote to Ms R saying:
The colour process takes 30 working days as stated on our website and then be returned to 
our head office in [X]. The item(s) will then be sent to the store that covers your area for 
deliveries and the sales team will call you with a delivery date.
On 4 June Ms R asked for an update and C responded on 9 June saying: The spraying 
process takes roughly 30 working days then we arrange delivery  your order is currently on 
working day 21.
On 18 June Ms R wrote: I guess 30 days are up and youll be able to advise me on delivery. 
Any further delays at this point and I will need to request a refund. I look forward to hearing 
from you shortly.
On the same day C responded to say: Your order is currently on working day 28  the 
spraying process takes roughly 30 working days, once complete your order is transferred 
from our spray centre to your local depot then we arrange delivery.
Ms R says she sent an email on 19 June to cancel her order and told C that she had 
sourced an alternative supplier.
The radiators were delivered on 25 June 2021. Ms R says that valves were missing and they 
were not painted properly.
Virgin says it received a claim on 27 July 2021. It asked for further information including 
photos which were not supplied and as it could not establish a breach of contract it rejected 
the claim. Ms R appealed on 17 September and this too was rejected by Virgin. It said that 
Cs terms and conditions state that radiators painted to order cannot be cancelled or 
returned. These also state that any defects must be reported within 24 hours of delivery. Ms 
R says she called C the day after delivery.
After Virgins rejection Ms R brought a complaint to this service. It was considered by one of 
our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  Ms R said she wasnt made aware of 
C terms and conditions but said she had asked about delivery and had been told it was 
approximately 20 days. She did not supply photographs or an independent report to 
demonstrate the radiators were faulty.
Our investigator said that Cs terms didnt give a definitive time frame but referred to 
approximately 30 working days. She didnt think delivery on the 35th working day amounted 
to a breach of contract. As for the issue of the radiators being faulty she explained that the 
onus was on Ms R to show this to be the case. She hadnt seen any such evidence but 
invited Ms R to provide more information.
Ms R said that only one radiator was powder coated and the others were spray painted and 
this should only take 14 days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
On the issue of the debtor-creditor-supplier a different name appears on the credit card 
statement rather than C. However, I am satisfied that the transaction is with C and there is 
no breach of the chain.
That means I need to be satisfied that there has been a breach of contract in order for me to 
uphold this complaint. I have looked at the terms and conditions as set out on Cs website at 
the time of the order and I can see nothing which states definitively that delivery would be 
made within 30 working days. The order confirmation makes no reference to a delivery date 
and the update received two days after the order was placed refers to painting taking 30 
days and after that the radiators will be delivered.
I appreciate that Ms R presumed the 30 days referred to the delivery timescale, but the 
wording allows for delivery to take place after that.
I have noted that Ms R has said that only one radiator was powder coated, but I can see 
from the order confirmation that there are a wide range of colours for the radiators and I 
have no reason to doubt that they fall into the category of being bespoke. This means it will 
take longer to deliver them and also it means that they cannot be cancelled or returned.
Even if they could be returned I have seen no evidence that the radiators were faulty. Both 
Virgin and this service asked Ms R for photographs of the damaged radiators or an 
independent report, but nothing was supplied. Ms R is asking Virgin to pay her a substantial 
sum and it is entitled to ask for evidence in support of the claim.
I consider Virgin reached a reasonable decision on the claim and I cannot say that they were 
wrong in how they handled it. I have not identified any unreasonable delays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman