DRN-3090211
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt pre-clear a known pending transaction so 
as to avoid the possibility of the transaction being delayed for security checks at the time the 
transaction was intended to be made.
What happened
Mr B intended to purchase a car and called Santander so that they could pre-approve the 
intended transaction to remove the possibility that the transaction would be delayed because 
of security checks. Mr B was able to provide Santander with the majority of the details of the 
upcoming transaction, but he was told that at that time that transactions couldnt be pre-
approved and that it might be selected for a security check on the day. Mr B wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Bs complaint. They explained that they dont have a process to 
allow the pre-clearing of intended payments and as such there was no way to know or 
confirm beforehand whether a transaction would be flagged for a security check or not.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the explanation that 
Santander had provided to Mr B in their complaint response had been a reasonable one, 
and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr B would have wanted to ensure that the significant monetary 
transaction he was intending to complete wouldnt be delayed because of security checks 
undertaken by his bank.
But Santander have confirmed that it isnt possible for an intended payment to be approved 
in advance by themselves in the way that Mr B would like here, and one reason for this is 
because Santander dont have a process to enable such a pre-approval to take place. 
Santander have also confirmed that they dont consider the pre-approval of known pending 
transactions to be a viable possibility from a security perspective, and that they have no 
intention to allow security checks to be pre-completed because of this.
This seems reasonable to me, especially given the stringent regulations and requirements 
that financial providers such as Santander must adhere to in regards to ensuring the safety 
of their customers money. And, while I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy that transactions 
can be flagged for varying security checks  which can take varying times  based on criteria 
of which he has no knowledge of, I dont feel that I can reasonably or fairly censure 
Santander for employing the security protocols that they do  including that they dont allow 
known transactions to be security screened in advance.
Ultimately, its for Santander to decide how they structure their business and what services 
they choose to offer to their customers, and this service wouldnt instruct a business to 
change the way in which it chooses to operate. What this service can consider is whether an 
unfair outcome has arisen in a specific case. But in this case, given that Mr B was able to 
make the intended transaction without unreasonable delay, I cant see that there has be an 
unfair outcome here.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Santander have acted unreasonably 
or unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Santander to take any further action.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting, but I trust that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman