DRN-2641855
Complaint
Mr F has complained about a logbook loan Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and making the payments have caused 
him to borrow further.
Background
Varooma provided Mr F with a loan of £500 in January 2019. This loan was due to be repaid 
in 18 monthly instalments of £61.11. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr F and Varooma had told us. And she thought that 
Varooma hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr F unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Fs complaint be upheld. Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Fs complaint.
Varooma needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Varooma needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr F 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Varooma provided Mr F with a logbook loan for £500 in June 2019. This loan was to be 
repaid in 18 instalments of around £61, which meant the total amount to be repaid was 
£1,099.98. Varooma says it agreed to Mr Fs application after he provided details of his 
monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out. All of this information showed Mr F could 
comfortably make the relatively low monthly repayments he was committing to. On the other 
hand, Mr F has said he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr F and Varooma have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Varooma has provided a record of the credit search 
information it received and it doesnt show anything too alarming. Mr F may have had 
existing debts but these dont appear excessive. And bearing in mind Mr Fs income and the 
low monthly payments for this loan, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Varooma to 
have proceeded with this application. 
I accept that Mr Fs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected in the information 
he provided, or the information Varooma obtained. But the key here is that it is only fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining Mr Fs bank 
statements. And even then Mr Fs statements in the leadup to the application dont, in 
themselves, demonstrate that he clearly wasnt able to repay £61 a month either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Varooma did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr F - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. So overall I dont think that Varooma treated    
Mr F unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. 
Ive also considered Varoomas actions once Mr F said he couldnt make payments. Having 
looked at everything, it does look like Varooma took reasonable steps to work with Mr F. It 
asked Mr F to complete an income and expenditure form, which is a reasonable way of 
finding out what hes able to pay  especially given the inconsistencies regarding his 
reduction in income. The notes of the conversations Ive seen suggest Mr F confirmed he 
was able to repay £20 a week to clear the arrears, before later saying he couldnt. And 
Varooma is still willing to consider an alternative amount provided Mr F returns the form. So I 
dont think that Varooma is treating Mr F unfairly in relation to this. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Mr F. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Although Im not upholding   
Mr Fs complaint, Id like to remind Varooma of its ongoing obligation to exercise forbearance 
in light of what Mr F has said about his ability to make payments to this loan, should it 
choose to collect payments from him and it be the case hes experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman