DRN-3187857
The complaint
Miss K is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a default on her credit file when 
she was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss K had a student account with Barclays with an overdraft facility. After she graduated 
this was upgraded to a current account. The arranged overdraft limit was £1,500.
Miss K says after graduating, she was struggling financially and she visited various branches 
to discuss repaying the overdraft and closing the account. She says Barclays didnt agree to 
closing her account, and could only offer repayment plans at the time. She says a relative 
offered to help her repay the overdraft, but only if the account was closed first.
In May 2017 Miss Ks account balance went over the arranged overdraft limit. 
On 16 June 2017 Miss K spoke to Barclays and went through her income and expenditure 
with them. Barclays made a note that it looked like Miss K could clear the arrears within 31 
days, and they created a repayment plan on the basis a one-off payment would be made. A 
cash payment of £175 was made to the account to bring the overdraft back within the 
arranged limit, but it went back over the limit again in mid July 2017.
No more payments were made to the account and the overdraft remained over the agreed 
limit.
In November 2017 Barclays wrote to Miss K to say it was withdrawing her facilities so she 
wouldnt be able to use the account. 
On 30 January 2018 Barclays sent Miss K a termination notice. They said they were ending 
the agreement, and the full amount (which at that time was £1,770.10) needed to be repaid 
within 14 days. They said they intended to register details of the account with the credit 
reference agencies. 
On 12 March 2018 Barclays closed Miss Ks account, and passed the debt to a third party 
debt collection agency. They also registered a default with the credit reference agencies. 
Miss K agreed a repayment arrangement with the third party, and the default was marked as 
satisfied when the debt was fully repaid.
Miss K feels Barclays have treated her unfairly. She says that the default should be removed 
because shes now repaid the balance. She says the default is making it difficult for her to 
get a mortgage. 
She also feels she was given incorrect advice when she spoke to advisers in the branches 
about closing her account and repaying the overdraft in full.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint, so its now been passed to me for review 
and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Wed usually expect a business to have registered a default by the time an account is six 
months in arrears. At the time the default was registered, Miss Ks account had been over its 
agreed overdraft limit for just over six months. And Barclays gave her enough notice that it 
was intending to record details of the account with the credit reference agencies if she didnt 
repay the debt. So, I dont think Barclays was unreasonable in registering a default.
When a debt is repaid after a defaults been registered, the default should be marked as 
satisfied, rather than removed from the credit record completely. Miss Ks default has been 
marked as satisfied, which is an accurate reflection of what happened here and is in line with 
how Id expect this to be recorded. So Im not going to ask Barclays to change this.
Ive looked at Miss Ks contact history notes and there arent any records of her discussions 
with the branch advisers about closing her account. Ive thought carefully about what shes 
said about this.
Miss Ks said she wasnt in a position to repay the overdraft in full  and it sounds like her 
relative was only willing to help if the account was closed first. But Miss Ks account wasnt in 
collection or recoveries at that point, because she was operating it within the agreed 
overdraft limit. So I dont think it was unusual or unreasonable for Barclays to expect the 
overdraft to be repaid before they closed the account. 
I can see from Miss Ks statements that her account was overdrawn from at least January 
2014. So it doesnt look like she could have closed her account during that time, because 
there was always an outstanding balance. Overall, I dont think Barclays have given Miss K 
incorrect information or not done enough to help her here.
Im sorry to learn Miss K has had difficulty taking out a mortgage and Im sure this has been 
stressful for her. But I dont think Barclays have treated her unfairly. So Im not going to ask 
them to remove the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman