DRN-3403292
The complaint
Mr S complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to provide the level of service he expected 
and properly and adequately advise about funds he was expecting to receive into his 
account. This resulted in him releasing a high value item to a third party, but no payment 
was received
What happened
Mr S is assisted in bringing his complaint by another party. For simplicity, Ive referred to all 
comments as having been made by Mr S.
In or around May 2021, Mr S entered into a dialogue with a third party who was interested in 
purchasing a valuable item from him. Mr S met with the individual who agreed to purchase 
the item for a substantial sum of money. Mr S agreed the third party could make an 
electronic payment for the sum agreed into his personal bank account with Lloyds. 
The third party wanted to arrange the payment using his mobile phone. So, Mr S provided 
his account details to enable this. The third party showed Mr S the screen on his phone 
which Mr S believed showed a substantial account balance available. The third party 
instructed the payment and showed Mr S his mobile phone screen again. Mr S said the 
balance figure shown had reduced by the payment amount agreed. He thought this indicated 
the payment had been made.
The third party told Mr S the payment would be received into his bank account within a 
couple of hours. But to be absolutely certain, Mr S wanted to visit his local Lloyds branch to 
check the payment had been received. So, both Mr S and the third party travelled to the 
Lloyds branch.
Upon arrival at the branch, Mr S asked a cashier whether the payment amount had been 
received. The cashier told him it hadnt, but it could take up to two hours to appear. Still 
concerned, Mr S spoke to a different cashier. He asked them whether the payment he was 
expecting would be guaranteed to go through. The cashier told him that once a transaction 
had been effected, there was no way to recall it.
Relying upon this information, Mr S returned to his home and released the high value item to 
the third party. But subsequent enquiries made to Lloyds by Mr S revealed that no payment 
was ever received. 
Mr S thought Lloyds had misinformed and misled him. He also thought the unusual 
circumstances of his visit to the branch, with an unknown third party, were sufficient to 
prompt Lloyds to be suspicious. He believes Lloyds shouldve done more to protect him and 
they shouldve given appropriate and cautionary advice. So, Mr S complained to Lloyds in 
early June 2021.
In their response to his complaint, Lloyds didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said 
their cashier had correctly informed Mr S of the timescales for receipt of funds sent as a 
Faster Payment. They werent able to comment on Mr Ss assertion he was told the payment 
was irreversible without further context. They said that they hadnt told Mr S the expected 
funds had been received. So, the release of the item to the third party was his own personal 
decision.
Mr S wasnt happy with Lloyds response. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
Having consider all the circumstances, our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly 
or done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, as an agreement couldnt be reached, 
his complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss experience here appears very unfortunate and I appreciate will have caused him 
great concern and distress. The amount concerned is not insubstantial and I do 
acknowledge Mr Ss strength of feeling. 
Its generally accepted that banks do have a responsibility to help protect their customers 
from falling victim to fraudulently transactions or scams. This service would expect banks to 
remain vigilant and to support and provide advice to their customers where the 
circumstances of a transaction appear unusual or suspicious. In the majority of 
circumstances, such situations usually involve a payment being made from a consumers 
bank account.
Mr Ss circumstances are slightly different. Lloyds werent instructed to make a payment 
from Mr Ss bank account with them. Ive considered both Mr Ss recollections and Lloyds 
own file notes and explanations. When Mr S visited the branch of Lloyds, he didnt give any 
specifics of the payment he was expecting into his account, although he did confirm to the 
cashier that the amount expected was for more than £10,000. The cashier confirmed the 
payment hadnt been received and that Faster Payments can take up to two hours to 
appear. Within the context of Mr Ss question, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds misinformed 
or misled him here. 
Ive then thought about Mr Ss conversation with another Lloyds cashier. Mr S says, I 
wished to check that the transaction we were making would be guaranteed to go through. 
Its important to recognise that as Lloyds werent involved in originating the transaction in 
question, they wouldve been in no position to specifically respond in relation to the 
transaction Mr S was expecting. Mr S says the cashier told him, once a transaction had 
been effected, there is no way to recall it. Ive no reason to question this response. But as 
Lloyds didnt originate the transaction, clearly there was no way theyd be able to specifically 
confirm Mr Ss expected transaction was guaranteed. And Ive not been provided with 
anything to suggest they did that here. So, I think this was a general response to a general 
question.
Ultimately, the decision to release the valuable item to the purchaser could only be made by 
Mr S, not Lloyds. They had no control over that. And I cant reasonably find that Lloyds did, 
at any time, tell Mr S that funds had been received or that this specific payment was 
guaranteed. While I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed, Ive not found anything to 
suggested he was misinformed by Lloyds.
Mr S believes that the unusual circumstances of his visit to the Lloyds branch shouldve 
prompted them to take additional precautions and advise him appropriately. I accept it may 
have been unusual for Mr S to visit the branch with a party unknown and unrecognised to 
the branch staff. But Mr S wasnt seeking to withdraw funds or make a payment from his 
account. So, I dont think Lloyds wouldve had cause to be alerted to any potential problems. 
And given Mr S hadnt made them aware of the nature of the underlying transaction, I cant 
reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for his ultimate decision to release the high value item to 
the third party.I want to reassure Mr S that Ive considered the circumstances of his complaint very 
carefully. And while acknowledging the serious implications of the outcome, Im not 
persuaded that Lloyds did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman