DRN-4235562
The complaint
Miss S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money locked her out of her 
account and provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
Miss S says that around October 2021 she called Virgin Money as she had been locked out 
of her mobile phone application (app). She says as her account was being charged interest 
her plan was to get access to her online account and find out the balance so she could make 
a balance transfer to a third party credit card, which offered a 0% promotional interest rate. 
Miss S was told she had failed security and her account was locked, but she believes this is 
because the call handler couldnt understand her accent. 
Since then, Miss S says she has made multiple phone calls and visited the branch several 
times to regain access to her account, but the call handlers tell her they cant discuss her 
account and the branch turned her away. She says they did not raise a complaint for her and 
due to personal circumstances she gave up pursuing this until she received communication 
from Virgin Money regarding persistent debt. She says when her personal circumstances 
improved, she went to a different branch who were more helpful. But when she provided 
identification to Virgin Money, they rejected this. Miss S made a complaint to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money did not uphold Miss S complaint. They said although she had provided them 
with documents already, these were not approved by their fraud department, therefore they 
needed to be resent. They said as a gesture of goodwill, they would apply a one month 
interest waiver to the account. Miss S brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Miss S complaint. He said Virgin Money sent her a contact 
us email and they confirmed to him that they now have the acceptable identification needed, 
so Miss S just needs to call them and complete identification verification over the phone so 
Miss S can have full access again. Our investigator said in recognition of the significant 
inconvenience caused, including branch visits she made and the number of phone calls 
which Virgin Money couldve dealt with better, they should pay Miss S £300 compensation. 
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint as she wanted Virgin Money to 
refund the interest charged on the account. She said she didnt have a copy of the contact 
us email Virgin Money sent her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Miss S complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Miss S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to 
run their security procedures in order for the business to be satisfied they are meeting their 
regulatory requirements, such as when they should block an account or remove a block. It 
would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to 
instruct Virgin Money to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Virgin Money and Miss S do not agree on some of the facts, for example, the dates of 
certain things, such as when the block was applied. When it comes to complaints where its 
one word against another, I have to consider the evidence available to me. I then have to 
weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have 
happened in the circumstances. In order to do this, Ive considered all of the information that 
Miss S has told our service, and Ive requested extra evidence from Virgin Money to 
determine what is likely to have happened here. 
Due to the system notes, it appears the card watch (block) was placed on her card on 11 
August 2021. So while Virgin Money had previously told us it was in July 2021 (and Miss S 
believed it was around October 2021), Im satisfied the block was placed on 11 August 2021.
Ive listened to a call that Miss S had with a call handler on 10 August 2021. She tells the call 
handler she had just logged into the app for the first time in a while and she can see a direct 
debit coming out and she thinks it is fraudulent. The call handler asks Miss S security 
questions, but she doesnt pass security. Im not persuaded that this had anything to do with 
Miss S accent as Miss S was unable to answer some of the security questions he asked 
her. But he did say he would arrange a call back from their daytime security team and they 
would give her a call between 8am-12pm, the following morning as the team werent open at 
the moment. Miss S tells the call handler this isnt good enough and asks to speak to a 
manager. The call handler says he would try and find a manager, but he didnt know whether 
they could speak to her since she failed security and they would tell her the same thing. The 
line is disconnected.
It's not clear why the line was disconnected. And there are no other call recordings available 
from 2021 that Virgin Money can forward me. Miss S has said on her complaint form to our 
service that she tried a second time ringing Virgin Money, but she was told her account was 
blocked for failing security. So it does appear that Miss S was aware her account was 
blocked. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe. So if a caller cant answer security questions and the bank deems the caller has failed 
security, then they may block a card to try and safeguard the account. This can cause 
distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted 
incorrectly. 
Virgin Money sent Miss S a letter dated 11 August 2021. I can see this was addressed to the 
registered address Virgin Money held for her. This tells her So you can continue to use and 
discuss your card, we need you to send us proof of your identity and address. In the 
meantime as an additional security measure we have traced a temporary block on your card 
until we receive this information. There is a list of identification documents that she could 
send them and the letter says they had enclosed a pre-paid envelope or she may wish to 
use special delivery if she is sending original documents. 
But there is no indication that Virgin Money ever received any documents from Miss S in 
August 2021 or shortly thereafter. Looking at her app activity, the last time she had logged 
into the app was on 11 August 2021  the day that her card later became blocked. The next 
time she tried to login to the app was an unsuccessful attempt on 12 July 2022, nearly a year later. I know Miss S has said in her complaint form that she visited the branch and they 
turned her away, but the letter did not ask her to visit a branch and it gave her clear 
instructions what she needed to do for the block to be removed. 
Miss S told us that she tried to complain but they wouldnt log a complaint for her and around 
this time she gave up due to personal circumstances that I wont go into detail here, but I can 
assure her Ive read what she said about this. It was only when she received a letter 
regarding persistent debt that she tried to progress the situation, but she was unable to do 
so. When her personal circumstances improved in July 2022, she was able to visit a different 
branch who took ownership, but Virgin Money did not accept the identification. This meant 
Miss S made another branch visit in August 2022 with further identification. 
I can see from Virgin Moneys system notes that they received the identification on 19 
August 2022, they were reviewed on 22 August 2022, and they were approved and verified 
on 4 September 2022. Virgin Money have provided us evidence that they sent Miss S an 
email for her to contact them on 6 September 2022 at 9:15am. Their software shows that 
Miss S actually opened this email at 9:18am. Although I dont have a copy of the email, Im 
satisfied Virgin Money sent this, it was delivered to Miss S and she opened this. 
Ive considered that Miss S has told our investigator that she didnt have a copy of the email, 
but she waited around one month after sending identification to Virgin Money the second 
time and she was told she couldnt get an update on the account which was locked, so she 
did try and ring them and follow this up. But her letter on 11 August 2021 appeared to give 
her a specific phone number to ring if she had any questions, so its possible that the email 
Virgin Money sent her in September 2022 also contained a separate number for her to call 
as opposed to the customer services telephone number that she had been ringing who 
consistently told her they couldnt help her. 
Im aware that Miss S now has access to her account. I can see from her app login records 
that she logged into her account successfully on each day between 4-7 July 2023. Ive 
considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Ive noted the strength of feeling 
that Miss S has about how the interest should be refunded to her. But Im not persuaded that 
this would be proportionate here for a number of reasons  and Ill explain why.
Virgin Money sent Miss S a letter in August 2021 when the block was first placed on the card 
and they showed her what she needed to do for the block to be removed, but theres no 
evidence from either side she took these actions. While I cant rule out that Miss S didnt 
receive this letter and that is why she didnt take the actions that were required in the letter, I 
cant hold Virgin Money responsible for any postal issues as this would be out of their 
control. 
Although Miss S has said she wanted to complete a balance transfer to save interest, her 
promotional interest period finished on 9 May 2021 as indicated on her statements. And her 
card wasnt blocked until just over three months later, so Miss S had already been paying 
interest prior to the card being blocked. In addition to this, Virgin Money have confirmed to 
me that although there was a block on her card, this wouldnt have prevented a balance 
transfer being honoured by them. But Miss S doesnt appear to have instructed a third party 
credit card provider to make a balance transfer to her account. And Miss S should have 
been reasonably aware of what she owed Virgin Money prior to her card being blocked as 
her app activity shows she received her transaction list and got her statement on 11 August 
2021. So it would not be proportionate for me to ask Virgin Money to refund the interest they 
legitimately charged her.
But thats not to say that Virgin Money havent let Miss S down. They have - and on a 
number of occasions. Its not disputed how long Miss S has been on the phone to them or the branch visits shes had. And it appears Virgin Money gave her incorrect information 
about what identification was needed which resulted in her having to provide different 
information. Theres no doubt how distressing this process has been for Miss S during this 
process and the inconvenience Virgin Money caused her during this time. And while I note 
there were other channels such as Virgin Moneys website where she could have registered 
a complaint much earlier, I dont find it good customer service from both the call handlers 
and staff of one branch refusing to raise a complaint on her behalf. While the call handlers 
may not have been able to verify her because of the block on the card, Im not persuaded 
the branch staff originally wouldnt be able to verify her in person, prior to her being turned 
away from the branch.
Our investigator has suggested that Virgin Money pay Miss S £300 to recognise the impact 
of the distress and inconvenience and Im satisfied that this is reflective of the impact Virgin 
Moneys errors had on Miss S. As proven by the second branch she visited, the previous 
branch could have taken ownership which may have helped mitigate the distress and 
inconvenience that she suffered, but they didnt. So it follows that Ill be asking Virgin Money 
to put things right for Miss S.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Virgin Money pays Miss S £300 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Miss 
S £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman