DRN-3051923
The complaint
Mr I complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited refused his request that it terminate 
his fixed sum loan agreement and refund his payments. The loan had funded his purchase 
of a mobile phone which he says was faulty.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr I purchased a mobile phone from Virgin Mobile Telecoms Limited. 
This purchase was funded by a fixed term loan agreement provided by Virgin Media Mobile 
Finance Limited (Virgin). 19 days after the phone was delivered, Mr I noticed a hairline 
crack on the screen, which he is adamant must have been there when it was delivered, as 
he insists that there is no way that he or anyone else could possibly have damaged it since.
Mr I phoned Virgin to complain, and to ask to return the phone at no cost to him. Since 
Mr I said that there had been no damage to the packaging in which the phone had arrived, 
Virgin did not accept that the phone had been damaged at delivery. Virgin told Mr I that the 
14-day cooling off period had expired, and so it would charge him £96 to repair the screen. 
But Mr I argued that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, he had 30 days in which to reject 
faulty goods. He asked Virgin for an address he could return the phone to, but Virgin would 
not tell him. So Mr I sent the phone to Virgins CEO at its head office, an address hed found 
online.
Mr I later brought this complaint to our service. Virgin did not accept that it had done 
anything wrong. It said that the reason it had not told Mr I an address to send the phone to 
was because its process was to send a pre-addressed jiffy bag to return the phone in, and it 
had not sent him one because it did not accept that he had had a valid reason to return the 
phone. Nevertheless, and without realising that Mr I no longer had the phone, Virgin offered 
to fix the screen at no cost to Mr I, and also to pay him £100 for his trouble, as a gesture of 
good will. Virgin withdrew that offer once it was told that Mr I no longer had the phone. Virgin 
said it did not know where the phone was.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said there was not enough evidence to 
show that the phone had been damaged when it was delivered. It followed that Virgin had 
been entitled to charge Mr I to repair the screen, and had been under no obligation to send 
him a pre-addressed returns envelope. She said the address Mr I had returned the phone to 
had not been the correct address for that, and so since it was not Virgins fault that he no 
longer had the phone, she would not recommend that Virgin do anything.
Mr I did not accept that opinion. He argued that even if the phone had been damaged after 
delivery, the fact that it was so easily damaged must mean that it was not durable, which is 
itself a defect under the Consumer Rights Act. He said that Virgins returns policy impliedly 
purports to override the Act. He said it was not his fault that he no longer had the phone, and 
that he had only returned it in order to comply with the statutory 30-day deadline, not having 
any other address to return it to. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Mr I has explained that he did not notice the cracked screen earlier because he has poor 
eyesight and the light levels in his home are low. He says he noticed the damage when he 
placed the phone in direct sunlight, and he is certain that he did not drop or mishandle it, and 
he had had no visitors during that time. Nevertheless, I still dont think it would be safe to 
infer that the phone was damaged when it was delivered, because there was no damage to 
the packaging, and because the phone still could have been damaged without Mr I noticing 
at the time. While I cannot rule out the possibility that Mr I could be right, on the balance of 
probabilities I am not satisfied that the phone was damaged when it was delivered.
Mr I is right to point out that the Consumer Rights Act implies into his contract a term that the 
phone will be of satisfactory quality, and that the phones durability is one aspect of that. So 
if the phone broke after it was delivered because it was too fragile, that would still mean that 
it was faulty at the time of delivery. However, the phones screen is made of glass, and so a 
hairline crack does not necessarily mean that the phone was not reasonably durable. I am 
not persuaded that a cracked screen is proof that the phone must have been defective all 
along.
I dont think Virgin meant to suggest that its returns policy overrides English law. Rather, 
Virgin took the view that it had no obligation under the Consumer Rights Act to refund Mr I or 
terminate its loan agreement. I agree, and so I dont think Virgin was obliged to give Mr I its 
returns address or send him a returns envelope.
I understand Mr Is reason for sending the phone to Virgin anyway: he wanted to preserve 
his position under the Act, and to avoid being disadvantaged by missing the 30 days 
deadline. However, he had already met the deadline by telling Virgin that he wanted to reject 
the phone (which request Virgin made a record of). Under the Act, that is enough, and there 
was no need to return the phone.
It is unfortunate that the phone was returned to the wrong address, and that it has now been 
lost. However, since Virgin did not tell Mr I to send it there, and it is not an address for 
sending phones to, I dont think I can hold Virgin responsible.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman