DRN-3364130
The complaint
Ms L complains that she was given wrong advice by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
take out a free standing additional voluntary contribution  (FSAVC) plan.
What happened
Ms L has been employed since 1996 and a member of her occupational pension scheme. In 
1998, she was 30 years old and wanted to increase her pension provision. She took out an 
FSAVC plan and started making payments of £30 per month.
Ms L complained about what happened, with the help of a representative who says: 
Aviva didnt bring the alternatives to Ms Ls attention - in particular, the difference in 
charges between an FSAVC and an in-house AVC;
a personalised comparison would have been a requirement of either a tied adviser or 
an independent financial adviser;
its unlikely Ms L would choose a product with higher charges; and 
the greater tax efficiency of an in-house AVC should have been explained. 
Aviva said it was satisfied its representative recommended a suitable product for Ms L's 
needs. Her representative didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. He says 
Ms L has lost out financially and wants her to be put in the position she would have been in if 
she had received the correct advice and not taken out the FSAVC plan.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the adviser made Ms L 
aware of the options available to her, including her employers in-house AVC, recommended 
that she ask her employer about that scheme, and provided details of the differences 
between the different options.
Ms Ls representative disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Amongst 
other things, they say:
the guidance required there to be a discussion, not just the provision of information;
the leaflet given to Ms L provided very little about the difference in charges and no 
comparison of them;
the adviser didnt do enough to make Ms L aware of the generic difference between 
the two options and she wasnt given enough information to make an informed 
choice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L met a tied adviser  someone who could only recommend the products of the company 
they were tied to. In May 1996 the regulator issued an update called RU20 which set out 
the procedures to be followed (not strictly new guidance but restating what was already in 
place). The update said a tied adviser shouldnt recommend their own companys FSAVC 
until they had: 
drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms; and 
directed the customer to their employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-house option. 
The differences included in the discussions should have included, amongst other things, the 
difference in charges and expense deductions and it should have been pointed out that 
charges for the in-house AVC were likely to be lower than those for the FSAVC plan.
Ms L signed a declaration confirming that she had been given a Key Features leaflet, a 
personal illustration, an Investment Choices brochure, and a description of the policy. The 
declaration also indicated that charges can be higher for FSAVCs than in-house AVCs. 
Ms L also signed an Options sheet to confirm shed been advised of the options available 
to her. And she was sent a Right to Cancel letter which refers to her receiving the Key 
Features document and personalised details.
The options leaflet also provided further information on the tax relief that applied and how 
this worked in practice.
Advisers should have known whether in-house options are available. Although they didnt 
have to investigate whether the in-house options were better than the FSAVC, advisers did 
have to mention the generic benefits of them. Ms L signed to confirm she was made aware 
of the options, and that the in-house AVC would likely offer lower charges than the FSAVC.
Ms L was a member of her occupational pension scheme. Although the adviser was required 
to recommend that Ms L contact her employer to make enquiries, it was for her to do that  
the adviser didnt have to make additional enquiries for her. 
Ms Ls representative says its implausible she would have chosen a product where the 
charges would probably be higher. I cant say for sure what was said in 1998. But looking at 
all the evidence I do have, I think on the balance of probabilities its likely Ms L had the 
charges explained to her. And she signed a declaration which said:
I have been given my own copy of this sheet and understand its content. I realise the 
importance of obtaining details of my Scheme AVC and its charges from my employers 
pension scheme and comparing them with my FSAVC option. I have had an opportunity to 
do this and as a result of my investigations, I have decided to proceed with my FSAVC 
application.
As Ive said, its very difficult now to say precisely what was said in discussions that took 
place over 20 years ago. But from the information Ive seen, I think Ms L was aware of what 
she signed up for. Aviva did enough to explain the differences between the FSAVC and in-
house options, and fulfilled its obligations for tied advisers under RU20 when recommending 
FSAVCs to a consumer. Im satisfied Ms L was made aware of the availability of AVCs and 
that charges were likely to be lower than the FSAVC option. She was made aware of the 
potential for her to buy added years as an alternative. Given her circumstances and 
objectives at the time of the advice, Im satisfied an FSAVC was not unsuitable for her.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman