DRN-3456508
The complaint
Mrs C, through her representative, complains that Canada Life Limited mis-sold her a whole-
of-life assurance policy.
What happened
In 1995, Canada Life recommended Mrs C apply to convert an existing term assurance 
policy into a whole-of-life policy. The term assurance policy was for £30,000 and was about 
to expire. It had an option to convert the policy into a whole-of-life policy without additional 
medical underwriting.
Canada Life advised Mrs C to convert the policy  which would pay out if her husband 
passed away. The sum assured was £30,000 and the premiums were £100 per month. The 
premiums were invested in the managed fund and the policy had the potential to build up a 
surrender value.
At the time of the advice Mrs C had over £405,000 in assets and was the sole beneficiary 
listed in her husbands will. Mrs C surrendered the policy in 2009 and received a surrender 
value of around £8,500. She complained through her representative recently. Specifically, 
her representative said there was no need for her to have this policy, and so it was 
unsuitable.
Our Investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs Cs circumstances at the 
time didnt show a need for this policy so she didnt think the recommendation was suitable. 
She recommended Canada Life pays Mrs C a refund of premiums less the surrender value 
plus interest.
Canada Life disagreed. It said that it felt the policy was suitable for Mrs C as her husband 
was the sole earner and if hed passed away, shed need the lump sum. It also said that 
shed been given sufficient information about the policy to make an informed choice. It asked 
for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint as I dont think this policy was suitable for 
Mrs C. Ill explain why.
As Canada Life provided advice to Mrs C, it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for her 
circumstances. At the time of advice Mrs C was in her 50s. She had £405,000 worth of 
assets in her name, including £50,000 on deposit. Its recorded that she had a joint mortgage 
of £5,000 that was covered by life cover. Her husband was in receipt of a pension income at 
the time and they had a surplus income of over £700 each month. Her husband also had 
over £400,000 of assets and his will left everything to Mrs C if he passed away.
Mrs C was recommended to take a whole-of-life policy covering her husbands life. Canada 
Life say she needed this because he received the income. But Mrs C had enough assets to 
enable her to live should her husband pass away, and shed receive his assets too  so 
could have assets of over £800,000 which included investments and cash on deposit. This 
policy wouldve paid £30,000. I cant see how an additional £30,000 of cover was needed in 
the event Mrs Cs husband passed away so I dont think this policy was suitable.
I accept that this policy was converted from an existing term assurance policy. But that policy 
was to cover specific lending and was about to end. I cant see any reason for Canada Life 
to have recommended Mrs C convert her existing policy. And whilst this had the opportunity 
to provide a surrender value, the main feature was to provide life cover that Mrs C didnt 
require at the time. So, I dont think the advice was suitable.
I can see Canada Life has said it provided sufficient information for Mrs C to have made an 
informed choice. I can see that there was information about the policy provided, but as 
Canada Life recommended this policy to Mrs C she was entitled to rely on the advice she 
was given. And as that advice was unsuitable for her circumstances, Canada Life needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right
Canada Life Limited must refund the premiums Mrs C made towards this policy less the 
surrender value she received. Canada Life Limited must also add 8% simple interest per 
annum to the refund from the date the premiums were paid to the date of settlement.
If Canada Life Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Canada Life Limited must follow the 
instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman