DRN-4425134
The complaint
Miss C complains about what happened when she asked a broker, Home in One Financial 
Services Limited (working through its appointed representative, Arun Estate Agencies Ltd 
trading as Mortgage Matters Direct (MMD)) for help in arranging a mortgage.
What happened
Miss C said shed discussed mortgages with MMD at the end of April. At the end of July she 
told it that shed committed to buying a property, as the winner of an online auction, so she 
wanted to arrange a mortgage to complete the purchase. She had a meeting to start her 
mortgage application on 13 August. Following this, Miss C signed a draft contract for her 
purchase, and was then due to complete on the property by 1st November.
Miss C said she spoke to MMD at the end of September, and discovered nothing had been
done on her mortgage, no application had yet been made. She said MMD claimed it was
waiting for information from the auction house which she had already submitted herself.
Miss C said when her mortgage application was finally submitted in October, she didnt get
any information on the product shed applied for. So she didnt even know what the rate was,
or what her monthly payments would be.
Miss C said the lender asked for a timber and damp report. But the seller wouldnt agree to
that being carried out, as by this time Miss Cs completion date was only days away, and
was clearly going to be missed. So she said she asked MMD if she could use the survey
shed initially had completed herself. She said MMD didnt ask the lender if that survey would
help, it just uploaded it, which caused more delays further down the line.
Miss C said then in mid-November MMD told her the lender wouldnt go ahead unless the
essential works were completed, but didnt tell her what these essential works were. She
said she discovered then that the lender wanted all the works listed on her survey, and the
rate of her mortgage was too much for her to afford. She said she felt trapped, as shed lose
her deposit and legal fees if she pulled out of the purchase, so she had to go ahead.
Miss C said things only started to move when she complained about the broker, and a more
senior person at MMD took over. She got an up to date mortgage factsheet, saying the rate
was a little less than shed feared. But in early December, the lender said it wouldnt offer her
a mortgage, unless all the timber and damp works were done before completion.
Miss C said by this time the sellers were so upset about the delays, they wouldnt negotiate.
Fortunately, she managed to get a different mortgage offer elsewhere, and her purchase
went ahead. MMD offered her £350 in compensation, but she felt it should pay much more.
MMD said it did accept there was a delay of approximately six weeks in submitting Miss Cs
application to the lender. It said when it put in the application, unfortunately Miss Cs lender
had withdrawn from the market for a time, so her application couldnt proceed right away. 
MMD also thought there was a delay in sending Miss C a mortgage summary factsheet once
the lender started to offer rates again, and it apologised for that.
But MMD said it wasnt its fault Miss C had needed to pay for a timber and damp survey, and
nothing it had done had increased her legal costs.
Once her application was submitted, it then took just over eight weeks for the lender to reach
its decision. MMD said that if her application had been submitted earlier, in late August, she
would have been turned down for lending sooner as well. So that would have left Miss C
trying to source a new lender in early October, just after the mini budget and during the worst
of the market turmoil, when mortgage interest rates were at their peak.
MMD also noted that because Miss Cs lender decided the property wasnt mortgageable in
its current condition, she was able to withdraw from the purchase and get her deposit back, if
she decided not to go ahead.
MMD said it was sorry that it had got some things wrong, and it wanted to pay Miss C £200.
Miss C replied, saying the initial delay was more like ten weeks than six, claiming her other
purchase costs had increased because of what MMD did, and saying MMD still hadnt
explained why she wasnt given full details of her mortgage until late November. Importantly,
Miss C also believed that if shed been told earlier that the lender wouldnt lend without the
works being completed, she felt the seller would have been more willing to negotiate, and
would have done the required work. So she thought she could have secured the rate
discussed in August after all, which was much lower than she ended up with.
MMD then increased its offer to £350, but its underlying position didnt change. Miss C didnt
want to accept that, and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said MMD had dealt with
things fairly. He said MMD was only ever the broker in this case, and we couldnt hold it
responsible for what the lender did.
Our investigator said unfortunately Miss Cs credit file meant there were limited lending
options for her. He noted that MMD accepts it caused a six-week delay in her application
initially being submitted, but he said by the time that was resolved, unfortunately the
proposed lender had withdrawn from the lending market. No other option was then available
for Miss C, so our investigator said the delay from 28 September was outside MMDs control.
By 19 October 2022, the lender had come back into the market, and Miss Cs mortgage
application was made. The valuation expressed concerns about the property, so the lender
requested a timber and damp report.  
Miss C said shed already had a survey done, which contained a considerable amount of
information about timber and damp, so this report was submitted to the lender, to see if that
would resolve its concerns. Our investigator said there were delays at this point with the
survey being reviewed by the lenders valuer, but our investigator said that too was outside
of MMDs control. On 15 November the lender said it would want the recommended repair
work done before it would lend.
Our investigator said this caused some confusion, and MMD liaised with the lender to see if
it would lend without this work being completed. At this stage, the lender said it did want to
see a specialist timber and damp report. Miss C paid for the required report, and it was sent
to the lender on 30 November. On 6 December, the lender confirmed it wouldnt lend unless
work was completed before the mortgage offer was made.
Our investigator noted that Miss C could then have got her deposit back, but instead, she
sourced an alternative mortgage elsewhere. The rate she secured was lower than thatproposed by the lender in November 2022, but higher than the rate shed initially discussed
with MMD in August.
Our investigator said the timber and damp report Miss C paid for was requested by the
lender, so MMD wasnt responsible for that. He said there were problems with the service
MMD provided, and the application should have been submitted to the lender earlier. Our
investigator thought that did cause avoidable distress. But that delay was also affected by
factors outside MMDs control, in particular the market turmoil caused by the mini budget.
Our investigator said MD had accepted there were also delays issuing the standard form
explanation of the mortgage Miss C was applying for. Miss C only got this around the end of
November 2022. But ultimately, this lender decided not to lend, and delays in making that
decision were largely outside of MMDs control.
Our investigator said he couldnt base compensation in this case on the lenders initial rate,
available in August, because the lender ultimately decided not to lend. Our investigator
wasnt persuaded that the seller of the property Miss C was buying would have agreed to
carry out the necessary repairs if the request had been made sooner. And he also said he
couldnt see how MMD was responsible for the additional legal costs Miss C incurred, over
the initial estimate her solicitors provided.
Our investigator thought MMDs offer of £350 for poor service was a fair and reasonable way
to resolve this complaint.
Miss C didnt agree. She said if MMD had made the application when it should have done, at
the start of August, a rate would have been secured then. She said the rates she was
offered later were much higher, which caused her significant financial disadvantage. Miss C
also said this lender released rates on October 7th, but she wasnt told about that. Although
those were only for a lower loan to value than she was applying for, she may have been able
to increase her deposit.
Miss C wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me
for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I understand Miss C was very disappointed in the outcome of the mortgage application 
she made through MMD. However, this complaint is only against MMD. And I have to 
bear in mind, overall, that the lender MMD approached for Miss C, did decline to lend in 
this case. 
I know Miss C thinks if the original application had been done sooner, without the initial 
six week delay MMD caused, then the seller might have been more willing to negotiate. 
She thinks the work might then have been undertaken by the seller before the sale. Ive 
not seen anything to make me think that. I think a seller who has chosen to sell through 
an online auction method is probably at least partly motivated by the desire for a quicker 
sale, so I think it would it be surprising if such a seller was then willing to undertake work 
before sale. So unfortunately, I think its always likely that this lender would have 
declined to lend.
If MMD hadnt caused the initial delay, then what should have happened? Miss Cs 
mortgage application should have been submitted in mid-August. I think its then likely that events would have unfolded in largely the same way  a valuation would have been 
booked, the valuer would have raised concerns, Miss C would have offered the survey 
shed had completed earlier, this wouldnt have resolved the lenders concerns, and a 
timber and damp survey would then have been commissioned. And unfortunately, 
ultimately, the lender would have chosen not to proceed.
I dont think its likely that the time from Miss Cs mortgage application to her lenders
eventual decision could have been achieved significantly faster than the seven weeks,
roughly, which it did take, if MMDs service had been better. Like our investigator, I think 
the substantive delays during this time were when the lender took time to take key 
decisions. But all this could have happened a little over two months earlier, if the 
application hadnt been affected by MMDs initial delay, and by the fact that MMDs 
delay was only resolved at a point when the lender withdrew from the market for a time.
So, if Miss Cs application had been submitted promptly, that would have meant that, 
instead of finding out her first choice of lender wouldnt lend in early December, she 
would have discovered this at the very end of September or start of October.
MMD has pointed out that this was the high point of mortgage market turmoil, with 
interest rates at a peak. And I think its right about that.
So I think that in some respects Miss C could have had a less stressful experience if 
shed been told that her first choice of lender wouldnt lend in late September or early 
October, as she may have had fewer concerns about her seller backing out altogether. 
But I do think she would then also have ended up paying more for her mortgage.
I know its just luck that Miss C may well have ended up better off financially, because 
she was able to secure a lower interest rate with her second lender in December as a 
result of MMDs initial delay. But that is still a circumstance I have to take into account in 
resolving this complaint.
I should note I havent been able to see that anything MMD did, caused additional legal
costs in this case. And I think Miss C paid for a timber and damp report because the 
lender asked for that, not because of anything MMD did. I also think Miss C had told 
MMD how much money she had available for a deposit, so I dont think MMD had any 
reason to think Miss C should have been offered a mortgage with a lower LTV.
That means when Im thinking about compensation here, Ive just got to think about the
experience Miss C had. I do think shes been very stressed and upset by what 
happened. 
I note that MMD just hasnt got an explanation for the initial delay. That delay, for no
apparent reason, meant Miss C then lost trust in MMD. So although I do think MMD was
working to keep her mortgage application moving in October and November, Miss C 
was very concerned that it wasnt doing enough to secure her borrowing. So I think this 
initial mistake affected Miss Cs entire experience with MMD. And, as Ive noted above, 
it is simply luck that she didnt suffer financially from this.
I also note MMD didnt share key information with Miss C about the mortgage she was
actually applying for, again with no apparent excuse. I think that must also have 
increased Miss Cs fears.
For that reason, I think MMD should pay a little more than it initially offered in this case. I
think MMD should make a total payment of £500 in this case. I think that would provide 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.MMD has already offered Miss C £350. I cant see this has been paid, but Ill allow MMD 
to count that amount towards my award of £500, if it has already paid it to Miss C.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MMD thanked me for the provisional decision, and said it was happy to pay the increased 
compensation amount, if Miss C agreed. Miss C also replied, to say she too was happy, and 
would accept. She said she hadnt yet received any of the offered compensation from MMD. 
If that is the case, then MMD will be required to make full payment once Miss C formally 
accepts the finalised decision below.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Home in One Financial Services Limited must pay Miss C a total of 
£500 in compensation in this case. Home in One Financial Services Limited can count 
towards that, any payment it has already made to Miss C for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman