DRN-1545976
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) mis-sold him 
an annuity in 2009, resulting in a missed opportunity to purchase an enhanced annuity.
What happened
Towards the end of 2008, Mr D requested a retirement pack from Prudential. Although Mr D 
doesnt recall requesting this, Prudential have provided a copy of the documentation sent at 
the time. For reasons unknown, no action was taken at this stage by Mr D. 
In June 2009 Mr D requested another retirement pack. Prudential sent Mr D his benefits 
package. This included: 
Cancellation Substitute;
Quotation;
Key Features; and
Benefit Instructions Form 
Mr D completed the relevant forms and returned them to Prudential and consequently took 
out an annuity with them.
In 2016 The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published findings of a thematic review 
theyd carried out. The review was of non-advised annuity purchases. The FCA contacted 
Prudential and asked that they reviewed their non-advised annuity sales. Specifically, in 
2019 Prudential carried out a review of Mr Ds annuity sale. They asked Mr D if he was 
aware that if he:
had certain medical conditions or lifestyle conditions (such as overweight, smoked or 
previously smoked) at the time the annuity was purchased on 1 June 2009 that [he] may 
have been eligible for an enhanced annuity.
Mr D complained to Prudential as he felt he hadnt been made aware of this. He stated that 
at the time (2009) both he and his wife had certain lifestyle conditions that he would have 
notified Prudential of. 
Prudential reviewed the documents they sent to Mr D at the time and the information hed 
provided in response. They concluded that they had provided Mr D with all the relevant 
information they were required to at the time. Therefore, they explained Mr D should have 
informed them of his lifestyle conditions in 2009. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to us in October 2019. Mr D maintained that 
the information Prudential provided didnt specify lifestyle conditions. Our investigator 
reviewed the documentation Mr D said hed received. And the documentation Prudential said 
theyd sent. Concluding that Mr D was referring to the wrong documentation, our investigator 
explained that Prudential had provided the correct information at the time of the annuity 
purchase. Pointing out that Prudential had shown us copies of documentation sent to Mr D in 
2008 and 2009. Our investigator explained that the documentation Mr D had been referring 
to was that sent to him in 2008. 
Our investigator also stated that even if Mr D had provided details of his lifestyle conditions 
to Prudential, it wasnt a guarantee that hed have been able to purchase an enhanced 
annuity. It would have merely been a trigger to Prudential to gather more information from 
Mr D. Further it was unlikely that he would have been able to purchase an enhanced annuity 
in any event, given the specific nature of his lifestyle conditions. 
As Mr D disagreed with our investigators findings, this has been passed to me for a final 
decision. Mr D states he has no recollection of documentation being sent to him in 2008. 
Concluding that the documentation he is relying on must have been sent to him in 2009. And 
has asked, that his annual annuity payment be reviewed and increased. He also questioned 
why Prudential hadnt stated that he wouldnt have been able to purchase an enhanced 
annuity in any event, if that was the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says he doesnt recall asking for a retirement pack or Key Features leaflet prior to 
2009. However, Prudential have provided copies of documentation sent in 2008, which 
included a Key Features leaflet. It would seem the Key Features leaflet provided in 2008 is 
the leaflet Mr D has been referring to. Having seen copies of the documentation Prudential 
sent to Mr D in 2008 and in 2009, I am satisfied that the version I am relying on (W515 
05/09) was the version issued to Mr D in 2009, after Prudential had updated it. 
Rules about annuities in 2009
Mr D has said he wasnt aware that certain medical or lifestyle conditions could have made 
him eligible for an enhanced annuity. The specific conditions relevant in this case are being 
overweight, a current smoker or having smoked previously. 
  
The rules at the time stated the pension provider had to either provide their client with the 
FSAs factsheet titled Your pension: its time to choose or a written statement that gives 
materially the same information.
Ive reviewed the benefits pack Prudential sent to Mr D in 2009. And I can see Prudential 
provided materially the same information to Mr D. The cover letter stated:
Before you take your Annuity, you should read the Cancellation Substitute as it tells you 
important information you need to know about your pension income options  You can take 
your benefits from Prudential or use the open market option, which allows you to choose 
another pension income provider. We recommend that you get in touch with your financial 
adviser to help you decide on the most suitable choices for you.
Prudential made Mr D aware of the open market options and advised him to get financial 
advice. They also advised him to read the Cancellation Substitute which provided further 
information about options available to Mr D. Im therefore satisfied that Prudential met the 
requirements regarding selling annuities at the time. 
Should Mr D have known to inform Prudential about his conditions?
Both the cover letter accompanying Mr Ds retirement pack and the Cancellation Substitute 
(part of the retirement pack), stated he should read the Key Features leaflet.  This leaflet set 
out his options including enhanced annuities. Page 16 said:You could qualify for a higher income if you and/ or your dependent  have a medical 
condition that could reduce your and/ or your dependents life expectancy. This option is 
known as an Enhanced Annuity. 
On page 17 it then says:
Lifestyle conditions  We will take into consideration conditions associated with your lifestyle 
such as smoking, high BMI, raised cholesterol and high blood pressure. We also consider 
other conditions on an individual basis.
I therefore cannot agree that the possibility of an enhanced annuity wasnt shared with Mr D. 
Based on the information shared with him at the time, it would be fair to say Mr D had 
enough information to decide whether a more detailed conversation (at the very least) 
regarding his conditions would be helpful. Further, he always had the option to seek 
independent advice from a financial advisor. And this was specifically pointed out to Mr D by 
Prudential prior to him purchasing the annuity.  
Purpose of the Prudential review in 2019
The FCA asked Prudential to look into whether certain clients whod purchased a non-
 advised annuity from 1 July 2008 onwards were aware that:
If they had certain medical conditions or lifestyle conditions at the time the annuity 
was purchased (in Mr Ds case June 2009)  that they may have been eligible for an 
enhanced annuity;
They could have potentially received a higher income by shopping around for an 
enhanced annuity with another provider. 
Mr D maintains this wasnt communicated to him. He believes the fair and reasonable 
approach would be that Prudential under the circumstances, acknowledge that Mr D did 
have certain lifestyle conditions at the time of his annuity purchase, and consequently 
increase his annual annuity payment amount. 
I do not agree that Prudential failed to provide the relevant information required of them to 
Mr D at the time. As I have already explained the Key Features leaflet contained the 
necessary information regarding the possibility of an enhanced annuity. Further the cover 
letter stated:
You can take your benefits from Prudential or use the open market option, which allows you 
to choose another pension income provider. We recommend that you get in touch with your 
financial adviser to help you decide on the most suitable choices for you.
This combined with the Key Features leaflet, show Prudential had covered the points raised 
by the FCA, at the time of the annuity being purchased. The fact that Mr D didnt share 
information regarding lifestyle conditions he/ his wife had at the time, isnt something I can 
hold Prudential responsible for.
The purpose of the review was to make sure Mr D had the information needed in order to 
make an informed choice. Not to provide an enhanced annuity retrospectively, which seems 
to be what Mr D is arguing, at least in part. 
Further, Prudentials Key Features leaflet clearly states Prudential can only offer an 
enhanced annuity at the time of the annuity purchase. It then goes on to invite the client to 
call if they think they may be eligible. This further demonstrates that Prudential made Mr D 
aware of next steps to take if he thought he may be eligible for an enhanced annuity. Would Prudential have offered an enhanced annuity anyway?
Taking the above into consideration, whether or not Prudential would have offered Mr D an 
enhanced annuity in 2009 is immaterial. Having reviewed the content of the documentation 
provided in 2009, I can see Mr D was provided with sufficient information, explaining an 
enhanced annuity may be an option available to him. I am satisfied therefore that Mr D was 
made aware of this at the time, but he didnt notify Prudential of his/ his wifes conditions. 
Therefore, this neednt be considered any further. 
Is there any loss?
Mr D has explained that hed like his annual annuity payments to be increased as he feels 
he would have been able to purchase an enhanced annuity in 2009. However, Prudential 
provided all the information they were required to in 2009. This information clearly explained 
that certain lifestyle and medical conditions may make an enhanced annuity an option. Mr D 
missed the opportunity to purchase an enhanced annuity, but this was by his own actions, 
not due to Prudential. 
In summary, I understand Mr D is likely to be disappointed by my decision. But with the 
evidence provided, and having seen he was made aware that certain lifestyle conditions 
would be a factor for considering an enhanced annuity, I cannot say that Prudential have 
failed to review his annuity purchase fairly. Nor can I say that Mr D wasnt made aware of 
enhanced annuities and the possible criteria in 2009. I therefore will not be asking Prudential 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman