DRN-2795032
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Independent Warranty (IW) under her deposit value protection 
certificate (the certificate). She believes that the certificate was mis-sold to her because a 
claim she made was subsequently declined.
In this decision reference is made to IW as the association that provided the certificate to 
Mrs R. Membership of the association was held by the window company (F) with whom Mrs 
R placed an order for windows. The certificate itself was underwritten by a separate insurer 
(A). 
What happened
Mrs R was given a quotation of £5,000 for some windows in November 2019 by F. Mrs R 
placed an order based on the quotation in December 2019 and paid two deposits of £1,000 
and then £1,500 to F. When she paid the deposits, Mrs R said she was told by F that her 
deposits would be protected in the event that F ceased trading before the windows were 
delivered and installed. Mrs R maintains that she wasnt told at the time who was protecting 
her deposits and no paperwork was provided. She subsequently received the certificate from 
IW in January 2020.
Mrs R then tried to contact F in February and March 2020 by email to clarify an aspect of her 
order but received no response. Mrs R then received an email in March 2020 from a director 
of F telling her that they had closed for business. It went on to explain that the insolvency 
practitioner would contact her and that F were trying to liaise with the manufacturer of the 
windows to ensure that her windows were delivered. The following day Mrs R received a 
further email from F telling her that her order had not been processed and that orders had 
virtually stopped in the last two to three months, and that her deposit had been used to 
support Fs cashflow.
Mrs R then contacted IW to make a claim on her certificate to get back her deposits. IW 
declined Mrs Rs claim in April 2020. The reason given was that she had paid a deposit of 
50% of the price of the windows she had ordered  but the maximum deposit covered by the 
certificate was 25%. IW also declined the claim because it had been more than 60 days 
since her placing the order and paying her deposits (60 days being the maximum period of 
time from the date of a deposit being placed that the certificate covered).
Mrs R was unhappy at her claim being declined, stating that she was told by F that they 
would only accept an order with a 50% deposit. She was also unhappy that she had been 
trying to contact F in February and March 2020, but only found out that they had ceased 
trading on 18th March  which was over 60 days from the date of the order and her deposit 
being paid  and that this was due to no fault on her part.
IW considered Mrs Rs complaint, but rejected it in June 2020, reiterating the reasons it had 
previously given for declining the claim.
Mrs R was unhappy at her complaint being rejected and complained to this service in June 
2020. She felt that the certificate had been mis-sold as it wasnt designed to cover the size of 
the deposit she had made. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. The investigator concluded that 
while it was clear that F required a 50% deposit for an order to be placed, the 
documentation provided with the deposit protection certificate clearly stated that the 
protection only lasted for 60 days from the placing of the order. The certificate also 
stated that any payments beyond 25% of the order value were not covered, and in 
addition that such payments would render the deposit paid null and void. The 
investigator also concluded that it was the actions of F that had led to the position of 
Mrs Rs claim being declined  not the actions of IW.
Mrs R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether IW has acted fairly towards Mrs R.
The main element of Mrs Rs complaint is that she was mis-sold the deposit protection and 
that she could not have known, at the time of paying her deposit, that the value of the 
deposit rendered the certificate null and void. She is also unhappy that she would have been 
unaware of F ceasing to trade until a point at which the period of protection provided by the 
certificate had expired.
Ive looked at the certificate provided by IW to Mrs R in January 2020. Ive noted that the 
terms and conditions set out on the certificate include the following statements:
The Deposit Value Protection is for 60 days only, from and including the date of 
payment of the deposit or until completion of the contract whichever is the earliest. 
The period may be extended, provided that a written request is always made by the 
Customer to IWA BEFORE the 60 day period expires. Any extension may be granted 
at the insurers, and/or IWAs sole discretion and provided always that the supplier 
has not already ceased trading
In the event of the supplier ceased to trade within the 60 day period (or longer if an 
extension has been requested and granted) and provided that a deposit of NO 
MORE than 25% of the total contract price has been paid, then IWA/Insurers 
willeither A) Get the works/contract completedOR B) Refund the deposit paid by 
the customer to the supplier of no more than 25% of the contract value.
Any payments made beyond the initial deposit (maximum 25% of the contract 
value) will not be covered and will also render the actual deposit paid covered 
by this policy null and void.
Ive also noted that while Mrs R was provided with the certificate in January 2020, it was only 
signed by her in April 2020.
Looking at the certificate and the terms and conditions, then its clear that F requiring Mrs R 
to pay a deposit of 50% of the value of the order had rendered that deposit null and void. 
Even had she paid a deposit of no more than 25% of the value of the order, the 60 day 
protection period would have expired on 24th February 2020. I recognise that at this time that 
Mrs R was trying to contact F in respect of her order, and it was not until she received an email from the director of F on 18th March 2020 that she became aware that the company 
had ceased trading.
IW told us that they made F aware of the terms and conditions under which they provided 
deposit value protection, including the 25% limit and that they expected F to act in 
accordance with those terms and conditions. Its clear that in this case, as Mrs R has 
acknowledged, that F accepted her deposit and that it would have known that in doing so the 
certificate would not have covered her deposit. The responsibility for this lies with F, and Mrs 
R has acknowledged that it was F that mis-sold the protection. In sending Mrs R a copy of 
the certificate after they (IW) had been notified of her deposit by F, then it would have been 
apparent that her deposit was not covered under the terms and conditions set out on the 
certificate itself. 
Mrs R questions whether it is acceptable for IW to accept premiums in respect of deposit 
protection that was  because of the value of the deposit being greater than the limit set by 
the terms and conditions  null and void. Ive considered this point, noting that Mrs R did not 
pay any premiums directly for the certificate (either to F or to IW) and that the premium terms 
under which the protection certificate was provided would be, as I understand it, a matter 
between F and IW.
 
In receiving from F details of deposits paid and the value of orders placed, then I agree that 
IW would have been aware that F were not complying with the terms and conditions under 
which they offered deposit protection. IW have said that they make firms aware of the terms 
and conditions, but what isnt clear is what action they take in the situation where they 
become aware that firms havent complied with those terms and conditions. That is a 
question for how IW structures and runs its operations, and as such falls outside the remit of 
this service.
Mrs R also raises a point about whether it is acceptable for IW not to inform her explicitly that 
the deposit protection she thought she was receiving was null and void from the start given 
the size of deposit she had been asked by F to make. While the certificate itself made this 
apparent, I agree that IW could have drawn this explicitly to her attention when they sent her 
the certificate. I also think that it is of questionable value for IW to send a certificate in 
respect of a deposit protection that was null and void from the outset.
IW have said that they werent made aware of F ceasing to trade until shortly before Mrs R 
herself was informed by F in March 2020 and I accept that this was the case. While this 
meant that the 60 day limit on deposit protection had expired and that Mrs R would not have 
been aware of the fact before it expired, I dont think that this can reasonably be held to be 
the responsibility of IW. IW have said that they use credit checking agencies to alert them to 
member firms that may be facing financial pressures, which is what I would expect. 
Ultimately, I dont think IW can be held responsible for F ceasing to trade.
I recognise that Mrs R has lost out financially, and I have sympathy with the position she 
finds herself in. I also understand why she feels she was mis-sold the deposit value 
protection. I agree, as Mrs R accepts, that the responsibility for any mis-selling lies in the 
first instance with F as I dont think they will have been unaware that requiring a 50% deposit 
rendered any deposit protection null and void under the terms and conditions that IW 
provided that protection. 
Taking these points into account, Ive concluded that overall IW have not acted 
unreasonably towards Mrs R.
 
I understand that Mrs R has explored other means of redress in respect of her deposit, 
including the possibility of a chargeback from her credit card provider for the second element of deposit that she paid and through the insolvency process for F. In my view the 
responsibility for this situation doesnt rest with IW, so I dont think its reasonable to ask 
them to put things right by reimbursing Mrs R.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman