DRN-2702985
The complaint
Miss Ns complaint is about the refusal of a claim under a mobile phone insurance policy
with Assurant Insurance Limited.
What happened
Miss N holds a mobile insurance policy with Assurant Insurance Limited as a benefit of her
bank account. Miss Ns daughters phone was covered by this policy. She reported a claim
on 12 November 2019, as her daughters phone was stolen along with her purse from her
handbag at a nightclub in the early hours of that morning. I understand the purse was later
found but was empty.
Miss N says the theft was reported to the police and she arranged for the phone to be
blocked by the service provider. Miss N has also provided evidence from the network
provider that the phone has not been used since.
Assurance refused to meet the claim. It said it had evidence that the phone was switched on
and restored on 15 November 2019. It said this means either the phone was not lost in the
way Miss N has reported, or the security measures that Miss N says were on the phone
(including password and face ID) werent. Assurant said these details would have needed to
have been entered in order to restore the phone on 15 November 2019.
Miss N is very unhappy about this. She says she has continually checked on the
manufacturers site and on the cloud to see if the phone has been activated and it has
always shown it as being offline. She asked for a replacement phone.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that the complaint be
upheld as he was satisfied that the evidence provided by Assurant showed that the phone
had been turned on and restored after the date of the theft and the security details would
have to have been entered for this to have happened.
Miss N didnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter was passed to
me.  Via the investigator, I asked for further clarification of the evidence that Assurant had 
provided about the restoration of the phone on 15 November 2019 and that it meant it could 
only have been done by someone who knew Miss Ns daughters security details. Assurant 
restated its position several times.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter stating that The evidence from the network 
provider shows the phone was blacklisted on 12 November 2019 and that was also the date 
it was last used to make a call or send a text. This evidence was provided on 25 November 
2019. However, further evidence was provided to Assurant that the phone was activated on 
15 November 2019 and the phone settings restored.
Assurant has also provided evidence to support its assertion that this could only be done if
Ms N had turned off the find my phone feature (then the phone can be restored using
another device, without needing to know any passwords), or by bypassing the facial
recognition and/or passcode security, which Assurant says is not possible.
I have no reason to doubt the evidence provided about the usage of the phone on 15
November 2019 and that this could only be done by someone that had Ms Ns security
information, or if she had deactivated the find my phone feature
Given this, I am not persuaded that Assurant has acted unreasonably in declining the claim.
has. Id emphasise that this isnt a question of me disbelieving Ms N. Instead, its a case of
what the evidence indicates to me. Taking all the evidence into account, I dont believe
Assurants treated her unfairly.
If Ms N can provide further evidence or information which might explain how the phone was
restored on 15 November 2019, then I will consider that before issuing my final decision.
It was only in response to this provisional decision that Ms N told us Assurant had in fact met 
the claim in April 2020.  Assurant had not mentioned this to us in response to any of the 
enquiries we had made of it. 
The investigator asked for an explanation from Assurant as to why it changed its decision on 
the claim. Assurant says it was an internal business process change that led to the decision 
being overturned.[and] We still believe the claim was correctly declined in line with the 
Terms and Conditions of the policy.  Assurant is also adamant that the fact it overturned its 
own refusal of the claim shouldnt change the outcome of this complaint. It says Miss N 
complained to it again after it met the claim and it refunded the £75 excess to her in 
response to that complaint. Assurant is adamant they are two separate matters. 
In light of the new evidence, the investigator then sent a further assessment of the 
complaint, in which he said compensation of £500 should be paid to Miss N for the trouble 
she had been caused, as Assurant had clearly accepted that it did not have grounds to 
refuse the claim.  
Assurant does not accept the investigators recommendation and so the matter has been 
referred back to me. Assurant says that following further evidence being provided by the 
manufacturer, it reviewed the claim. The decision to overturn the claim was due to an 
internal business change. It says the claim was correctly declined based on the evidence 
available at the time and that evidence has not changed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am quite at a loss as to why Assurant would not think it relevant that it had decided to meet 
a claim when we are dealing with a complaint about the refusal of that very claim. 
In answer to the questions about why the claim had been met, Assurant said it was as a 
result of a change of internal processes. I note that in the telephone call in which Miss N was 
told her claim would be met she was told that Assurant had reviewed any claims that had 
been refused over the last year and decided her claim was incorrectly declined. The adviser 
said Assurant had been liaising with the manufacturer [about the evidence regarding 
restoration dates on the phone] and based on the correspondence received from them weve 
changed our stance on that.
 
It seems clear to me therefore that the manufacturer told Assurant that its interpretation of 
the restoration date was not correct and that it could not rely on the fact the phone was showing a restoration date to say this could only have been done by Miss Ns daughter, or 
with her involvement, and that the claim was therefore fraudulent. 
The investigator went back with queries about that very same evidence, which Assurant had 
provided to support the refusal, on several occasions. Assurant repeatedly confirmed it stood 
by that evidence, even though it had decided several months earlier that it could no longer 
do so. 
Given this, it seems clear to me that the claim was incorrectly refused. 
 
Assurant is adamant that the fact it overturned its own refusal of the claim shouldnt change 
the outcome of this complaint. This complaint is about the incorrect refusal of Miss Ns claim 
and Assurant has now accepted the claim should have been met. I fail to understand how 
Assurant thinks this is irrelevant to the outcome of this complaint. Even if individual claims-
handlers had made the decision to refuse to meet the claim in good faith, it is still relevant 
that the claim has since been met and its decision overturned. I cannot make a final decision 
that Assurant was right to refuse the claim, when the evidence it relied on to do so does not 
stand up. 
Not only was the claim incorrectly refused but Miss N was effectively accused of fraud, and 
that accusation continued throughout the complaint (even after Assurant knew it did not have 
grounds to state this) and this entire process was prolonged unnecessarily. It is my decision 
that the investigators latest view is reasonable and Assurant should pay compensation of 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss N by its handling of the claim. This 
is to include the distress of the incorrect refusal of the claim; being accused of making a 
fraudulent claim, when there is not sufficient evidence to support that; and the delay in 
meeting the claim and forcing Miss N to continue this complaint unnecessarily. For the 
avoidance of doubt, this is in addition to the refund of the policy excess. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to pay 
Miss N the sum of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of this claim.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman