DRN-4443995
The complaint
Ms S complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined her claim 
for treatment to her cat due to existence of a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Ms S said her cat was clinically healthy when she acquired her cat. Ms S her cat was playing 
with a catnip toy and ate some of it. After the cat had been vomiting for a few days, Ms S 
took the cat to her vet to ensure nothing was wrong. Following investigations, the vet wasnt 
sure on the diagnosis, but suggested possible causes as irritable bowel disease (IBD) or 
lymphoma  this was followed up with treatment.
Recognising the financial risk of owning a pet, Ms S then chose to take out a pet insurance 
policy with Great Lakes in June 2022 to protect herself in the future if her pet became ill.
Around three months later, Ms S cat had a regular check-up with the vet which didnt throw 
up anything abnormal. Then a further four months passed as Ms S was concerned her cat 
wasnt eating properly. Over the next few weeks further investigations were carried out and 
Ms S cat was diagnosed with severe anaemia and elevated kidney levels. There was also a 
suspected heart murmur identified. Unfortunately, in April 2023, Ms S cat passed away from 
acute kidney failure. 
Ms S submitted a claim for all the costs she incurred from her vet. All costs were declined by 
Great Lakes, as it said the treatments were excluded from the policy as the costs incurred 
related to a pre-existing condition before the policy was taken out. Im pleased to see since 
our investigators involvement that some costs have since been paid by Great Lakes for 
investigations and treatment relating to the heart issue. 
However, Ms S is unhappy her other claims have been declined. Shes unhappy how her 
claim has been handled  she is financially impacted, and the events have taken a 
significant toll on her own welfare.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought it was likely the second set 
of investigative tests and examinations were linked to those carried out pre-policy, so 
thought Great Lakes had been fair to say the illness was linked to a pre-existing condition.  
Ms S disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 12 October 2023. I said:
Ive checked the policy. It states that the insurer wont pay for costs relating to pre-existing 
conditions. The policy defines a pre-existing condition as anything your pet has had 
treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months. We consider advice to include 
anything a vet observed and recorded in your pets clinical history.
I think the policy is clear that costs related to pre-existing conditions arent covered by the 
policy, so I think if Great Lakes has proven its more likely the costs were related, then Id 
say it has been fair to decline the claim. However, I dont think they have, so I intend to 
uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Its Great Lakes responsibility to show an exclusion in the policy applies and I dont think the 
evidence shows a link to the pre-existing condition is more likely than not. Ive read the vets 
notes from the visit pre-policy and I think its clear the vet isnt entirely sure what the cause of 
the illness is  he offered two possible diagnoses, neither of which was proved.
Then, Ms S had a check up three months later and nothing too concerning was identified. 
So, it was about seven months later before Ms S was worried enough to take her cat to the 
vet again. I think this is a long time to say the two conditions was linked. The first visit was 
also triggered after the cat had played with a toy and had potentially digested part of it. So, 
this further brings into doubt a link in my mind.
I can see Great Lakes initially declined all costs even though its technical referral form 
suggests some of these mightve been acceptable. This has further been evidenced by 
Great Lakes changing its mind on part of the costs relating to the heart issue. The team 
leader recommended technical referral as no definitive diagnosis pre or post inception and a 
complicated claim with several conditions which are likely related. The technical claim 
manager concluded from looking at the medical history and the treatment dates listed 
above, it looks to be continuous investigations into finding a diagnosis. There is also
similar symptoms throughout the same time-period. Along with no confirmed diagnosis at 
any point, we feel this is seen as pre-existing. 
I dont find Great Lakes assessment persuasive. Both the team manager and the technical 
claim manager are consistent in saying no diagnosis was given. The technical manager 
appears to be providing a hunch by saying he feels this is pre-existing, rather than an 
evidence-based assessment that proves the link in conditions is more likely. Therefore, 
based on the evidence, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend Great Lakes to reconsider 
the claim(s) in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Any further settlement that is paid, I intend Great Lakes to add 8% interest per annum 
(simple) from the date of the claim(s) to the date any settlement is paid as Ms S will have 
been without this money. I think Great Lakes couldve handled this claim better. It didnt 
refund the costs for the heart issues first time and I think it likely there are other costs that 
shouldve been paid when the claims are re-considered. I think this is likely to have impacted 
Ms S wellbeing as well as having a financial impact. Therefore, I intend to award £300 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms S accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything else to add.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Re-consider the claims in line with the remaining terms and conditions
Add 8% interest per annum (simple) from the date of the claim(s) to the date any 
settlement is paid
Pay Ms S £300 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman