DRN-3830366
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Lloyds Bank PLC has not properly adjusted their mortgage to 
reflect that it had previously automatically capitalised arrears. They also said that the 
monthly payment was wrong and that Lloyds was not answering their questions about the 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O have a mortgage with Lloyds. They said that Lloyds hasnt calculated the 
balance of the mortgage correctly following the guidance  issued to lenders on automatic 
capitalisation of arrears by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (FG17/4  The fair 
treatment of mortgage customers in payment shortfall; impact of automatic capitalisations). 
In summary, the FCA found that some mortgage lenders had not been calculating monthly 
payments correctly  theyd been including the arrears balance when calculating the monthly 
payment, while continuing to treat the mortgage as being in arrears. The FCA said that 
lenders should remediate the accounts of those affected. 
Mr and Mrs O said that Lloyds had remediated their mortgage properly  and that it wont 
communicate with them about the balance of their mortgage. They also said that the monthly 
mortgage payment is too high. They consider Lloyds is including the arrears balance when it 
calculates the monthly payment.
The investigator said, wed already looked at a number of complaints about this matter from 
Mr and Mrs O. So she was only looking at events from June 2018  not anything wed 
considered before. She didnt consider the FCA guidance had not been implemented 
correctly.
Mr and Mrs O did not accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that this complaint means a lot to Mr and Mrs O. Their mortgage has been in a 
significant amount of arrears for many years. That means that their home is at risk of 
repossession. So I understand why they want to make sure Lloyds has administered their 
mortgage correctly  they already have a large shortfall to make up. 
Ive looked very carefully at what happened and considered everything Mr and Mrs O have 
said. Having done so, I cant see there has been any mistake by the bank in remediating Mr 
and Mrs Os mortgage.
I appreciate this isnt straightforward  and not something Mr and Mrs O should have had to 
think about. Its clear that up until 2018, Lloyds was not administering the mortgage as it 
should have. But Im afraid some of the conclusions Mr and Mrs O have reached are wrong.
Lloyds did automatically capitalise arrears on Mr and Mrs Os mortgage in the past. But Ive 
not seen any persuasive evidence that the reconstitution carried out in 2018 has not 
remedied that in line with the FCA guidance. I consider that is a fair and reasonable way to 
put things right.
When Lloyds automatically capitalised the arrears, it calculated the monthly payment based 
on the total mortgage balance, including the arrears. If those payments were made in full 
and on time, the mortgage would be repaid at the end of the agreed term. Yet, Lloyds kept 
the arrears in place and continued recovery action in respect of the arrears.
It was those things together that were unfair. It meant contractual payments were higher 
than they should have been and that it might take longer to repay arrears if an agreement 
could be reached. It also meant that if Lloyds made an arrangement to repay the arrears on 
top of the contractual monthly payment, there may have been an element of double billing.
The FCA guidance required Lloyds to rework the mortgage as if the arrears had not been 
automatically capitalised  and to use any difference between the amount actually paid and 
what would have been paid had the monthly payment been set correctly to reduce the 
arrears balance. 
Ive not seen any evidence that following the remediation, Lloyds is calculating the monthly 
payment based on the total balance including the arrears. The remediation framework within 
the FCA guidance only requires a credit to the arrears balance. Lloyds made such a credit. I 
havent seen any evidence that there are arrears within the mortgage balance that Lloyds 
uses to calculate the monthly payment or that Lloyds hasnt remediated the account in line 
with FCA guidance.
The fact that the contractual monthly payment has not dropped to the level set out in the 
2011 offer does not mean there has been a mistake. Looking at the payments Lloyds have 
collected following the remediation, it seems very unlikely that arrears were included in the 
calculation of the monthly payment. I have done some rough calculations. If the arrears had 
been included the monthly payment would have been significantly higher than the amount 
Lloyds has claimed. 
Mr and Mrs O have not put forward any persuasive arguments or evidence that the payment 
is wrong. I am not persuaded that Lloyds has made any mistake in calculating the 
contractual monthly payment.
Mr and Mrs O appear confused about a previous offer from Lloyds to consolidate the arrears 
on their mortgage. This is the same as capitalisation. The difference though is that it would 
not be automatic and it would extinguish the arrears. It would also require Mr and Mrs O to 
agree to it. Capitalising arrears is a legitimate form of forbearance for Lloyds to offer 
customers who are in arrears.
I note the last piece of evidence Mr and Mrs O have provided  a letter from a firm of 
solicitors dated 8 March 2018, which says that its preliminary report strongly suggests that 
your lender has miscalculated the payment schedule for your mortgage and overcharged 
interest. First, the letter is dated before Lloyds reconstituted the account. Second, the letter 
does not say that any error Lloyds may have made was the same as the one Mr and Mrs O 
are complaining about here. Third, the letter does not state categorically that there has been 
a mistake by Lloyds. I dont consider this helps Mr and Mrs O in their complaint. 
I know that Mr and Mrs O will be reluctant to accept what Ive said. They are clearly very 
invested in this complaint. But there is no evidence that Lloyds has not remediated the 
account correctly. The mortgage remains significantly in arrears. Lloyds is not required to communicate with Mr and Mrs O further in regard to this complaint. So it is not unreasonable 
for it to refuse to answer further questions from Mr and Mrs O regarding the matters raised in 
this complaint. 
The only way for Mr and Mrs O to move on is if they meaningfully engage with Lloyds 
regarding the arrears on the account. This would usually involve giving Lloyds details of their 
income and expenditure so it can assess whether there is a viable and affordable way for Mr 
and Mrs O to get the mortgage back on track  and whether there is any forbearance Lloyds 
can offer to help them. But it is a two-way street. From what I can see Lloyds is keen to 
discuss what Mr and Mrs Os options are. It is up to them whether they do that or not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman