DRN-3252972
The complaint
Ms B complains Leeds City Credit Union Limited wouldnt grant her a loan because shes 
unable to set up a direct debit or standing order to make the loan repayments.
What happened
Ms B tried a number of times to apply for a loan with Leeds Credit Union. These applications 
were declined because Ms B isnt able to set up a direct debit or standing order to make the 
loan repayments.
Ms B explained to Leeds Credit Union why she wasnt able to make the repayments in the 
way it required  she has mental health conditions that mean this isnt possible. She said 
Leeds Credit Union was discriminating against her and she pointed out that shed had 
previous loans with it that shed repaid by Faster Payments without any issues.
Leeds Credit Union said its policy is that members are required to have a fixed method of 
payment in place before any loan can be allocated. 
Since Ms B referred her complaint to us, Leeds Credit Union has confirmed it could have 
allowed Ms B to have a loan she could repay using Faster Payments. It says it regrets its 
response to her request and has more recently granted Ms B two loans. It has agreed to 
offer Ms B £200 as compensation for the distress its actions caused.
Our investigator thought Leeds Credit Unions offer was fair and explained this to Ms B. 
Ms B disagreed as she didnt think £200 was enough to recognise the distress shed been 
caused or the length of time it has taken to sort out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Leeds Credit Union has the policy it does with regards to wanting a fixed 
method of payment in place before agreeing to any loans. It is fair for it to want some 
assurance the payments will be made on time each month. It also goes some way to protect 
its members against the consequences of missing payments. But I do think it should have 
done more to consider whether it was fair to apply the policy, or whether there was anything 
else it could do, given Ms Bs particular circumstances when she explained why she couldnt 
set up a direct debit or standing order.
Im pleased Leeds Credit Union has now recognised it didnt handle this situation as well as 
it should have. And it has now allowed Ms B to have loans she can repay by Faster 
Payments. So the main issue I need to decide is whether the offer of £200 compensation for 
the distress Ms B was caused as a result of Leeds Credit Unions actions is fair and 
reasonable.
Theres no doubt it would have been distressing for Ms B to be told she couldnt have a loan 
if she didnt set up a standing order or direct debit, particularly when shed explained why 
she couldnt a number of times. From what Ive seen, Leeds Credit Unions response when 
she complained wouldnt have made Ms B feel like shed been listened to or that any 
consideration had been given about whether it was fair to apply its usual policy in her 
situation. I can see why Ms B might have thought Leeds Credit Union was discriminating 
against her. And when Ms B tried to escalate matters, she ended up with a response from 
the same person, which must have been frustrating.
It did take a long time to get to a point where Leeds Credit Union accepted it hadnt treated 
Ms B fairly. And Ive no doubt this must have added to Ms Bs upset about the situation. But 
Im only considering the impact Leeds Credit Unions actions had on Ms B here. Most of the 
delays Ms B has experienced were caused by the Financial Ombudsman, rather than Leeds 
Credit Union. So it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it to pay compensation for the distress this 
caused.
Overall I think £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Leeds Credit Union caused Ms B.
My final decision
Leeds City Credit Union Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Leeds City Credit Union Limited should pay £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman