DRN-4177750
The complaint
Mr A complains about the information Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is reporting to credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) regarding two loan accounts. 
What happened
Mr A has two loan agreements with Barclays:
Loan 1 - £23,500. Monthly instalments of £503
Loan 2 - £3,000. Monthly instalments of £154
In April 2022, he contacted Barclays to say he was experiencing financial difficulty but he 
expected the situation to improve within a few months. Following an assessment of his 
financial circumstances, Barclays agreed to a three month payment holiday meaning interest 
was temporarily suspended, they cancelled the direct debits and put a hold on any demand 
letters. Mr A was told to contact Barclays again in a few months time so they could 
reconsider his situation. He was told if four payments were missed, default proceedings 
would likely commence.
In July 2022, Mr A contacted Barclays to discuss his situation as it had improved. He was 
told if he made the loan payments for the next three months, the arrears (subject to the 
payment holiday) would be added to the end of the loans. In August 2022, Mr A resumed 
making the payments. In September 2022, Barclays agreed to defer the arrears to the end of 
the loans, thereby extending the terms.
However around November 2022, Mr A complained Barclays had recorded adverse 
information on his credit file about these two loans period and it was impacting his ability to 
re-mortgage. 
Barclays said they had reported correct information to the CRAs and Mr A was told about the 
impact of the payment holiday and the arrangement to pay plans during phone calls and in 
their written correspondence to him. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr A referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. She concluded Barclays had treated Mr A 
reasonably and the information reported to the CRAs by Barclays was fair. Mr A disagreed 
and maintained his position.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why. 
When a consumer experiences financial difficulty, I expect the firm to treat them with 
forbearance and due consideration. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays 
did that. They fully considered Mr As financial circumstances including his incoming and 
outgoing expenses and after having done so, they agreed to a three month payment holiday. 
They also agreed to defer the arrears to the end of the loan without incurring any additional 
interest. 
From my understanding, Mr A isnt complaining about that. Instead hes unhappy that as a 
result of the above and once he resumed paying the monthly instalments in August 2022, 
adverse information was recorded by Barclays to the CRAs. I consider that to be the key 
complaint issue so in this decision I will focus on that. 
I must stress financial businesses like Barclays are required to report accurate and fair 
information to CRAs about how an individual is managing their account.
Ive listened to the calls concerned with this complaint. I understand they were sent to Mr A 
but for some reason he was unable to listen to them but the reason is unknown.  However I 
can reassure him that Ive managed to and I can hear exactly what was said. 
During the initial call in April 2022 when the payment holiday was agreed, I can hear Mr A 
was told that as he wont be paying the monthly instalments for the next few months this 
would affect his credit file. He was also told it may impact his ability to obtain credit in the 
future. The advisor confirmed as this would be an informal arrangement it wouldnt be 
recorded as an arrangement to pay on his credit file.  So I dont agree with his comments 
that he was told the missed payments wouldnt be reported to the CRAs. Although I can hear 
Mr A said he understood this, I accept that perhaps he was confused about how the missed 
payments would report and whether an arrangement to pay would be recorded. 
Following the call, Barclays confirmed the payment holiday arrangement in writing on both 
loans. I note Mr As comments he didnt receive the same but I can see they were correctly 
addressed and theres insufficient evidence to say they werent sent. On balance, Im 
satisfied they were sent by Barclays to Mr A. 
The letters say When you miss or make reduced payments with us, we'll let the Credit 
Reference Agencies know. This means that if you apply for credit elsewhere, you could be 
charged a higher interest rate - or even refused completely.
I find this information to be consistent with what Mr A was told over the phone. 
During Julys call when discussing whether Mr A was in the position to re-start making 
payments, I can hear the advisor say We dont want it showing as missed payments to the CRA any longer than it needs to be. So again, I find Mr A was told any missed payments 
would impact his credit file. 
In July 2022, Barclays sent correspondence to Mr A outlining their intentions to defer the 
three missed payments to the end of the loan (the arrears). The letter outlined what actions 
Mr A needed to take for this to happen including making sure the next three payments were 
met (referred to as step 1). It also said the following:
We will continue to give information about your account to credit reference agencies. Until 
you complete step 1, this information will continue to show that your account is in arrears 
and that there is a temporary repayment arrangement in place (different credit reference 
agencies may show this arrangement differently). This may impact your ability to obtain 
future credit 
Based on the above, it was made clear until Mr A made all the payments for the next three 
months (step 1), it would report to the CRAs as an arrangement to pay. Which is what 
happened in this case, for a period of no more than three months Barclays recorded the 
accounts were in an arrangement to pay. After that period ended (step 1) and as Mr A 
continued to meet the monthly instalments, it was reported to the CRAs that payments were 
met on time and there were no arrears. Which would indicate the accounts were brought 
back up to date. 
Ive carefully considered the loan statements and Mr As credit report. Having done so, I find  
the information reported by Barclays to the CRAs is fair. I say this because it shows missed 
payments for no longer than three months (to reflect the payment holiday). It also shows 
there was an arrangement to pay for no longer than a three month period (to reflect step 1 
as outlined above) and thereafter, the account was back up to date.
In summary, Im satisfied Barclays treated Mr A fairly during his time of financial difficulty and 
reasonably made him aware of the subsequent impact on his credit file and how it may affect 
his ability to get credit in the future. I find the information they recorded to the CRAs is a fair 
reflection of how the accounts were being managed at the time so I wont be asking Barclays 
to do anything to resolve this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by the outcome. I recognise the difficult time hes been 
through and his added frustration about trying to re-mortgage in order to improve his 
financial situation but I hope he accepts these findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman