DRN-3709644
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has declined a claim made under his 
furniture warranty. 
What happened
In September 2018 Mr B purchased a furniture suite, and alongside this, an extended five-
year warranty underwritten by Amtrust.
In late 2021, Mr B noticed a mark on one of the cushions and reported this to Amtrust. As 
Mr B wasnt sure of the cause of damage, Amtrust didnt accept the claim. Mr B approached 
the retailer who inspected the furniture but didnt conclude there was a manufacturing fault.
Mr B contacted Amtrust again, and they inspected the furniture and damage. Following tests, 
Amtrust declined the claim. They said the damage was the result of head or body oils 
leaching into the material, which had eventually caused the leather to peel. And they said 
this had been caused over time, which is excluded under the policy.
Mr B remained unhappy and approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said several 
diagnostic tests were carried out which showed the cause of damage had occurred over 
time, which is excluded under Mr Bs policy. So, she said Amtrust hadnt acted unfairly by 
declining the claim.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs furniture warranty covers accidental damage and staining. But alongside the covered 
events, there are a number of exclusions, as outlined in the policy terms and conditions. 
Amtrust has relied on the following exclusion when declining the claim:
SECTION 4  WHAT IS NOT COVERED
Your product is not covered for:
6. any gradually occurring stain or damage, any gradually occurring general soiling 
which results in build up and any multiple stains occurring over a period of time; 
Ive seen the report completed by Amtrusts representative who inspected the furniture. They 
concluded:
3 seater I found peeling leather to the front of the left hand seat and customer 
doesnt know what caused this to happen but noticed this in Dec/21. Due to leather 
being sticky and rubbery I carried out a leather diagnostic evidence tests. I carried 
out a 30 dry and 30 wet rub test to a non-exposed area, a traffic area and the claim 
area and there was change to claim area only. I then carried out a heat test to a 
traffic area and the claim area and there was change to the claim area only. I also 
carried out a PH test to a non-exposed area and the claim area and there was 
change to the claim area only. This is therefore an ingress of (head grease) or (body 
oils).
So, based on this, it does appear that comprehensive testing was carried out to determine 
the cause. And Amtrusts reasons when declining the claim reflects the conclusions reached 
by their representative, and the policy terms and exclusions.
Mr B has said his policy document says it covers accidental staining and human and 
domestic pet bodily fluids. But as outlined, the policy terms also have a number of 
exclusions. And within these, there is an exclusion (which Amtrust has relied on) which says 
gradually caused damage isnt covered. 
I do acknowledge Mr B doesnt agree with the conclusions reached during the inspection 
and has disputed it could be body or hair oil based on the location of damage. However, no 
other expert report, tests or evidence has been provided which shows the incorrect 
conclusions have been reached when the tests were carried out.
So in the absence of any expert report which demonstrates there has been another cause of 
damage, or that the conclusions and test results carried out by Amtrust are incorrect, Im 
unable to conclude Amtrust has acted unfairly by relying on its experts conclusions, and 
declining the claim based on the policy exclusions.
Mr B has also more recently mentioned he was told by the retailer everything would be 
covered when purchasing his furniture and taking out the policy. However, Ive only 
considered the claim decision reached by Amtrust here. If Mr B is unhappy with the sale of 
his furniture and the policy, hed need to raise a separate complaint about that with whoever 
was responsible for the sale.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman