DRN-4020738
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) caused damage to 
her heating system when carrying out repairs following an escape of water, under her home 
buildings insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs K contacted Lloyds after noticing an escape of water originating from her loft space. She 
arranged for the leak to be resolved. Lloyds then carried out repairs to the ceiling that had 
been damaged and some other areas that had been affected. 
Mrs K says that following the repairs her central heating developed issues. This meant that 
she had to use electric heaters at an additional cost. She explains she is a pensioner and 
was left with a defective heating system during the winter months. Mrs K says the problem 
was caused by silt from a water tank that was moved without first being cleaned. She says 
this has blocked the central heating pipes. 
Lloyds says the water tank was poorly installed originally around twenty years ago. This 
caused the joists it was sat on to bend, which was unsafe and meant it wasnt possible to 
repair the damaged ceiling beneath. It says plumbing work wasnt covered under Mrs Ks 
claim, but it had to reposition the water tank in order to carry out the repairs. This benefitted 
Mrs K as it meant the water tank was correctly positioned. 
Mrs K says she had her boiler serviced in September 2022. There were no problems, and it 
was working fine. She believes Lloydss contractors are at fault for causing the heating 
system blockage. 
Lloyds says there was a danger of the water tank falling as the support beneath was 
severely weakened. The work to resolve this issue wasnt covered under Mrs Ks policy but it 
says she was unlikely to be able to resolve this issue without assistance. It says cleaning out 
any part of the system isnt something covered under the policy. Lloyds says there are a 
number of issues with the way the system was installed originally, also that sludge has built 
up over time, which is likely to be the cause of the problem Mrs K complained about. 
Mrs K says the problem occurred after the water tank was moved and wants Lloyds to pay 
the cost of the additional electricity used by the electric heaters she had to run. It didnt 
agree so she referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. He thought the evidence showed issues 
with the original installation, and a lack of maintenance of the heating system, had caused 
sludge to build up over time. He agreed with Lloyds that this was the likely reason for the 
issues Mrs K complained about. 
Mrs K disagreed. She says Lloyds has failed to show a duty of care, which left her without 
heating during the winter months. Because of this she asked for an ombudsman to consider 
her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mrs Ks policy terms to understand the cover she has in place. I can see shes 
covered for an escape of water under section eight of her buildings insurance policy. This 
says:
The leak must be from a home appliance, or fixed water or heating system. This doesnt 
include damage to the home appliance or water or heating system itself. Examples of a 
home appliance or fixed water or heating system are tanks, pipes, washing machines, or 
water mains.
Whether Mrs Ks claim was covered by her policy isnt in dispute. So, I neednt consider this 
point further. From the records provided by Lloyds Mrs K was able to use the home 
emergency cover she had in place to have a plumber stop the leak. The leak originated from 
the water tank in Mrs Ks loft  as per the terms above, resolving the cause of the leak isnt 
covered by her buildings insurance policy so it was necessary for her to arrange this herself. 
Im glad she had cover in place to resolve this. 
In its claim records Lloyds says it wasnt possible for its contractor to carry out repairs to the 
ceiling that had been damaged by the escape of water, without first moving the water tank 
and repairing the bent joists. I can see from the notes it was determined that the curve in the 
joists, caused by the weight of the water tank over many years, obstructed the ceiling 
repairs. The notes say the joists werent damaged by the escape of water. So, this wasnt 
covered under Mrs Ks claim. However, the decision was made to move the water tank and 
provide it with the correct support. In addition, the joists were repaired in order to allow 
repairs to the ceiling and to ensure the water tank wasnt posing a danger. 
Ive thought about Lloydss decision to include these repairs in the scope of its work for this 
claim. When an insured event occurs, we expect an insurer to indemnify their policyholder 
for the loss they have incurred, in-line with the terms and conditions of their policy. That is to 
say the policyholder should be put back in their pre-loss position. 
In this case Mrs Ks ceiling had been damaged by the escape of water but repairs were 
impeded by the damaged joists  and there was a danger of further damage if the water tank 
was left in its original position. In these circumstances I think Lloyds acted reasonably in 
carrying out the repairs it did and moving the water tank to a position with the correct 
support. This did result in an element of betterment for Mrs K. That is to say her water tank 
and joists were improved by the work Lloydss contractor carried out. And strictly speaking 
this isnt something her policy provides for.
The crux of Mrs Ks complaint here is that her heating system developed issues after the 
repairs were carried out by Lloydss contractor. I can see from the records provided that her 
lounge radiator wasnt working. And I note her comments that she felt unsupported by 
Lloyds, and she had to use electric heaters at an additional cost.
I can see from Mrs Ks correspondence that she refers to making arrangements for her boiler 
to be replaced. And that Lloyds records indicate Mrs K was having a new heating system installed with the aid of a grant. The indication being that the heating system was in need of 
renewal. 
Ive seen a job visit note that Mrs K provided following a visit from a plumber. This note was 
written after the repairs carried out by Lloyds. It says:
Flue and condense [sic] fitted poorly on boiler. Issues with heating not working is due to 
restrictions, blockages. Tanks in loft have recently been moved heating expansion tank was 
never cleaned out. Sludge in system Both tanks have been installed poorly, no bylaw kits, no 
lagging on pipework, pipework running uphill in places. Would require pretty long duration 
work to resolve pipework issue, still wouldnt be able to guarantee full repair as blockage 
could also be in the boiler.
Lloyds records show this report was shown to its contractors who carried out the repairs. It 
responded to say all of these issues were pre-existing and not on the schedule of work it 
was instructed to undertake. More specifically it comments that the sludge was a pre-existing 
issue, the tanks werent replaced only moved and the remaining points relate to how the 
system was originally installed. The contractor says the report reads that the plumber had 
issues with the whole plumbing and heating system at the property. It says this isnt related 
to the escape of water claim. It says if there is a blockage this would be due to no lids being 
in place on the tanks, which is again a pre-existing issue. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Lloyds treated Mrs K fairly when she reported having 
issues with her heating system after its repairs. I think it did. From the evidence there are a 
number of issues with the original installation of Mrs Ks heating system that need 
addressing, and that are likely to have contributed to a build-up of sludge. 
Sludge build-up in a heating system does happen over time and measures can be taken to 
minimise the impact. This can include adding inhibitors to the system as mentioned by 
Lloyds. I note Mrs Ks comments that she has her boiler serviced and that this is all that 
should be required. However, over time issues can occur with a build-up of material within a 
heating system and this can result in blockages. This is what Lloyds believes has caused the 
heating issues Mrs K reported after its repairs.    
I acknowledge Mrs Ks comments the problem only occurred after her water tank was 
moved. I dont disagree the problem she reported occurred after Lloyds completed the 
repairs. But I dont think Lloyds is responsible for this issue. The blockage is most probably 
due to the age of the system and a gradual build-up of material within it, over a long period 
of time. 
Mrs Ks policy terms say:
What this policy doesnt cover
Some things arent covered under any part of this policy. This section will tell you the things 
you cant make a claim for.  Wear and tear, normal use & damage over time.
We wont pay claims for:  Damage that happens as something gets older. This is known as 
wear and tear.
Keeping your home in good condition
Its up to you to make sure you keep your home in good condition. We wont pay claims for 
the cost of maintaining your home. We also wont pay claims for the cost of any damage that 
happens due to a lack of maintenance.   
I accept Mrs Ks comments that she had her boiler regularly serviced. But this wouldnt prevent a build of sludge over time in the system. In these circumstances I think Lloyds 
behaved reasonably when carrying out the repairs it did. But this wasnt the underlying 
cause of the issues Mrs K subsequently experienced. 
Im sorry Mrs K experienced problems with her heating system, but I dont think Lloyds 
treated her unfairly when handling her claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman