DRN-2612812
The complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs C took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card whilst shopping in the store in January 2004. 
The policy covered Mrs C in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly 
and became unemployed. It cost 89p per £100 of the amount owed on her account each 
month. It paid 10% of the outstanding monthly balance while Mrs C was off work until she 
either returned to work or the account balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Mrs C disagreed. 
Mrs C mainly said that the insurance wasnt needed as she had good sick pay benefits as 
well as other ways she couldve covered her monthly repayments if she wasnt able to work.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Cs application.
Mrs C has signed in the section headed, in bold type and block capitals: PAYMENT 
PROTECTION INSURANCE APPLICATION next to where it says Yes, I would like to 
protect my Account with Payment Protection Please debit my Account with the relevant 
monthly premium until further notice. 
It also says: Only sign if you want payment protection.
I dont know what (if anything) mightve been said to Mrs C about the PPI. But I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs C to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Mrs C also signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to 
be legally bound by its terms. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs C wouldve first read through anything she was asked to 
sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it seems to me that by signing the 
form Mrs C was indicating that she agreed with the information on the form at the time.  
Ive no doubt that Mrs C feels certain about everything shes told us. But I have to look at all 
the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA didnt make Mrs C 
aware that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account without her consent. 
On balance, I think AXA did enough to make Mrs C aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI and that she chose to take it. 
I dont think AXA advised Mrs C to take out the PPI. But it still had to provide Mrs C with 
enough clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to have it. 
Looking at the terms that I think wouldve applied to Mrs C, it appears she was eligible for 
the policy. And it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve made any difference to Mrs Cs decision to take out PPI. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs C was off work sick or disabled. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that she couldve depended on her employer to do this or 
that she was contractually entitled to expect this to happen. Mrs C told us that her employer 
wouldve paid 8 weeks full pay then half pay for 6 months if she needed to be off work for an 
injury or sickness. So it looks like the policy provided significantly better cover than Mrs C 
couldve relied on through work.
This benefit was also available to Mrs C in the event that she became unexpectedly 
unemployed.
Circumstances can change so depending on someone else to help out in the event of money 
problems isnt as reliable as having PPI. And having PPI meant Mrs C wasnt at risk of being 
forced to sell her car  perhaps when she mightnt get as much as she hoped for or she 
needed it for transport. If she wasnt able to work, I dont think its likely that Mrs C wouldve 
wanted to be forced to sell her home just because she couldnt afford to make her monthly 
store card repayments. Having PPI guaranteed the payments would be made for her if she 
wasnt able to work. 
So I think Mrs C couldve benefitted from having the policy.
There was an indication of the way the monthly cost of the PPI would be worked out on the 
application Mrs C completed. Beyond that, I dont know how the cost was explained to 
Mrs C. So Ive assessed her complaint on the basis that AXA didnt explain the cost of the 
policy as clearly as it shouldve done. But, taking everything into account, I think if Mrs C had 
properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the policy 
potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for 
Mrs C  and she took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the cover and 
was happy to pay for it, knowing what her circumstances were at the time. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs C off taking out 
the policy.
This means that, even if AXA didnt give Mrs C all the information it shouldve done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs C has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did 
wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman