DRN-3173931
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave her unsuitable advice when 
recommending she transfer the benefits from her occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She also says the underlying investments were too 
high risk for her. 
Mrs T is represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease, all comments and actions will 
be noted as Mrs Ts.
What happened
Mrs T met Portal in October 2011. It recorded that she wanted to discuss whether it would 
be in her best interests to transfer her OPS to an alternative provider whilst receiving a tax-
free cash lump sum.
Portal completed a fact find on 4 October 2011 noting that Mrs T:
was 57 years old and married; she hoped to retire at 64;
was in good health;
had grown up dependents and a grandchild who she helped to support;
worked full time and earned roughly £1,700 a month net. She also received other 
income of around £200 a month. Mrs Ts husband was retired and earned an income 
of around £1,000 a month from annuities;
owned a property worth approximately £175,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£55,000. She was making monthly mortgage payments of £1,078 and still had about 
five years left to run on her mortgage;
had an outstanding loan of £5,000 and was making payments of £170 a month. The 
loan had about three years left to run;  
had credit card balances of £4,500 and was making repayments of £200 a month;
had a life assurance policy (connected to the mortgage) worth about £5,000. She 
paid £50 a month towards this;
After meeting her financial commitments, Portal noted she had a net disposable 
income of £50 a month or less; 
had two OPS:
oemployer A  with a transfer value of £32,953 (critical yield 10.6%)
oemployer B  with a transfer value of £71,864 (critical yield 9.2%)
Portal noted that Mrs T wanted to take the maximum tax-free cash from her OPS with 
employer A in order to pay off debts. But she didnt want to take an income at that time and 
instead wanted to invest the remainder of her OPS. She wasnt looking for advice in relation 
to transferring her OPS with employer B although Portal noted that she hoped to take early 
retirement from that employment in due course. In the meantime, shed continue to build up 
her pensionable service. Portal also noted that, in time, Mrs T intended to start up her own 
business, which was another reason for wanting to reduce her debts. 
In its suitability report Portal noted Mrs T had no other assets or liabilities.
In a risk attitude profiling questionnaire, Mrs T said things like:
she had no strong opinion about whether she found financial matters easy to 
understand;
she felt comfortable investing in the stock market - although she had little experience 
of investing in stocks and shares;
she felt comfortable investing in property  although she had little experience;
shed rather take her chances with high risk/high return investments than increase 
the amount she saved;
when it comes to investing, shed rather be safe than sorry. 
Portal deemed Mrs T to be a moderately adventurous investor.
Portal said it would normally have recommended that Mrs T leave her pension benefits 
where they were as that would be most beneficial to her in retirement. However, Mrs T said 
she wanted to take her benefits immediately (and was aware of the downside of doing so) 
and had ruled out other ways of generating cash. Therefore, Portal recommended: 
Mrs T transfer her existing pension fund to a SIPP as it said this combined the traditional 
elements of a personal pension with a self-investment option, giving you the opportunity to 
invest outside conventional insured funds.
Portal recommended that Mrs T invest in the following funds:
47.5% Raithwaites hyper fund (unregulated collective investment scheme)
12.5% Hya Asia fund (unregulated collective investment scheme)
17.5% Venture Oil International 
12.5% EOS solar energy 
10% Cash deposit 
It noted the charges that Mrs T would have to pay, including an initial charge of 5% of the 
total transfer value. And whilst it accepted this would cost more than her existing 
arrangement, it said the SIPP provider offered an extremely competitive fee structure for 
their product. It also said there were other charges in relation to the underlying funds. 
Mrs T went ahead and invested in the SIPP.
Due to changes in her circumstances, Mrs T needed to withdraw a further £3,559.88 from 
her pension in June 2015. This had the effect of depleting liquid assets to the extent that 
further withdrawals became temporarily unavailable. 
Portal sent Mrs T an investment update in September 2015. In summary it explained that 
some of the investments hadnt performed as initially expected. However, it also referred to 
the strenuous efforts being made to return Mrs Ts capital together with the growth she was 
entitled to, earlier than expected. 
Mrs T complained to Portal that the transfer from her OPS was unsuitable; the investments 
were too high risk and that shed suffered a financial loss. 
Portal didnt agree and didnt uphold the complaint. However, it accepted there were 
unresolved issues concerning interest payments from some of the funds Mrs T was invested 
in, so said it had agreed to pay her an income until that was resolved - without any 
admission of liability on its part. Portal said it would continue to pay this income until the fund issues had been resolved and Mrs T could take an income directly from her pension. And 
she wouldnt be asked to reimburse the income payments made. 
Mrs T complained to our service and one of our investigators looked into the complaint. He 
partially upheld it on the basis that, whilst he had some concerns about the advice given to 
Mrs T, (but didnt say it was unsuitable per se) he thought Mrs T would have gone ahead 
with the transfer anyway given her circumstances at the time. However, the investigator 
concluded that the investments recommended werent suitable for Mrs T, especially as she 
wasnt an experienced investor. He set out how he thought Portal should put matters right. 
Mrs T (via her representative) accepted the assessment. Portal didnt. It didnt provide any 
additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And for many of the same reasons that our investigator gave, Im intending to partially 
uphold it.
Apart from the overarching principles for businesses, which include:
Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 - skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers interests; 
Principle 9 - reasonable care, the Code of Business sourcebook (COBS) sets out other 
obligations. In particular, COBS 9.2.1 R required Portal to take reasonable steps to make 
sure any personal recommendations were suitable for Mrs T. That meant it was required to 
find out about her knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type of investment); 
her financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2 R says that businesses should gather enough information to ensure the 
recommendation met the customers objectives; the customer could bear the risks involved; 
and had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks. 
So, its against that backdrop that Ive considered whether Portal acted fairly and reasonably 
in Mrs Ts particular case.
Was Portals advice to transfer suitable?
Portal had to bear in mind that Mrs T had accrued valuable benefits and guarantees as a 
member of the OPS scheme. Unlike other types of pension, those werent based on 
investment returns. And the regulator made clear that the starting point for any firm when 
advising a client to transfer out of a final salary (also referred to as defined benefits) OPS 
was to assume that it wouldnt be suitable. 
This is set out in COBS19.1.6G, which says:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
The OPS that Mrs T was looking to transfer formed roughly a third of her overall retirement 
provision. So, it wasnt an insignificant sum. And Portal did indicate that ordinarily, it would 
have told Mrs Ts to leave her pension where it was because it felt that would be the most 
beneficial to her in her retirement. But as shed indicated she wanted to access tax-free 
cash straightaway, it said that was the main basis for its recommendation. And whilst I can 
see that Portal did set out a number of risk warnings, including those which highlighted the guaranteed benefits Mrs T would be giving up, ultimately, it recommended that she transfer 
her OPS to a SIPP. In doing so, therefore, Portal had to be satisfied that this was in Mrs Ts 
best interests overall. 
Like our investigator, I too, have some concerns about aspects of the advice process. 
To properly advise Mrs T, Id normally have expected Portal to ensure it understood her 
wider financial circumstances and income needs in retirement. Otherwise, I think it 
becomes more difficult to say with any confidence, whether its advice was suitable; met her 
overall retirement needs and was otherwise in her best interests. Portal said we normally 
only give advice when we have obtained a full picture of your financial and personal 
circumstances, on this occasion you have requested that we limit our advice to your 
retirement planning only. And whilst I accept that Mrs T wasnt looking for advice about 
transferring her other OPS, as that made up about two thirds of her retirement provision, 
(and Mrs T was also still looking to build up funds in that for her retirement), Id have 
expected Portal to take more account of that when looking at the bigger picture. But, other 
than references to the transfer value and critical yield, theres limited information about that 
in the fact find. Nor does Portal appear to have explored in any real detail, Mrs Ts income 
needs in retirement. 
Another important part of considering the viability of an OPS transfer is the level of return 
needed to match (let alone exceed) the benefits from an OPS. And the regulator made 
clear that, in order for a pension transfer to be financially viable, the assets a customers 
attitude to risk allowed them to invest in, shouldnt just mean its a case of achieving the 
critical yield, it should be capable of exceeding it. I can see that Portal told Mrs T that it 
didnt think the critical yield (10.6%) needed to match the benefits she was giving up could 
be achieved. And it noted that Mrs T wanted to go ahead in any event. In other words, it 
said that Mrs T knew and accepted that it was highly unlikely shed be able to receive an 
amount equivalent to what she would have received from her OPS. And whilst thats 
certainly reflected in the evidence, I think Portal probably didnt put enough emphasis on 
just how much worse off Mrs T might be in retirement. I say that because the critical yield it 
mentioned was likely to have been significantly understated once charges and investment 
growth were factored in. 
Having said all of that, Mrs T made it clear that she was looking to clear her existing debts 
and needed tax-free cash to enable her to do that. Pensions are primarily designed to 
provide retirement income, so the adviser needed to consider whether Mrs T could meet 
her objective of clearing debts by using alternative means. And its evident from its fact find 
that Portal discussed other options for clearing the debt with Mrs T, but shed ruled out the 
possibility of securing other credit. This also accords with what Mrs T told our service. 
But as well as taking her tax-free cash to reduce her debts, Mrs T wanted to continue 
investing in her pension. So, it seems unlikely that her existing pension arrangements 
would have allowed her to do that. If there was the option to take retirement benefits at 57, 
I think shed likely have to draw an income, which wasnt something that Mrs T wanted. 
And, as she was also still working and intended to do so for another few years at least, I 
think there would have been tax implications by taking an additional income. 
Given its starting point that it would normally have told Mrs T to leave her pension where it 
was, (as that would most likely have been more beneficial in retirement) Ive thought very 
carefully about whether Portals advice for Mrs T to go ahead with the transfer was the right 
advice. And, on balance, I think it probably was. 
I accept it could have told Mrs T it wasnt willing to facilitate the transfer. But by Mrs Ts 
own admission, given her needs at the time, shed have gone elsewhere to make sure she 
could access her tax-free cash. So, I think theres little doubt that reducing the debt at the time of the advice was more important to Mrs T than a higher income in retirement. And 
when thinking about whether the advice is in the clients best interests overall, I think its as 
much about balancing their circumstances at the time of the advice with their needs in 
retirement. Arguably, reducing her debts would have given Mrs T a better standard of living 
at the time, whilst perhaps helping pave the way towards a more comfortable retirement. 
But Portal was also aware that Mrs T had another OPS (that made up the bigger proportion 
of her pension provision) which was being topped up whilst she continued to work. And, in 
addition to that, I can see it suggested that some of the disposable income she freed up by 
repaying her debts could perhaps be re-routed towards her pension, whilst still giving her 
more money to live on at the time. Taking all of these factors together, I cant fairly say that 
Portals advice to transfer was unsuitable. It helped Mrs T achieve her immediate objective, 
whilst thinking about what she could do to minimise any income shortfalls in retirement. So, 
on balance, I think Portal has done enough to demonstrate its advice to transfer was in Mrs 
Ts best interest overall. 
Was Portals advice in relation to the underlying investments and SIPP suitable?
Given what I said earlier, I think Mrs T knew and understood shed lose the valuable 
benefits within her OPS once she transferred it. And, notwithstanding what I said (about 
Portal probably not placing enough emphasis on the fact that Mrs T would likely be much 
worse off in retirement) Portal still had a duty to make sure any investment advice was 
suited to Mrs Ts attitude to risk. Thats because it needed to make sure it didnt 
unnecessarily expose her to undue or extra risk. For the reasons Ill outline, I dont think 
Portal accurately assessed and categorised Mrs Ts attitude to risk. To a large extent, that 
influenced the investment and other advice to transfer into a SIPP as opposed to a different 
type of personal pension.  And the upshot is that I think it subjected Mrs Ts investments to 
unnecessary risk. Ill explain why. 
Portal said she was a moderately adventurous investor which is someone who typically 
has moderate to high levels of financial knowledge and will usually keep up to date on 
financial issues. They will usually be fairly experienced investors, who have used a range 
of investment products in the past. In general, moderately adventurous investors are willing 
to take on investment risk and understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long-
term return. They are willing to take risk with a substantial proportion of their available 
assets.
In the risk questionnaire that Mrs T completed, she indicated that she had little experience 
investing in stocks and shares or in property. Nor did she have a strong opinion about 
whether she found investment of financial matters easy to understand. So, I think these 
statements were instantly at odds with Portals categorisation. Elsewhere, Mrs T said shed 
rather take her chances with high risk high return investments, but in another section, she 
said shed rather be safe than sorry when it came to investing. These dont strike me as 
the sorts of responses a high-risk investor would typically give. 
In these circumstances and in order to comply with COBS 9.2.2R, Id have expected Portal 
to do more to probe and challenge the apparent contradictions in Mrs Ts answers so that it 
could satisfy itself that she could bear the risks involved in any investments made. It also 
needed to be satisfied that she had the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risks. As Im not persuaded that she did have that knowledge and 
experience, I dont think transferring her OPS into mainly high-risk investments within a 
SIPP would have given Mrs T the flexibility and control that Portal alluded to. Nor does the 
evidence show that Mrs T wanted or needed that flexibility and control. And the reality is 
that, as an inexperienced investor, Mrs T would still have needed to rely on Portal for 
ongoing advice.  Contrary to what Portal said, I think the evidence shows Mrs T was a more cautious investor. 
And the fact that she had limited or no means to make up any further losses (over and above 
any she might reasonably have been expecting from the transfer of the OPS itself) ought to 
have been something that it gave careful thought to - especially when recommending such a 
high-risk investment strategy. And, as Ive indicated, Portals failure to fully explore and 
challenge some of the answers given (so as to agree a more appropriate risk category) led it 
to recommend investments that were wholly unsuitable for Mrs Ts experience as an investor 
or which suited her true attitude to risk. 
I say that because Portal recommended that Mrs T invest around 60% of her pension in 
unregulated collective investment schemes. By their nature, they are very high risk and often 
illiquid investments. There can also be a lack of regulation, longevity, potential insolvency, 
offshore and currency exchange, and other factors which could prevent investors from 
accessing their funds and the funds are mostly dependent on specific market areas. 
So, theyre only suitable to a certain type of investor. But, even in the absence of additional 
questioning on Portals part, I think it would have known that Mrs T didnt fit that bill based on 
what it did know. And, whilst I can see that Portal did give Mrs T various warnings about the 
high-risk nature of these investments, that doesnt suddenly make unsuitable investments 
become suitable. And in any event, when considering unregulated investments, the 
regulators good and poor practice report of 2010 sighted an example of good practice. This 
was the practice of restricting such unregulated investments to between 3% and 5% of a 
portfolio with ongoing monitoring. Portal was aware that it was recommending a much 
greater proportion of Mrs Ts investments be invested in this way. 
In its own evaluation, Portal recognised that these types of investments are suited to those 
comfortable in investing in property. And whilst Mrs T might have indicated she was 
comfortable doing so, she also said she had no experience in it. I think its also worth saying 
that just because a consumer indicates that they have a certain tolerance for risk doesnt 
mean they have the capacity to accept that risk and absorb any losses that might then 
follow. And I think thats true in Mrs Ts case. But I dont think Portal did enough to explore 
this with her. Nor am I persuaded that the assurances it gave about why they were 
considered suitable justified its actions or was enough to satisfy the regulators expectations.
Again, as Ive said, I think Portal exposed Mrs T to a higher level of risk than was appropriate 
for her. More recent statements indicate that Mrs Ts investments arent performing as 
expected. And, as one of the investments couldnt pay the promised interest, Portal stepped 
in to make payments until such time as the position recovered. 
Taking all of these factors into account, it follows that I think Portals investment advice was 
unsuitable in Mrs Ts case. And I think its responsible for losses that may have followed. 
Portal said it recommended Mrs T invest in a SIPP because it gave her the opportunity to 
invest in funds outside of conventional ones. For similar reasons to those Ive already given, 
I dont think Mrs T needed access to the range of investment choices that Portal thought she 
did. Given the size of her pension pot; attitude to risk and investment aims, it seems to me 
that her aims could just as easily have been achieved through a different sort of personal 
pension. 
And whilst Ts fees did seem to be fairly competitive in the scheme of things, I also need to 
keep in mind that there were other charges connected to the underlying funds themselves. 
Overall, Mrs T ended up with a far more expensive and complicated fee structure than shed 
otherwise been used to or needed. So, as she only seems to have invested in the SIPP as a 
result of Portals advice, Ive set out below what it needs to do about the SIPP fees charged. Putting things right
When we believe a consumer would have invested their funds differently, but we cant say 
exactly how, there are broadly three standard approaches that we can apply to imagine the 
consumer's money was invested with the right amount of risk for them. In Mrs Ts particular 
case, I think she was probably able to take a small amount of risk. As such, I think Portal 
should use a benchmark made up of half based on Bank of England average return from 
fixed rate bonds and the other half with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return 
index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index). I 
think thats suited to a consumer like Mrs T who was probably a more low risk, or cautious 
investor.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs T as close as 
possible to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable 
advice. I believe that what Ive set out below is fair compensation and is a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the specific circumstances of this case. 
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mrs T fairly Portal should (whilst taking account of any interim payments its 
already made):
Compare the performance of Mrs T's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, it should pay the equivalent amount into Mrs Ts pension plan, 
to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Its 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If it is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Ts pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs T's actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age, assumed to be 
20%. Allowing for the tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation, so an overall reduction of 15% should reflect this.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs T in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
SIPP with 
Tmixedfor half the 
investment:date of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year 
from final 
decision to 
settlement 
(if not 
settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving 
Mrs Ts  
acceptance)
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Portal is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of the calculation. It may wish to require that Mrs T provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. It will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. It should apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
If Mrs T is unable to close her SIPP once compensation has been paid (which may be 
possible if illiquid investments remain), Portal should pay an amount into the SIPP 
equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent years fees) that will 
be payable on the SIPP. This is because Mrs T would not be in the SIPP but for Portals 
unsuitable advice. So, it would not be fair for her to have to pay fees to keep it open. 
Five years would allow enough time for any issues with illiquid investments to be sorted 
out, and the SIPP to be closed. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
It seems Mrs T wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her 
capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs T's risk profile was more cautious than Portal stated although I 
think she was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment 
objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs T into that 
position. It does not mean that Mrs T would have invested 50% of her money in a 
fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs T could have 
obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
I think Portals handling of things is likely to have been a source of great worry and 
distress to Mrs T. Especially knowing that a fair proportion of her pension pot has 
significantly diminished in value due to Portals poor investment advice. So, I think Portal 
should pay the £500 compensation our investigator recommended in light of this.  
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
Determination and award: I partially uphold the complaint. I consider that fair 
compensation should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Portal Financial 
Services LLP should pay Mrs T the amount produced by that calculation  up to a 
maximum of £160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mrs T the 
balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Portal 
Financial Services LLP. It is unlikely that Mrs T can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Mrs T may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Portal Financial Services LLP does not pay the recommended amount (if applicable), 
then any portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mrs T. This is until any future 
benefit that she may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by 
Portal Financial Services LLP (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation 
as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP may request an undertaking from Mrs T that either she 
repays to it any amount Mrs T may receive from the portfolio thereafter or if possible, 
transfers the portfolio to Portal at that point.
Mrs T should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension plan so she 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And I direct Portal Financial Services LLP to take the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman