DRN-2062800
The complaint
Mr P complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) acted irresponsibly in lending to 
him.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr P applied for a loan of £3,300 which included an administration fee of 
£165 over a term of 36 months at an interest rate of 49.8%. The monthly repayments were 
£154.22. The loan was approved, and the funds were sent to Mr P. He began making 
repayments in March 2018. He made three monthly repayments before he was no longer 
able to afford the repayments and entered into a reduced payment arrangement through a 
debt charity shortly after. Mr P was able to repay the loan in full in 2019 after making 
reduced repayments for a significant period of time.
Mr P says AvantCredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan and specifically that 
AvantCredit didnt carry out sufficient credit checks. He says that, if it had, it would have 
seen that he was over-committed and wouldnt have given him the loan. This has added to 
his financial difficulties and caused him significant upset.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that he could see 
AvantCredit carried out credit checks before approving the loan application but that it hadnt 
taken care to fully consider the information Mr P had provided to it. He identified that several 
of the loans Mr P had taken out shortly before this loan werent evident on his credit file so 
AvantCredit couldnt have known about these. But he said that based on the information it 
did have, the loan was unaffordable.
AvantCredit didnt agree with the investigator. It said Mr P had disposable income of around 
£230 per month based on what he had told it and the credit check it had done  so it felt the 
monthly repayments of £154.22 were affordable. It also said that Mr P had told it the purpose 
of the loan was for debt consolidation. As AvantCredit didnt agree with our investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr P has complained that this lending was irresponsible and unaffordable for him, Ive 
considered whether the checks AvantCredit carried out were proportionate given the 
circumstances of the loan. And if it did carry out proportionate checks, whether the lending 
decision it made based on those checks was a reasonable one and whether the lending 
appeared to be sustainable over the life of the loan. Like the investigator, I have considered 
only the information AvantCredit wouldve known about at the time of the application to 
assess whether it made a reasonable lending decision based on what it knew.
AvantCredit asked Mr P several questions during his application and carried out an 
affordability assessment, which included reviewing his credit file. This credit check flagged 
up some areas of concern, including that his indebtedness has increased significantly in the 
months before Mr P made the loan application  the checks carried out indicate that Mr Ps 
level of borrowing had increased by around £8,000 in the months leading up to the loan. And 
it indicated that Mr P had either had a significant pay increase or may have been 
overestimating his income compared to his earnings 12 months prior to the application.
I have also considered the affordability of the loan to Mr P. His declared income was £1,586 
per month, which having reviewed his bank statements appears to have been accurate. 
AvantCredit hasn't been able to give us all the information about Mr Ps declared outgoings 
but has said that he declared his monthly outgoings as being £1,100 which included 
payments to his mortgage and utilities. There were outgoings of £405 towards an 
undisclosed category but AvantCredit has confirmed that amount was included as part of his 
monthly expenses.
AvantCredit then used his credit file to consider his regular monthly credit commitments  
and there seems to be no dispute that these were £256 per month. This left Mr P with a 
monthly disposable income of £230 per month. The monthly loan repayments were £154.22, 
leaving him with around £75 per month. There also doesnt appear to have been any 
consideration given to Mr Ps monthly credit card repayments which were usually around 
£100 per month.
So taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied that leaving Mr P with such a small amount 
of disposable income each month would have been sustainable for the life of the loan, which 
was 36 months. I would have expected AvantCredit to take into account that Mr P was likely 
to have unexpected expenses and leave a reasonable amount to ensure he was able to 
afford these  and I dont consider £75 to be sufficient for this over the term of the loan. So it 
follows that I dont think AvantCredit acted responsibly in providing this loan to Mr P.
AvantCredit has said that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation and has 
provided some calculations about how these funds might have been used. But AvantCredit 
hasnt evidenced that these calculations are based on what Mr P told them and instead 
seem to be assumptions about one way he might have used the funds. Given that Mr Ps 
remaining disposable income after the loan repayment would have been so small, I would 
have expected AvantCredit to ask Mr P about which debts he intended to repay so it could 
establish whether the repayments for this loan would have been affordable and sustainable. 
As it hasnt evidence that it did this, the purpose of the loan doesnt change my opinion that 
AvantCredit acted irresponsibly in providing Mr P with the loan.
Mr P has also explained that trying to repay the debt caused him a great deal of distress. We 
dont punish businesses but where I believe a consumer has been caused distress or 
inconvenience, I can ask it to compensate for that  and I think Mr P has been caused some 
distress and inconvenience as a result of AvantCredit approving this loan. However I also 
think that in refunding interest and charges on the loan, AvantCredit has gone some way 
towards putting the situation right. So taking everything into account, I think AvantCredit 
should pay Mr P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Putting things right
AvantCredit shouldnt have lent to Mr P so it should put things right by doing the following:
Mr P has now repaid the loan in full so AvantCredit should refund Mr P any interest, 
charges and fees he paid towards this loan, so he has only repaid the amount he 
initially borrowed.AvantCredit should also pay simple interest on the refunded amount, calculated at 
8% a year from the date of the repayments to the date of the refund.*
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ps credit file, related to this loan.
Pay Mr P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
*HM Revenue & Customs require AvantCredit to take off tax from the 8% interest. So they 
must also give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman