DRN-3203795
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined his travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr M has a travel insurance policy alongside his bank current account and for which he pays 
a monthly fee. The policy is underwritten by UKI. 
Mr M booked hotel accommodation on 30 November 2019 for an upcoming honeymoon trip. 
The intended travel dates were from 9 April 2020 to 17 April 2020. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr Ms flights were cancelled as travel restrictions had been 
implemented and on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO)  formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  advised 
against all but essential international travel. 
Mr M received a refund for the flights. He contacted the hotel to see if he could get a refund 
for the booking hed made. The hotel provider said the booking was non-refundable, but it 
provided a credit voucher for a future booking and which was valid for the same amount and 
until April 2022. Mr M didnt accept the voucher and submitted a claim for the cost of the 
hotel booking, in the first instance, to his credit card provider. It refused the claim because 
the hotel booking was booked on a non-refundable basis. 
Mr M then made a claim on his travel insurance policy to UKI. It assessed the claim but 
declined it on the basis that Mr M hadnt suffered a financial loss and that the cost was 
shown to be recoverable elsewhere. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr M brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt uphold it. He didnt think UKI had declined the claim unfairly as the 
offer of the credit voucher was reasonable and the cost was recoverable. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
Mr M says: 
The hotel confirmed on 5 November 2021 that the voucher is still valid until 15 April 
2022;
There are other concerns such as travelling without being vaccinated and other 
potential costs as a result of the changes such as flights, living costs/food at the 
destination and have increased considerably;
If he catches Covid-19 whilst away, it will cause problems returning to the UK when 
they have three young children;
The hotel booking was originally made on a non-refundable basis and no 
voucher/credit should be due. If this had remained, the insurance would have 
covered this matter. Offering a voucher for accommodation when all the other 
elements have also changed means he is being forced into accepting something that 
is not feasible for him to use; and
The voucher expires in April 2022. Hes not been able to consider use of the voucher 
until recently due to travel advice restrictions which were still in place. As such the 
voucher had nil value when UKI made its decision because there was no guarantee it 
could ever be used and thats unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking into 
account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant regulators rules 
say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims 
unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the policy terms and conditions as they form the basis of Mr Ms 
travel insurance contract with UKI. 
Page 19 of the policy document sets out what is covered in the event a trip has to be 
cancelled. 
Part 1  Covers For Your Trip
Cancelling Your Trip (up to the point of departure)
.
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if 
you have to cancel your trip, including:
 Deposits.
 Commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
 Car hire.
 Excursions and activities.
 Kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter costs.
 Car parking charges.
.
And one of the reasons for cancellation listed is:
8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against 
All travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you 
opened your . account or booked your trip whichever is later.
In the same section, theres a further list where cover wont be provided. This says:
12. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):
 1 Recoverable costs.Page 18 includes Specific Exclusions to the policy, which says:
Specific Exclusions
The exclusions listed below are shown in a shortened form when they appear in this policy. 
Please refer to the list below for detailed explanations.
1. Recoverable costs
Any costs that you can recover from elsewhere.
So, based on the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, whilst the event (FCDO advising 
against all but essential travel to their intended destination) is covered, theres a specific 
exclusion which says that any costs that are recoverable elsewhere are not covered on the 
policy. 
Has Mr Ms claim been declined fairly?
Mr M has confirmed that a credit voucher was offered to him by the hotel provider when the 
booking had to be cancelled. The voucher was valid for 24 months and has an expiry date of 
April 2022. The voucher was also valid for the same value as the original booking that was 
made by Mr M in 2019. 
Generally, unless the terms of the offer are unreasonably restrictive and/or the consumer 
has exceptional circumstances, Id consider the option to book at a future date to mean the 
policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
In Mr Ms case, I dont think the terms of the voucher offered by the hotel provider are so 
restrictive or unreasonable. Mr M has until April 2022 to make a further booking to the same 
value as hed originally paid. While Mr M says that there were travel restrictions preventing 
him from making a booking. I agree but those restrictions havent been in place throughout 
and from the time hed been offered the credit voucher.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments that he would incur additional costs if he did make a 
further booking and this would leave him out of pocket. I understand but I can see he 
received a refund for the flights and, in regard to the accommodation, UKIs responsibility is 
to put Mr M back in the position as if he hadnt incurred the loss. The credit voucher is a 
reasonable alternative bearing in mind the original booking was non-refundable and the 
terms of the voucher arent so restrictive. I appreciate that Mr M thinks had the hotel not 
provided a credit voucher, he would have been covered under the policy. But thats not 
actually what happened and is a hypothetical scenario. I have to consider whats actually 
happened in the circumstances on this complaint and Im not persuaded UKI has declined 
the claim unfairly. 
Ive also taken into account Mr Ms other comments regarding not being vaccinated and the 
responsibility him and his partner have for their three young children. Whilst I understand the 
situation has been very challenging and stressful for him and I have every empathy for him, 
these circumstances arent necessarily unusual which would mean the decision to decline 
can be overturned. 
Overall, Ive considered the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint carefully. Taking everything 
into account, Im not persuaded the claim has been declined unfairly by UKI. The cost of the 
hotel booking has been shown to be recoverable and I think the terms of the voucher are 
reasonable. It follows that I dont require UKI to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman