DRN-3460100
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how long Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) took to deal 
with a claim he made under his marine insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My provisional findings
I wrote to both parties on 31 March 2022 to set out my provisional decision. In it I said I 
thought the complaint should be upheld and RSA should pay Mr D a total of £600 
compensation. I did so for the following reasons:
The theft of the boat and subsequent damage happened during the Covid-19 
pandemic. However, while there were international travel restrictions which initially 
made an inspection of the boat and other required investigations difficult, I think RSA 
could have done more to progress the claim in a timely manner.
Contact details were provided for the gentleman who assisted in the recovery of the 
boat and the marina where the boat was stored. However, these werent used, 
instead it was deemed that the investigations required could only be undertaken in 
person.
Only one surveyor was relied upon to inspect the boat and conduct the required local 
interviews. This led to delays as the surveyor couldnt travel internationally for some 
time, then allegedly couldnt access the marina and was also called away on an 
emergency. While it is for RSA to decide how it conducts its investigations, I think it 
would have been reasonable, given the mounting delays, for RSA to have 
considered other ways of obtaining the information it needed to satisfy its concerns 
and validate the claim. 
Overall, I think there was an avoidable delay of around six months in progressing the 
claim. Had this delay not happened, I think it is more likely than not the claim could 
have been concluded sooner, and therefore Mr D wouldve been in a position to 
undertake repairs to the boat to make it usable again. Im also mindful that Mr D had 
to continually chase for progress updates on the claim.
Mr D has asked that his mooring and marina fees be reimbursed as he had to pay 
these while the boat was on land, unrepaired. However, I wont be asking RSA to 
pay these sums as these are fees that Mr D would have always incurred having the 
boat at that marina.
However, I do think Mr D has been delayed in being able to make use of the boat 
again as the repairs remained outstanding. He has explained that he usually uses 
the boat during the summer months and therefore I think, due to the claim delays, he 
lost the opportunity and enjoyment of doing so.
Having considered everything, I believe the claim delays would have caused Mr D a 
reasonable amount of trouble and upset. I think a payment of £600 compensation 
would adequately reflect this.
Responses to my provisional findings
RSA responded and said it accepted my findings and the intended award. 
Mr D responded and, in brief, said he didnt think the compensation was enough for the 
following reasons:
A further complaint was raised with RSA and Mr D wonders if this has been taken into 
account in my decision.
The delay caused by RSA was longer than six months. 
It should have only taken around four weeks to arrange the survey of the boat.
Ive not made comment about the inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the initial 
inspection report which he believes led to the delays that followed. Mr D thinks it 
should only have taken a matter of weeks between the inspection taking place and the 
claim being accepted. 
Had he known RSA were going to have taken so long he would have moved the boat 
back to the U.K. and stored it for free. The compensation offered doesnt cover those 
lost fees for the time when he couldnt use the boat. 
To hire a similar boat would have cost £750 a day. 
He has spent a countless number of hours on emails and phone calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr D, and by RSA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case. 
To confirm, my decision only relates to issues that happened up to the date of RSAs 
response to Mr Ds complaint on 21 August 2021. Anything that happened after this date 
which Mr D is unhappy would need to be considered separately.  
Ive acknowledged in my provisional decision that RSA could have done more to move the 
complaint forward in a timelier manner. However, while this may be the case, it is still entitled 
to undertake any investigations it sees fit. In light of the circumstances surrounding the claim, I do still think it would have taken RSA some time to complete its investigation and 
satisfy itself of the validity of the claim. So, I remain satisfied, having reviewed the timeline of 
events, there was around six months of avoidable delays.
I havent commented on the alleged inconsistencies in the initial inspection report as I dont 
believe it impacts my decision in this instance. 
In my provisional decision, Ive accepted Mr D would have suffered trouble and upset by the 
way in which the claim was handled by RSA. The awards of this service are modest in 
nature and arent designed to be punitive or at such levels a court may award for damages 
etc. 
I cant make awards for losses that werent incurred, so while it may be the case Mr D could 
have hired another boat he didnt do so. And for the same reasons as my provisional 
decision, I wont be making an award for the marina fees - Mr D didnt move the boat back to 
the U.K. so he would have needed to pay the fees in any event.
Overall, having considered everything, Im not minded to change the outcome I reached in 
my provisional decision. So, it is my decision that this complaint should be upheld and RSA 
should pay Mr D compensation of £600 to reflect the trouble and upset he was caused by its 
handling of his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited. I direct it to pay Mr D £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman