DRN-2769302
The complaint
Mr G complains that he didnt receive the service he should have from National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) when he wanted access to his money.
What happened
Mr G says that he tried to register online to access his premium bonds but was 
unsuccessful. He then sent of a paper application on 17 September 2020 but wasnt 
provided with the password for his account until 19 November. He says he had to contact 
NS&I several times and that not being able to access his money caused him distress and 
restricted his job opportunities. He acknowledged the gesture of goodwill that had been 
provided but didnt think this was sufficient.
NS&I issued a final response letter in January 2021. It said that to register online the 
customer must be able to answer three questions based on data held by a third party 
agency. It noted that given Mr Gs age there may not have been the information available to 
generate the questions for this process. It said it received Mr Gs application for online and 
phone services on 17 September 2020 and at that time there were delays due to the 
pandemic. It says a temporary password and Mr Gs NS&I number were sent to him on 19 
November but by this time Mr Gs application to withdraw his funds had been processed. 
NS&I didnt accept that the time taken to issue the password was excessive and so didnt 
uphold his complaint but as a goodwill gesture offered to pay Mr G £50.
Our investigator acknowledged the delays Mr G had experienced and the impact these had 
on him. He noted that NS&I had made and offer of £50 as a goodwill gesture but 
recommended that £100 be paid. This was accepted by NS&I.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view and the offer of £100. He said he was left without 
access to his money for two months at a time when he was furloughed. He says he didnt 
have the money to search for other work and pay transport costs for this. He found a form 
online to close his account which he did as he needed the funds, but he didnt want to do this 
instead he had just wanted to access his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G had an account with NS&I which he was able to take control of on reaching the age of 
16. Mr G says neither he nor his mother were notified that he would need to manage his 
account from that point. NS&I has provided a copy of its contact log which shows notification 
was sent in July 2019. I havent seen the content of this, but I find it reasonable to accept 
that the notification was sent. 
The main part of Mr Gs complaint is about him not being able to access his funds when he 
needed them. I can appreciate that this would have been distressing for Mr G as he has 
explained he was furloughed at the time and as he had very limited funds he needed the 
money from his NS&I account to pay for essential items such as travel for job opportunities. 
Mr Gs initial attempt at registering for online access wasnt successful. NS&I has explained 
its process and why this may not have worked for Mr G. While I accept this was frustrating 
for him, as this was the usual process that NS&I would go through (and there were other 
ways of registering) I cannot say that Mr G was treated unfairly. 
Mr G contacted NS&I to ask about which form he needed to complete. He says he didnt 
receive a response but was then provided with the information he needed through the chat 
service. I can see why Mr G felt he wasnt receiving the service he should have been, but it 
appears that he was then able to complete the required form.
There was then a delay between NS&I receiving Mr Gs completed form on 17 September 
and the temporary password being sent on 19 November. While I appreciate that the 
pandemic was having an impact on many businesses and delays were occurring, I can see 
that in this case the delay was particularly inconvenient for Mr G. 
NS&I says it tried to manage Mr Gs expectations by explaining the authentication team was 
behind and providing a link to a postal cash-in form. It says this was received on 29 October 
and the payment processed on 2 November. I understand that it wasnt Mr Gs initial 
intention to close his account and I accept that he may have felt he had no choice due to the 
delay in his password being issued, however it was his decision to withdraw the money at 
that time and this meant he received his money on 2 November. I understand this was still a 
delay of around a month and a half from when his form had been received. 
I understand how upsetting this process was for Mr G and I agree he wasnt provided with 
the service he should have, but I think the £100 recommended by our investigator and 
accepted by NS&I is reasonable in this case. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr G 
and I note his comment about being restricted on applying for jobs at the time, but I have 
nothing to show that the NS&I delay alone caused him any financial loss. Mr G received his 
funds on 2 November and while I appreciate the weeks leading up to this were difficult for 
him this was due to a number of factors. Therefore, while I am sorry to hear of the 
experience Mr G had, I find that based on the information I have seen, £100 is reasonable to 
compensate Mr G for the distress caused by the NS&I delay. 
Putting things right
As agreed, NS&I should pay Mr G a total of £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in issuing his password for use of online and phone 
services. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments should pay Mr G a total of £100 
compensation in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman