DRN-2481775
The complaint
Miss M complains esure Insurance Limited (esure) settled a third-party claim against her 
motor insurance policy unfairly.
What happened
Miss M contacted esure in August 2020 to explain that, in the process of opening the 
door of her car which had been parked at a garage, shed made contact with a third 
partys car. She said shed exchanged details with the third party but couldnt see any 
damage.
esure informed her it had recorded the incident as notification-only and would contact 
her if the third party got in touch.
A few days later, a claim was submitted by the third party for damage caused by the 
impact. esure settled the claim and notified Miss M accordingly sometime later.
Miss M complained to esure as she was unhappy it didnt inform her when it received 
the claim. She was also unhappy it proceeded to settle the claim without giving her 
an opportunity to comment on it.
esure said it took reasonable steps in validating the third-party claim and was 
satisfied the damage corresponded with the information Miss M had given about the 
contact. So, it accepted responsibility. esure also said while it wouldnt have changed 
the outcome, it should have called Miss M to confirm it had accepted and settled the 
third-party claim. It offered her £50 as an apology.
Miss M didnt agree and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator concluded esure hadnt done anything wrong in accepting and 
settling the claim. He thought it had taken reasonable steps in reaching this decision. 
The investigator also thought the compensation esure had offered fairly recognised 
the trouble and upset Miss M was caused by not being kept informed.
Miss M doesnt agree. She disputes the available photos show any damage to the 
third partys car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
It isnt my role to determine who was actually liable for the accident at the heart of 
this dispute; that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding here is 
whether esure acted fairly and reasonably in its decision to settle the third-party 
claim.
The starting point is the agreement between Miss M and esure  the policy terms and 
conditions. These include a provision which entitles esure to take over and deal with 
a claim, including agreeing settlement of it. This provision is common in motor 
policies. Insurers are entitled to consider whether its reasonable to challenge a claim 
and the likely chances of pursuing or defending it in court. I dont think its unfair 
because insurers have greater experience of how the courts are likely to determine 
liability for accidents.
Insurers are, however, expected to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the 
available evidence before making a decision. 
esure took into account what Miss M had said about the incident, the information 
supplied by the third party, as well as the opinion of a qualified engineer. It 
reasonably checked the damage was in keeping with the incident circumstances 
before deciding to settle the claim. I dont consider esures decision to be unfair or 
unreasonable given the circumstances. 
Miss Ms questioned whether damage was caused. I agree with our investigator the 
damage isnt immediately obvious from looking at the available photos. But on 
zooming in and closely examining Miss Ms photos in conjunction with those taken by 
the engineer, I can see a dent as well as a scratch and chipped paint where contact 
was made. The damage is visible in one of the photos Miss M has provided. I havent 
seen anything to suggest the claim was exaggerated. So, I consider esure acted 
fairly and reasonably in keeping with the policy terms and conditions.
Miss Ms policy states her no claim discount entitlement will be affected if esure is 
unable to fully recover the claim costs and no claim discount isnt protected. As 
Miss M didnt opt to protect her no claim discount, I dont think its unfair of esure to 
reduce her no claim discount entitlement in accordance with the policy terms.
esure admits it should have updated Miss M on its intention to deal with the third-
party claim. I can understand why Miss M feels disappointed it didnt. But Im not 
persuaded esures liability decision would have been any different if it had updated 
her sooner. Given this, Im satisfied the offer of £50 esure made for its service failings 
is fair. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
For these reasons, although I understand Miss Ms frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint as esure Insurance 
Limited has already fairly resolved it. I require it to pay Miss M £50 if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman