DRN-4481852
The complaint
X complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) poor service, following a claim 
under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
X held a landlord policy with BG, his tenants contacted BG as there was an issue with the 
boiler. It sent an engineer who diagnosed that the heat exchanger was blocked with sludge. 
The engineer said that he left a report with Xs tenants and requested that a quotation for a 
replacement heat exchanger, be given to X. X said that he didnt receive this quote. 
X said that the cover that he held with BG, included parts and labour, so he shouldnt be 
charged for the heat exchanger. BG explained to him that sludge was present. It also said 
that previously it had told him that, any further repairs where it was identified that sludge was 
present, wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
X said that due to BGs delay in dealing with his claim, he was essentially forced to obtain a 
new boiler from a third-party. And the boiler that was installed, cost him £1,700. X raised a 
complaint to BG, given what he believed was the incorrect information hed been told. 
Namely that the heat exchanger shouldve been supplied and fitted without any additional 
charge, as it was a part and parts were covered under the policy. X believed that BG ought 
to reimburse his costs for the new boiler.
BG advised that it wouldnt be reimbursing the cost of the new boiler. So, he asked BG to 
cancel his policy. BG advised that a cancellation charge would be payable, which X refused 
to pay and added this to his complaint. 
In its final response, BG accepted that there had been some poor service issues and offered 
X compensation of £60 for the trouble and upset caused. It said that it wouldnt reimburse 
the costs of the boiler, given that there had been sludge identified in the system. And that it 
had previously informed X about this. It relied on the policy terms and conditions, that stated 
that where BG had previously advised of an upgrade or repair. And a policyholder didnt 
follow the advice, any future repairs related to sludge, wouldnt be covered. 
X remained unhappy and as he had been given his referral rights, he referred a complaint to 
our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. Her view was that according to the policy terms the claim wouldnt be accepted. But 
as BG had previously carried out repairs where a part had been affected by sludge, and it 
hadnt raised any concerns or refused claims. She felt that it ought to have accepted this 
claim. She said that it had dealt with the cancellation and refund of Xs premiums fairly. But 
she recommended that BG ought to pay X the cost of repairing the heat exchanger, which 
was fair. Rather than the boiler as there was no information as to what caused it to break 
down. Further, she recommended that BG ought to increase the amount of compensation to 
a total of £160 (£60 already offered and paid), for the poor service issues he experienced. 
X accepted the view, BG did not. It said that for several years, it had advised X to carry out 
remedial work to the boiler and told him about the presence of sludge. It said that it hadnt 
carried out any repairs that related to sludge, apart from one in December 2017, and it 
thought the engineer at the time may have done this as a goodwill gesture, as it wasnt 
covered under the policy. It said that it had acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of 
the policy. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 November 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 4 December 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to X, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Ive considered the comments and evidence from both parties. I have also reviewed the 
policy terms and conditions and Ive been provided with copies of the work history, that 
details the amount of work including annual services, carried out on Xs boiler. I think the 
main issue of this complaint is whether BG fairly declined to repair the heat exchanger. And 
whether it was reasonable for it not to reimburse Xs costs for the replacement boiler.   
Xs boiler was covered with BG from 2015. However, BG has provided evidence to show that 
it was likely that the boiler was much older than that. From the work record, that is compiled 
by each engineer who attends and gives details of what happened during the visit. It appears 
that the first call out in March 2015, BG advised that the heat exchanger was blocked, it was 
removed and cleaned and said that sludge would not be covered. BG advised that the boiler 
would need to be replaced and that a quote could be provided, but X declined this. 
Since 2015 (until X cancelled the policy), from the work history, BG advised X to either 
upgrade or replace parts on the boiler and also to replace the boiler 29 times. I can see that 
he was repeatedly told that sludge would not be covered under the policy. 
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I think the terms are clear in that if a 
policyholder, decides not to take action following the advice given (that is that future sludge 
related faults would not be covered) then they will be responsible for any future risks. The 
policy states at pages 10, 30 and 31 the following: 
Whats not covered: Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris, if weve told you 
before that you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Power flush, or a 
similar process, but you havent done so.
British Gas Power flush: Over time, gas central heating systems build up sludge that can 
block or narrow your pipes, radiators and boiler parts. British Gas Power flush is our way of 
removing that sludge from your system. Well tell you if your system needs a power flush to 
work properly. Youll need to pay for it separately  it isnt included in your cover. 
If you buy a British Gas Power flush, any future ones you may need to keep your system 
working properly are included, for as long as you have continuous cover for your boiler with us. If someone else carries out a power flush for you, youll need to show us the receipt 
before we carry out any more repairs or replacement work for damage caused by sludge. 
Making any improvements: Where weve told you that an improvement is necessary, we may 
not continue to make repairs on that part of your boiler, appliance or system unless the work 
has been carried out.
I think this shows that X was aware that he had been previously advised about the 
accumulation of sludge. Further, he explained that he had instructed a third-party engineer to 
remove the sludge: 
I however wish to categorically point out that when they advised of sludge in the boiler in 
earlier years, I employed the services of an independent contractor to do the work as the 
independent engineer was a lot cheaper that the quotation British Gas. I will not have left the 
identified fault unrectified.
X was asked to provide an invoice or some other proof of the work he said was carried out. 
But this wasnt provided. Additionally, I cant see that X complied with the policy terms which 
stated that if work of this nature was carried out by an independent engineer, then he would 
need to show BG a receipt of the work, before it carried out any more repairs or replacement 
work, for the damage caused by sludge. 
I accept that in December 2017, BG replaced the heat exchanger. I asked it why this was 
done especially as it had previously advised X that this wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
It explained that it was likely due to the engineer carrying out a goodwill gesture, given the 
time of the year and not wanting to leave the tenants without heating and hot water. And it 
seems that X benefitted from a repair that he wasnt entitled to, under the policy. 
Apart from this repair, I cant see that BG carried out any other sludge related repairs. And 
Im satisfied that BG over several years advised X that the boiler and system were in a poor 
condition (due to the presence of sludge) and ultimately would need to be replaced. 
Consequently, Im currently satisfied that BG fairly declined the claim, given the policy terms 
and conditions. So, I dont think it is reasonable for BG to reimburse Xs costs for the 
replacement boiler. And I currently, find that it fairly declined to carry out the repair of the 
heat exchanger.  
Ive next considered the level of compensation, for the poor service issues. BG accepted and 
apologised for its error. It offered and paid £60 for the trouble and upset caused. I 
understand that X would like a higher amount of compensation awarded. 
Our service has strict guidelines on awards of compensation. And whilst I accept there were 
incidents of poor service, having reviewed our guidelines, Im satisfied that the error caused 
X some level of frustration. Consequently, Im satisfied that the amount of compensation 
paid by BG is in line with our services guidance on compensation awards. So, I wont be 
asking it to increase this further. 
Finally, X said that BG ought not to have charged him a cancellation fee, when he had to 
cancel the policy, due to BGs poor handling of the claim. However, the policy terms and 
conditions state:
Well cancel your policy from the date you notify us, and well refund you for the rest of the 
time you have already paid for. If weve carried out any work for you, you may have to pay 
cancellation charges  see cancellation charges table.So, I think it was fair for BG to have charged a cancellation fee, given that X had an annual 
service carried out during the policy term.
BG has confirmed that it has refunded the rest of the premiums back to X from the date of 
his cancellation request. Which Im satisfied is in line with the policy terms, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything further here. 
I acknowledge Xs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he referred it 
to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I currently havent seen 
enough evidence to show that BG acted unfairly. If X has further evidence that is contrary to 
this, I will of course consider it. But for now, I intend not to ask BG to do anything further 
here.
Responses to my provisional decision 
BG accepted by provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
X said that he engaged the services of a third-party engineer to carry out a power flush but 
was unable to locate the invoice. Ultimately, he too accepted by provisional decision. 
As both parties have accepted by provisional decision, then my final decision will be the 
same as my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I wont uphold Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman