DRN-2360614
The complaint
Mr K and Miss R are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, did not follow 
their instructions regarding an application for a new rate. And they feel that the offer made by 
first direct to address this mistake is not fair.
What happened
Mr K and Miss R have a mortgage with first direct that they took out in 2017. The mortgage 
had an interest rate deal that was due to end in November 2019.
In anticipation of the existing deal expiring Mr K and Miss R applied for a new interest rate 
deal with first direct in September 2019. They applied for a five-year fixed interest rate of 
1.94% per annum. This was to take effect when their existing deal expired in November 
2019. They paid a fee of £490 to secure this rate.
When their existing interest rate deal ended, first direct failed to apply the new deal that Mr K 
and Miss R had applied for and agreed. As a result, their mortgage went onto the higher 
standard variable rate (SVR). Mr K and Miss R noticed this in early 2020 and alerted first 
direct, which acknowledged it had made an error. 
To put things right, in February 2020, first direct offered to put the previously agreed interest 
rate deal (1.94% pa fixed for five years) in place, backdated to when it shouldve been 
applied and refund any interest overpayments made by Mr K and Miss R. Alternatively, as 
lower five year fixed interest rates had become available to Mr K and Miss R since they 
initially applied, first direct said they could now apply for one of those new rates instead. But 
it explained that this wouldnt be back dated and they wouldnt receive a refund of the higher 
interest paid in the meantime, or the original £490 fee. In addition to whichever option Mr K 
and Miss R chose first direct said it would also pay them £50 for the upset caused.
Mr K and Miss R asked our service to look into matters. They explained that they were in 
principle agreeable with the second option, and they understood the rates to be either 1.84% 
per annum with no fee or 1.59% per annum with a further £490 fee. But they didnt think it 
was fair that the £490 fee paid in September 2019 would not be refunded.
The complaint was passed to one of our investigators to consider. In June 2020 while our 
investigation was continuing, first direct told Mr K and Miss R that if they applied for a new 
rate at that time, as they were still paying the SVR, the £490 fee initially paid would now be 
refunded. But the new rate again wouldnt be back dated.
Mr K and Miss R remained unhappy as theyd been paying interest at the higher rate since 
the error was first highlighted and responded to in February 2020, with this revised offer to 
refund the disputed fee not being made until June 2020. But the new offer didnt address this 
additional interest paid, so they still didnt think the offer was fair.
Our investigator agreed that he thought first direct needed to do more. He said the offer to 
put the rate agreed in September 2019 in place as it shouldve been and refund the overpaid 
interest did appear to put Mr K and Miss R largely in the position they wouldve been in had 
an error not occurred. So, he thought this was fair. 
But he noted first direct had proposed an alternative option. And he didnt think what it had 
suggested was entirely fair, so had prompted the further deliberations and disagreements. 
He said he felt this second offer, to allow Mr K and Miss R to apply for a new rate in 
February 2020 shouldve included a refund of the initial £490 fee  which first direct had later 
proposed in June 2020. And he said if it had, he thought Mr K and Miss R wouldve accepted 
the offer in February 2020. So, he felt first direct should agree to Mr K and Miss R choosing 
a new interest rate, from those available in February 2020, this rate be applied to the 
mortgage and back dated to 12 February 2020 when first direct first responded to the 
complaint, and refund the £490 fee initially paid in September 2019. He also felt the 
compensation for the distress caused to Mr K and Miss R should be increased to £200.
In August 2020, first direct said it would largely agree to the investigators opinion, in order to 
resolve the complaint. But it said Mr K and Miss R would only be able to choose interest rate 
deals available at that point  in August 2020. And the rates available had increased to 
either 1.94% per annum without a fee or 1.69% with a fee.
Mr K and Miss R did not think this was fair. The investigator also didnt think this was fair and 
reiterated their original opinion. In response, first direct then said it would agree to Mr K and 
Miss R being switched onto a rate available in February 2020 and refund the original fee 
from September 2019, and to pay £200 for the upset caused. But it said that the rate 
available to Mr K and Miss R in February 2020 was actually 1.84% pa fixed for five years, 
with a £490 fee.
Mr K and Miss R remained unhappy with this. And as an agreement could not be reached 
between the parties on a fair way to resolve matters, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that first direct has made an error here. Mr K and Miss R paid a fee of £490 
in September 2019 to secure a new interest rate on their mortgage. This was to begin in 
November 2019 and be a fixed interest rate of 1.94% for five years. first direct failed to put 
this rate in place as agreed, meaning the mortgage moved onto the banks SVR  where it 
has remained since, due to the dispute over how to put this error right.
As first direct has made an error, I think it is only fair that it takes action to put this right. The 
dispute now is what the fair way to do this is.
When considering complaints, if we think an error has been made by the business, the 
approach we generally take is that any resolution should look to put the consumer back in as 
close a position as possible to that they wouldve been in, if the error hadnt happened.
If first direct hadnt made a mistake here, Mr K and Miss Rs mortgage wouldve switched to 
an interest rate of 1.94% pa in November 2019. And wouldve been fixed at that rate for five 
years, from that point. They also wouldnt have received the £490 fee back.
I note that one of the two options to resolve the complaint suggested by first direct wouldve 
put Mr K and Miss R back in that position. So, I think that proposal, which I understand is still 
available to Mr K and Miss R, is fair and reasonable.The issue is that better interest rates had become available by the time that the error had 
been noticed. And Mr K and Miss R would prefer to have benefitted from one of those rates 
 by cancelling the agreement from September 2019, which first direct had failed to 
implement.
If the error had not occurred, this wouldnt have been an option available to Mr K and Miss R 
in the same way  because to take up one of these newly available lower rates theyd have 
had to pay a substantial early repayment charge to exit the interest rate deal that shouldve 
started in November 2019. So, there is an argument that allowing to them to take up one of 
these rates would put them in a position that they should never have been in. But Im 
conscious that first direct offered this option to them in February 2020, in resolution of their 
complaint  on the proviso that they accepted theyd have had to pay the SVR from 
November 2019 until this improved rate was put in place. And that proviso meant that they 
arguably werent in a better position. 
Mr K and Miss R have indicated, since the start of their complaint, that this was their 
preferred resolution. The sticking points were over what rate they should be allowed to apply 
for, when it should be applied from and whether the fee of £490 paid in September 2019 
needed to be refunded. The position taken by first direct in relation to these points has 
changed over the course of this complaint  as Ive set out above. And again, as the 
alternative offered by first direct was a fair way to resolve matters, it is arguable that it didnt 
have to do more. But as it proposed an alternative, I think its reasonable for this to be 
available to Mr K and Miss R. 
The fee paid in September 2019 was to secure an interest rate deal. But first direct, 
incorrectly, never applied that rate to Mr K and Miss Rs mortgage account, so they havent 
received the service that they paid for. So, if they are not taking up the rate agreed in 
September 2019, as first direct agreed in February 2020 they could, I think itd be fair that 
this fee be refunded. And I note first direct has agreed to this since our investigators opinion.
Looking at when the rates should be effective from, I agree with the investigator that itd be 
fair for these to be back dated to February 2020  when the offer was first made. And again, 
I note first direct has agreed to this.
The remaining issue in dispute is the interest rate(s) that Mr K and Miss R should be able to 
choose from. As our investigator suggested, I think itd be fair for them to be able to obtain 
the interest rates that were available to them in February 2020  at the time they were first 
offered the choice to take an alternative rate and effectively cancel the agreement from 
September 2019.And once more first direct has indicated that it is willing to agree to this.
The point of contention is what rates were available in February 2020. first direct has said 
that the rate available at that time was 1.84% fixed for five years with a product fee of £490. 
But having reviewed independent information on the rates it was offering to customers at the 
time, I dont think this information is correct. Market information shows, as Mr K and Miss R 
have said, that first direct was offering two five-year fixed interest rate options, for mortgages 
with the same loan to value ratio as Mr K and Miss R, in February 2020. The first was a rate 
of 1.84% with no product fee. The second option was a rate of 1.59% with a £490 product 
fee. So, I think it would be fair that these are the rates that Mr K and Miss R are able to 
select from  being the options that I think were available to them when this offer was first 
made in February 2020.
So, to summarise, in order to address the error made by first direct, I think the offer it made 
to put the rate agreed in September 2019 in place, from when this shouldve happened, was 
fair. But first direct also offered an alternative. And this offer of an alternative resulted in matters not being resolved  due to differing opinions over the fairness of that alternative. I 
dont think the alternative proposal, when it was initially made, was entirely fair but I note first 
direct has now largely agreed to the suggested changes to this offer  with the exception of 
the interest rate options. I dont think first direct is correct in its position on the interest rate, 
as explained above. I think the reasonable way to resolve this complaint is for Mr K and 
Miss R to have the option of returning to the agreement from September 2019 or taking up 
the alternative offered in February 2020  on terms that I think are fair, detailed above.
I also think any adverse information recorded on Mr K and Miss Rs credit files stemming 
from this issue  through any payments made having potentially been below those due on 
the more expensive SVR - should be removed. As without the initial error, this would not 
have occurred.
Turning to the upset caused by this, I agree that an award for this is appropriate. I know Mr K 
and Miss R feel strongly about this but Im also conscious that, while they may not have 
agreed with what it has said, first direct has acknowledged its error from the outset and 
looked to put matters right. So, having considered everything, I think the £200 suggested by 
our investigator is a fair way to resolve this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, should;
Pay Mr K and Miss R £200 for the upset caused by its error.
Allow Mr K and Miss R to either;
Have the interest rate agreed in September 2019 applied to their mortgage 
account, back dated to apply from November 2019, with any overpayments 
made by them refunded.
Have the product fee of £490 paid in September 2019 refunded and choose a 
rate available to them in February 2020, with this being back dated and 
applied as if it took effect from February 2020. Any overpayments made from 
February 2020 onwards should again be refunded.
Once one of these options has been chosen and agreed, any adverse information 
resulting from the original error should be removed from Mr K and Miss Rs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman