DRN-4080985
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with a claim under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B contacted Zurich to make a claim following a flood at her home. As the claim 
continued, Mrs B raised some complaints as she was concerned about a range of issues, 
including the alternative accommodation and communication issues. Zurich responded to the 
complaints.
Mrs B complained again as she remained concerned about her accommodation, 
communication issues and the repairs being carried out. When Zurich replied, it accepted 
there had been issues with progressing the claim. It offered £600 compensation.
When Mrs B complained to this service, our investigator upheld it. She agreed with the £600 
compensation offered, but said Zurich needed to ensure Mrs B had input into the kitchen 
choice, that the repairs were appropriate to Mrs Bs needs, that Mrs B remained in temporary 
accommodation without her being asked to cover the costs and that the works were 
completed in a reasonable timeframe
Following our investigators findings, Mrs B asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im aware that Mrs B has raised a number of complaints with Zurich. Having looked at this, 
Im satisfied that the complaints Zurich replied to on 10 December 2021 and 28 March 2022 
werent referred to this service in time. So, I wont be looking at the issues raised in those 
complaints. However, Im able to look at the issues raised in the third complaint up until the 
date on which Zurich issued its final response, which was for the period between 29 March 
2022 and 28 October 2022. So, that is what my decision will focus on.
Im aware this has been a lengthy claim and that aspects of the claim have been difficult for 
Mrs B, but I was also sorry to learn of Mrs Bs personal circumstances, which Im aware 
have also impacted her. 
Mrs B was concerned that she was being chased for payment for the alternative 
accommodation she had moved into while the claim was ongoing. When Zurich replied to 
the complaint it said it would raise this and the issues with the kitchen to the loss adjusters. 
Since the complaint has been with the service, Zurich has confirmed that it will cover the 
cost of the accommodation, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. However, Im 
also mindful that it, understandably, caused Mrs B concern to have a lack of certainty about 
her accommodation and whether Zurich would pay for it.
Mrs B was also concerned that her kitchen wasnt being replaced on a like for like basis. Im 
aware that at the time the complaint was raised Mrs B hadnt chosen the kitchen materials. 
Zurich has since confirmed that its contractors would create a quote for the work that Mrs B 
could then consider and provide comments if she thought it wasnt appropriate. I think that 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs B was also concerned about the flooring as she had been told it would have a lip. Due to 
her personal circumstances, this wasnt appropriate for Mrs Bs needs. Zurich has since 
confirmed to this service that the flooring will be level, which I think is a reasonable 
resolution in the circumstances.
Mrs B also complained about Zurichs communication and said it had caused delays. Zurich 
said Mrs B was responsible for the delays. Ive seen that Mrs B had to chase Zurich for 
responses on issues during the claim, including reports and the schedule of work, and that it 
didnt always contact her to discuss issues when it said it would. From the information 
available to me, I think there were some issues for which Zurich was responsible. Im aware 
Zurich offered Mrs B £600 compensation for the poor service received. In the circumstances, 
I think that was fair to recognise the impact on her for the issues that arose during the period 
this complaint covers.
Im aware Mrs B was also concerned about more recent issues on the claim. However, they 
dont form part of the timeframe Ive looked at and Im unable to comment on these. Based 
on everything Ive seen, I uphold this complaint and require Zurich to take the actions 
described below.
Putting things right
Zurich should ensure it has paid the £600 compensation it offered. It should also pay Mrs Bs 
alternative accommodation costs, discuss the kitchen quote with her and give her input 
before offering settlement and ensure the flooring is appropriate, taking into account Mrs Bs 
needs. Zurich should also continue to monitor and progress the claim in a timely manner. My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Zurich Insurance PLC to:
Pay Mrs B the £600 compensation it offered if it hasnt already done so.
Ensure it pays the accommodation costs while Mrs B remains in alternative 
accommodation.
Ensure it discusses the kitchen quote with Mrs B and allows her input before offering a 
settlement.
Ensure the repairs to the floor are appropriately carried out and take into account Mrs Bs 
needs.
Continue to monitor and progress the claim in as timely a manner as possible
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman