DRN-4156814
The complaint
Mr K complains about the amount of refund he received from Marsh Finance Ltd following 
the rejection of a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MF.
In September 2022 Mr K contacted MF and advised that the car had failed a MOT due to 
emissions. It was found that the car had been modified by the previous owner. MF 
progressed Mr Ks complaint with the dealer and proposed a termination of the agreement 
and a refund of the advance amount paid by Mr K less a fair usage reduction.
The car was collected in January 2023. MF refunded 3 x monthly instalments to Mr K 
totalling £947.56. MF retained a fair usage charge of £3,470.88 (equivalent to 11 x monthly 
instalments of £315.56).
Mr K complained to MF. He didnt think the fair usage charge was fair, and said he wanted a 
refund of the repairs hed paid for and the expenses hed incurred, together with 
compensation for the time he wasnt able to use the car because of the MOT failure. Mr K 
sought compensation of around £6,720.
MF didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr K complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint.  She said that MF had refunded Mr K correctly but 
that it hadnt included interest, which it shouldve done. The investigator also said that Mr K 
had been inconvenienced by not being able to use the car for 3 months and that 
compensation of £200 should be paid. The investigator also said that MF should refund the 
MOT fee of £44.95.
Mr K didnt agree. He felt that the fair usage deduction was unfair. He said hed had the car 
serviced three times whist it had been in his possession, and hed paid for some repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MF has already agreed a rejection of the car so I wont be commenting on whether the car 
was of satisfactory quality or whether it was mis-sold. Instead, Ill focus on whether the sum 
refunded to Mr K was fair.
When a car is rejected, this service would expect monthly payments to be refunded subject 
toa deduction for fair usage. The legislation allows this. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 
doesnt specify the amount that can be deducted for fair usage, but any deduction must be 
fair and reasonable.
In this case, MF has deducted 11 x monthly payments for fair use. It says that Mr K covered 
over 23,000 miles in the car since the point of supply to the point where the complaint was 
made.
In the circumstances, I think the deduction for fair use is fair. Mr K has covered more than 
twice the average mileage that might reasonably be expected in the time he had the car. A 
deduction of one monthly payment for every 1000 miles covered is generally accepted as 
fair. MF hasnt been able to deduct this much.
I agree with the investigator that MF shouldve added interest to the amount refunded. I also 
agree that it should refund the MOT fee, because the MOT failure was directly related to the 
modification carried out by the previous owner.
Ive reviewed the information about the repairs and expenses Mr K incurred on the car 
during the time it was in his possession. However, Im not persuaded that these repairs and 
expenses are directly related to the modification carried out by the previous owner. Given 
the mileage covered by Mr K, I think its more likely that the repairs and expenses were 
necessitated because of general wear and tear.
Mr K has told this service that he wasnt able to work during the 3 months following the failed 
MOT because he couldnt use the car. Ive reviewed the bank statements provided by Mr K. 
When considering loss of income, I need to be satisfied that the loss of income was caused 
as a direct result of the car being unusable. Mr K hasnt provided any evidence from his 
employer to show that he wasnt able to work. Hes also told this service that he borrowed 
vehicles and asked for lifts. On balance, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that its 
fair to ask MF to pay compensation for loss of income. 
Ive gone on to consider the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K as a result of not 
being able to use the car. Mr K has told this service about the impact it had on his health. I 
think its fair to ask MF to compensate Mr K for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
Putting things right
To put things right, Marsh Finance Ltd must:
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the monthly repayments refunded to Mr K calculated 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the MOT fee of £44.95 and pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Marsh Finance Ltd must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman