DRN-2935642
The complaint
Mrs V complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Mrs V was provided with eight loans by Mr Lender between September 2013 and February 
2019. Further details about the loans are set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount (£)
1 24/09/2013 10/02/2014 1 250
2 21/02/2014 10/06/2014 1 550
3 28/06/2014 10/09/2014 1 400
4 11/09/2014 10/03/2015 6 1000
5 11/03/2015 21/09/2015 6 600
6 21/09/2015 18/03/2016 6 1000
7 02/12/2017 28/11/2018 12 1000
8 27/02/2019 sold 12 1000
Mrs V says that adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided. She 
says at the time of the loans she had defaults and a county court judgement against her on 
her credit file and Mr Lender should have realised that the loans werent affordable. She 
says that the loans from Mr Lender made her situation worse and caused her unnecessary 
stress. 
Mr Lender noted that Mrs V raised her complaint about its lending more than six years after 
the first four loans were provided. Therefore, it didnt initially consider these in its final 
response letter. In its final response letter dated November 2020, Mr Lender said that before 
loans 5 to 8 were provided it carried out affordability, employment and credit checks. It said 
that there was no indication at the time of the loans that they would be unaffordable for 
Mrs V. It noted there was a large gap in borrowing between loans 6 and 7 and also a 
significant gap between loans 7 and 8. 
While Mr Lender didnt uphold Mrs Vs complaint, it offered in its final response letter to take 
back her outstanding balance and write this off as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs V didnt accept Mr Lenders final response and referred her complaint to this service.
Following further discussion with this service, it was agreed that all eight loans provided to 
Mrs V would be considered. Our adjudicator thought that the loans fell into two lending 
chains. The first including loan 1 to 6 and the second including loans 7 and 8. He didnt think 
he had seen enough to say it was unfair for Mr Lender to provide loans 1, 2 and 7 and 8. But 
he said that by loan 3, Mrs Vs pattern of borrowing suggested she had become persistently 
reliant on this type of debt. Therefore, he didnt think loan 3 and the remaining loans in the 
first lending chain should have been provided.
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said that it checked Mrs Vs outgoings and 
that after these she still had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments. It 
didnt accept that Mrs Vs overall pattern of borrowing suggested she was persistently reliant 
on short term loans. It said that the nature of short term loans was that they were for 
unexpected expenses and so the amounts would vary depending on need. It also noted 
there were gaps between the loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs V could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs V could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.The early loans in this case were provided before CONC. At that time the relevant guidance 
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This refers to issues such as being able to the make the repayments 
without undue difficulties throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without undue difficulty means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Vs complaint.
Mrs V was provided with eight loans over an extended period of time. The first six loans 
were provided with no significant breaks. There was then a gap in Mrs Vs borrowing of 
around 20 months between the repayment of loan 6 and loan 7 being provided and so I think 
loan 7 should be considered as a new lending chain. While there was a gap of around three 
months between loan 7 being repaid and loan 8 being provided, I do not think this was 
enough to say that loan 8 should start a third lending chain. Therefore, I agree with our 
adjudicator that the loans should be considered as constituting two separate lending chains. 
The first chain includes loans 1 to 6 and the second chain includes loans 7 and 8.
Before the first loan was provided information was gathered about Mrs Vs income and 
expenses. The loan was repayable in a single instalment. As this was the first loan and 
having considered the repayment amount compared to Mrs Vs income, I find the checks 
carried out were sufficient. These suggested the loan was affordable therefore I do not find I 
can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mrs V rolled over her first loan four times before repaying it in February 2014. She then took 
out a second loan 11 days later for a much larger amount. The total repayment amount on 
this loan (including interest) accounted for a significant amount of her monthly income. 
However, I note from the information provided by Mr Lender Mrs V opted for interest only 
service on application meaning the capital repayment wasnt repayable in the first month. 
Having considered the second loan, I think it should have raised concerns with Mr Lender. 
Mrs V had rolled over her previous loan and then opted for the interest only service on 
application for this loan. However, as this was only the second loan in the lending chain I do 
not find at this stage I can say there was a pattern of borrowing that showed Mrs V was 
reliant on this type of debt. I think it would have been reasonable for further checks to have 
been carried out to ensure the lending was sustainably affordable for Mrs V but I do not have 
evidence to show that had these checks taken place the loan would have been shown to be 
unaffordable. Therefore, as the information gathered suggested it was affordable I do not 
think I have enough to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mrs V rolled over the second loan three times and repaid it in June 2014 before taking out a 
third loan 18 days later for £400. By the time of the third loan, Mrs V had been in receipt of 
payday loans from Mr Lender for around nine months with only short gaps between the 
loans. Given this, and that Mrs V had rolled over both of her previous loans more than once, 
I think this should have raised concerns that she was potentially reliant on this type of debt. 
While loan 3 was for a lower amount that loan 2, it was higher than the first loan and I do not 
find I can say there was a pattern that suggested Mrs V had significantly reduced her 
reliance on this type of debt. Therefore I do not think that loan 3 and the subsequent loans 
should have been provided.
I note that the subsequent loans (loans 4 to 6) were instalment loans, but they were also for 
larger amounts and there were no gaps between the lending. Therefore I do not find I have 
anything to suggest that Mrs Vs situation had significantly improved through the remainder of this first lending chain. Based on this I do not think that loans 3 to 6 in the first lending 
chain should have been provided.
There was then a significant break before the second lending chain started. Loans 7 and 8 
were repayable over 12 months each and there was a break in between the loans. Having 
considered the amount repayable compared to Mrs Vs income and noting these were the 
first two loans in the lending chain, I find the checks carried out were proportionate. As these 
didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loans and I do not find there was a pattern 
of borrowing at this stage that raised concerns, I do not find that I have enough to say that 
loans 7 and 8 shouldnt have been provided.
Overall, I agree with our adjudicator and I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 3 to 6.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided Mrs V with loans 3 to 6.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs V may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs V in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs V would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
In this case I do not think that loans 3 to 6 should have been provided. Therefore, PDL 
Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should: 
Refund Mrs V the total amount she paid for interest, fees and charges on loans 3 to 6 
along with 8% simple interest* on the individual payments from the date of payment 
to the date the complaint is settled.
If there is still an amount outstanding on Mrs Vs account, this refund can be used to 
offset that amount with any surplus being paid to Mrs V. 
The overall pattern of Mrs Vs borrowing for loans 3 to 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so these should be removed entirely from Mrs Vs 
credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman