DRN-3046051
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (the CCA) 
What happened
Mrs T was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems.  
Following a sales meeting, Mrs T agreed to enter into a contract with the installer for it to 
supply and install solar panel systems on two properties she owned.  To pay for this she also 
entered into a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
(BPF).  
Mrs T made a claim under section 75 of the CCA via her representatives.  She said the 
installer had told her that the solar panels would be self -funded, and that the monthly loan 
repayment costs would be more than offset by the feed in tariff (FIT) income.  But that 
hadnt happened, instead the monthly repayments had been much higher than the income. 
After our involvement, BPF made an offer to resolve the complaint.  BPF said it had 
calculated the potential savings and income across both properties for Mrs T over 10 years.  
It said it would restructure the loan so that Mrs T would pay no more than this over the loan 
term.  When it completed this calculation Mrs T was due a refund, as she had overpaid 
against the new loan amount. BPF offered to pay 8% interest on this amount and it offered 
£300 in recognition of the avoidable trouble and upset caused.  
Mrs T didnt accept the offer. Her representatives said she had paid the loan off early and 
had obtained the funds for that by taking out an interest only mortgage. Her representatives 
asked for the extra cost that incurred to be included in the redress.  The investigator 
reviewed the case and said that as Mrs Ts decision to refinance had significantly increased 
her costs, it wasnt fair to ask BPF to consider that extra cost. 
As Mrs T did not agree with this, the case has been passed to me to consider.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T says that during the sales meeting for the solar panels, she was told the solar panel 
system would be self-financing. BPF have accepted that the benefits were mis-represented 
to Mrs T, and as a result this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation 
for that misrepresentation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with the minimum formality.  In cases like 
this one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science.  My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances. 
Ive considered if it would be reasonable to put Mrs T back into the position, she would have 
been in had there been no misrepresentation.  However, here I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the panels from her properties.  
Ive considered the methodology BPF have submitted to this service to calculate the offer 
they made.  The methodology is based on a combination of actual performance and 
estimated future performance on the system. 
When calculating the estimated future benefits BPF uses a number of assumptions. These 
include the self-consumption rate, electricity price inflation, the degradation rate and the 
estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that these appear reasonable taking into 
account the actual known figures.  In summary Im satisfied that the assumptions used 
provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation. 
The area of dispute is whether or not that calculation should be adjusted to allow for any 
extra cost incurred by Mrs Ts decision to re-mortgage. When considering redress, Ive 
looked to ensure that the consumer is not financially disadvantaged by the misrepresentation 
that led her to enter into the contract to buy the panels. And this means I would look to 
include any additional cost that the consumer incurred as a direct result of the 
misrepresentation.  However, in this instance, Mrs T has said that she re-mortgaged, at a 
sum significantly higher than the amount outstanding on the solar panels loan, because she 
wanted to reduce her overall outgoings, and wanted the convenience of combining various 
debts and making one repayment a month, rather than several.  Whilst I understand this 
reasoning, I cant conclude that any extra cost Mrs T has incurred or may incur, is a result of 
the unexpected cost of the panels, but more a desire to simplify her overall financial 
situation.  As such I dont think it would be fair to ask BPF to do any more in this instance.   
I do expect BPF to update the interest paid to reflect the later date of settlement.  
I also consider the proposed award of £300 for the trouble and upset caused to be fair under 
the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, 
I require Clydesdale Financial Services Ltd to:
a) Allow Mrs T to keep the solar panel system
b) Estimate the potential savings and income to Mrs T from the panels over 10 years 
and ensure she pays no more than this.  Where possible they should use Mrs Ts 
electricity bills and FIT statements to do this. 
c) Add 8 % simple interest to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement *
d) Pay Mrs T £300 for the trouble and upset caused.  
*If Clydesdale Financial Services Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs T how much it has taken 
off.  It should also give Mrs T a certificate showing this, should she ask for one, so she can 
claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman