DRN-2119164
The complaint
Mrs P says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs P bought the policy in 1996, in connection with a store card shed taken out in 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mrs P says she didnt know the PPI had been added to her account, and that AXA 
didnt give her a proper choice about buying it. She says the store assistant phoned 
through the card application and told Mrs P it had been successful. Ive noted 
everything Mrs P has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed between Mrs 
P and AXA when the store card was taken out. Im also mindful that these events 
took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade 
over time.
Ive reviewed AXAs records of the sales of both the store card and the PPI. It seems 
the store card was taken out in 1995, but the PPI wasnt sold until 1996. The sale 
took place over the phone. I think its more likely than not that the call wouldve 
taken place between Mrs P and AXA. So on balance I think Mrs P wouldve realised 
she had a choice about whether or not to take the PPI. From what Ive seen, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make Mrs P aware 
that the policy was optional.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means that Mrs P had to 
cover her repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs P would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman