DRN-1424508
The complaint
Mr A complains about the decision taken by Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited 
(Cigna) to withdraw its personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A first took out an AA Family Injury Plan in December 1989. The policy was insured by 
Cigna. It renewed each year. 
In February 2019, Cigna told Mr A it wouldnt be able to renew his cover in December 2019, 
as the insurer was withdrawing the policy from the market. Mr A complained. 
Cigna rejected the complaint. It said it had made the decision to exit the particular insurance 
market, and there wasnt a product it could offer Mr A beyond December 2019. However, it 
had given him as much notice as it could and also set out where he may be able to source 
alternative cover. It therefore did not think it could have done anything more.  
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. He said he had carried on the policy under false 
pretences and he should therefore be refunded the premiums he had paid in previous years.  
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, but he did not think it should 
succeed. He said Cigna was under no obligation to continue the cover beyond the renewal 
date and he felt it had given Mr A sufficient notice that it would no longer be offering it. 
Though he appreciated Mr As frustrations, he said Cigna could take a decision about its 
operations; providing it had acted fairly, this service could not instruct it otherwise.  
Mr A said he wanted the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He said that he fervently 
believed that Cigna has obtained premiums by offering a product that it did not intend to 
continue once it carried more risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise the strength of feeling Mr A has about this matter. However, I do agree with the 
outcome reached by our investigator and for principally the same reasons. That means I 
wont be asking Cigna to do anything further.  
Mr As policy terms and conditions confirm that the policy is renewable annually. And the 
policy schedules show that his cover is for one year with the last policy schedule confirming 
that cover ended on 10 December 2019. 
Im satisfied that as this is an annually renewable policy rather than a long-term insurance 
contract with a specified or an open-ended term. As such, that means Cigna isnt obliged to 
continue to provide cover at the policy renewal date.  
That the insurer has decided to withdraw from this particular insurance market is a matter for 
it to decide, and not something this service is able to interfere in. Our role is to provide 
dispute resolution by looking at both sides of a complaint and deciding if a business has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
In this case, that means looking at Cignas actions in relation to the insurance contract 
between itself and Mr A. We are not a regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So, I cannot insist that a business reverses a policy decision or undoes an 
exercise of legitimate commercial judgement. And as Ive said above, Cigna wasnt required 
to continue the contract beyond the most recent policy year, which ended on 10 December 
2019.  
Cigna told Mr A that it wouldnt be able to renew his policy on 7 February 2019  that meant 
it gave him ten months notice to seek his insurance elsewhere, as well as providing 
suggestions of how he could go about that. I think this was reasonable notice, as it gave Mr 
A sufficient opportunity to look for cover with another insurer. 
Cigna confirmed that it made a business decision not to renew any of its personal accident 
policies from their next renewal date as it was exiting the health market. Im satisfied that this 
was a commercial decision which Cigna was entitled to make, and Mr A was treated 
equitably; he was notified in the same way as other customers in the same circumstances. 
I realise Mr A feels that he has paid premiums unreasonably for the cover since 1989 and he 
is naturally disappointed that it cannot continue. But even if this complaint could be upheld, I 
wouldnt agree that Mr A ought to be returned the premiums he had paid for previous years. 
Those premiums were paid in return for Cigna providing personal accident cover and if Mr A 
had needed to make a claim during that time, he would have been able to do so. I would not 
therefore propose returning premiums where Mr A has had the benefit of insurance that he 
wished to take out.  
My final decision
I realise my decision will not be what Mr A has hoped for. However, I do not find Cigna to 
have acted unfairly in relation to its decision to withdraw from the personal accident 
insurance market. I therefore reject this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman