DRN-3080516
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds settlement and handling of her 
home insurance claim for subsidence damage.
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs P raised a claim with Admiral for damage to her home caused by potential
subsidence. She reported damage to the front kitchen extension caused possibly by nearby
vegetation or defective underground drains. Admiral appointed its specialist subsidence
contractor to inspect the damage and handle the claim. It was found that damage was being
caused by nearby vegetation. Liability was accepted and the removal of the offending
vegetation arranged for early September 2018. Monthly monitoring of the building was then
undertaken through to May 2019 when the property was declared to be stable. The decision
was taken to proceed to repairs.
Admiral said it would pay Mrs P a disturbance allowance (DA) for her and her family for the
period she would be without use of her kitchen. Contractors were appointed and it was
initially decided that the utility meters (located on the front wall) would need relocating
before the repairs could take place. A quote was obtained from the utility company in late
June 2019 which Admiral thought was quite high. Admirals contractor suggested instead
that the front corner of the house be jacked up thereby avoiding the need for the meters to
be relocated.
Works to jack up the building commenced in early September 2019. Difficulties were
encountered on site in that the jacking couldnt be achieved due to the construction of the
slab and how it was tied to the building. Further investigations were required and it was
decided to install 3 piles along the front of the kitchen and then to jack the building off of
them. The specialist subsidence contractor then reported to Admiral that once these works
were complete the internal resetting of the floor and kitchen units could take place along with
redecoration works.
Jacking works were completed by mid-January 2020 and reinstatement was scheduled for
shortly after. In late February 2020 the contractor reported to Admiral that there were
difficulties on site. These included the need to strip out the entire kitchen (and place it in
storage) in order to enable the floor to be levelled. The kitchen itself was located in a former
garage and when it was removed, it was found that the workmanship when the garage had
been converted was poor. The contractor recommended further investigation because
reinstatement would now need to include both claim and non-claim related works.
Admiral reviewed the contractors findings. It thought that there was work that needed doing
that it couldnt cover because it wasnt peril related. Admiral thought it needed to look at
cash settling the claim.
Specifically the contractor had advised that the garage conversion (undertaken before Mrs P
moved in) wasnt up to current building regulations. The external walls were of single skin
brick into which an attempt to chase in cabling had been made. That had been electrically
tested but deemed unsatisfactory so a rewire of the room was necessary. It was identified
that a new foundation or support for floor joists, or a concrete slab, needed to be installed.
And that an internal stud or block skin be installed which could then be insulated. The
contractor said undertaking such work would reduce the internal dimensions of the kitchen
meaning the units wouldnt fit back in. So it thought a new kitchen and window would be
needed. Alternatively it suggested demolishing and rebuilding the garage and then installing
a new kitchen could prove cheaper. The contractor told Admiral that it estimated the cost to
do so was about £24,500 + VAT.
The contractor contacted Mrs P to say that because of the inherent defects within the
building that werent related to the subsidence claim itd been instructed by Admiral to cash
settle the remainder of the claim so she could arrange the works to rectify the issue herself.
It said the items removed into storage would be returned.
Mrs P complained to Admiral. She said her kitchen had been removed but she hadnt been
told what was going on. She said the contractor had told her she wasnt covered and was
looking to force a cash settlement on her but that the amount shed been offered wasnt
enough to complete the works needed to reinstate her kitchen. Mrs P said that when the
garage was converted it was building regulation compliant for its time so she didnt think it
was fair for Admiral to use that as a reason not to finish repairing her home.
Mrs P said she wouldnt accept Admirals cash offer and she told Admiral she wanted it to
proceed with the repairs. She also complained that no repairs had been carried out since
June 2018 which had left her and her family with uncomfortable living conditions, particularly
since the removal of the kitchen because this had left her without cooking and laundry
facilities. Mrs P also said that her home had been inspected by Admirals contractor many
times so she felt any issues couldve been identified earlier. Finally, she said it was unfair to
use current building regulations as a reason to force a cash settlement on her.
Admiral looked into Mrs Ps complaint and recommended that it was upheld in part. It said it
accepted her complaints about being left with uncomfortable living conditions and no cooking
and laundry facilities. Admiral paid Mrs P compensation of £300 for its service shortcomings
and the inconvenience shed been caused. It paid her a further £50 for the length of time it
took to respond to her complaint and £50.98 in interest for not paying her the agreed DA
(totalling of £2,850) in good time.
In respect of Mrs Ps complaint about how the remainder of her claim was being settled,
Admiral referred her to the policy terms and conditions which, it said, gave it the choice
about how to settle a claim. It said it was unable to reinstate her property because it couldnt
return a building to a condition that didnt meet current building regulations nor was it
authorised to carry out work that was unrelated to the claim itself. So it said it was paying a
cash settlement to the limit of its liability. Admiral said it had acted reasonably.
Admiral said the claim had moved along without delay and whilst the issue with the location
of the utility meters and the foundations had caused some delay, it was unavoidable in the
circumstances. Once the issue with the meters was resolved there was a swift move to
repairs albeit with a short delay whilst the kitchen was moved off-site. Whilst Mrs P hadnt
promptly received a DA for her time without kitchen facilities, Admiral said it had apologised
and paid this together with interest.
In respect of her complaint about not discovering the issues sooner, Admiral said it wasnt
until the kitchen had been stripped out that the issues were capable of being discovered so it
didnt think it had failed Mrs P in this regard.
Finally, Admiral referred to the policy term which stated that it wouldnt pay any extra cost to
change, extend or improve a building in any way if being rebuilt. And it said her policy didntcover her for faulty design or workmanship so it hadnt unreasonably relied on this policy
term to decline any works that were the result of either.
Unhappy with Admirals findings, Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator looked
into her complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She thought that Admiral had
fairly relied on the policy exclusion for poor workmanship so she didnt think itd unfairly
declined to cover the non-claim related costs associated with reinstatement. And whilst she
noted that this service typically required insurers to complete repairs they had started
regardless of the cost involved, she felt the circumstances related to Mrs Ps claim were
exceptional such that it was fair for Admiral to step back and decline to carry on with the
repair. Our investigator thought Admiral had dealt with Mrs Ps other complaints reasonably
and had compensated her fairly for the inconvenience itd caused her.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 recommending that the complaint was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings:
Mrs P has made five complaints. These are as follows:
1. she is unhappy that Admiral has decided to cash settle the remainder of her claim rather 
than complete the repair it started;
2. that no repairs were carried out on her home from June 2018, leading to uncomfortable 
conditions for her family;
3. that her kitchen was removed leaving her with no cooking or laundry facilities;
4. that her home has been inspected on multiple occasions so she feels the issues should 
have been identified earlier;
5. that its unfair to use current building regulations as the reason for forced cash 
settlement.
It is worth mentioning at the outset that its my understanding that Mrs P has since
proceeded to repair her kitchen herself. Ive seen an estimate she submitted with her
complaint setting out the works to be undertaken that totalled £6,500. I can see the quote
supplied included an allowance for refitting a kitchen but excluded its supply. It is my
understanding that Mrs P arranged for the supply of new kitchen cupboards but reused the
existing appliances and worktops. Mrs P said she had the work done in about July 2020
having struggled to live without a kitchen for over six months by that point. She has provided
photographs of her old units that Admiral had redelivered after it decided to cash settle and I
can see that some of them have been damaged. Mrs P says the damage was done either
during the strip out or in transit. Ive seen evidence that she raised this issue with Admiral.
I think that Admiral has dealt with complaints numbered 2, 3 and 4 fairly. I say that because,
from reviewing Admirals file I think it moved Mrs Ps claim along well. It accepted it quickly,
removed the vegetation swiftly and then moved to a period of monitoring straight after. Once
the house was declared stable it was decided to proceed with the repairs straightaway. I can
see there was a bit of a wait caused by the issue associated with the moving of the utility
meters and the decision to install 3 piles, but I dont think the wait whilst these matters were
dealt with was unreasonable. I can see that Admiral was actively moving the claim along at
all times.
Subsidence claims are typically one of the most protracted types of home insurance claim
there are. Thats because the cause of damage is often hard to identify and deal with and,
invariably, there has to be a period of monitoring in order to ensure a property has fully
stabilised before any superstructure repairs are carried out. Thats what happened here.Theres no point in repairing a home that hasnt stabilised. So whilst I appreciate that it
mustve seemed a long time for Mrs P between the claim being accepted in July 2018 and
the decision to move to repair in January 2020, such a timeframe isnt unreasonable with
claims of this nature.
Whilst conditions may have been far from ideal up to the point the kitchen was removed in
about February 2020, theres no evidence that Mrs P was without any essential services up
to then. Thereafter, I can see that Admiral paid Mrs P a DA for the period her kitchen was in
storage before being returned to her and the cash settlement paid. I know that Admiral failed
to pay that allowance promptly but it has acknowledged it was at fault and paid Mrs P
interest on top of the allowance (at this services usual rate) for the period she was without it.
And its paid her compensation of £300 for any inconvenience she was caused by its poor
service along with a further £50 for the delay in addressing her complaint. So I think Admiral
has dealt with Mrs Ps second and third complaints fairly and reasonably and the
compensation (and interest) it has paid her is in line with awards made by this service in
similar complaints. So I dont propose to make Admiral do any more in respect of these two
complaints.
In respect of Mrs Ps fourth complaint I cant fairly say that Admiral failed her by not
identifying the issues with the construction of her kitchen sooner. From the evidence Ive
seen, the issues that arose didnt manifest themselves until the kitchen was stripped out.
And, similarly, I accept that it must have been very disappointing for Mrs P to learn there
were difficulties so far into the claim and at the point she expected her home to be
reinstated. But I cant reasonably say that Admiral shouldve identified the issues that arose
any sooner than it did.
But in respect of Mrs Ps first and fifth complaints, I dont think that Admiral has treated her
fairly or reasonably. I think Admiral needs to do more. Ill explain why.
Admiral will be aware of this services long-standing approach to contracts of repair. We say
that once an insurer has entered into a repair contract with the policyholder  like it did with
Mrs P  an agreement has been reached that the claim will be settled by repairing any
damage. If a repair goes wrong or turns out to be more complicated (or expensive) than an
insurer originally thought we dont consider it fair or reasonable for the insurer to change its
mind and seek to settle the claim on another basis (say, by paying cash). Effectively the
insurer is stuck with the choice it has made to repair however much it then goes on to cost.
There are rare occasions where we think it is fair for an insurer to step back from a repair but
usually that only happens if a consumer has acted so unreasonably that the relationship
between them and the insurer has irretrievably broken down. There is no evidence that this
is what has happened with this claim.
That means that Admiral should have continued with the contract of repair. It isnt fair or
reasonable to offer to settle the remainder of the claim by cash. If Admiral couldnt reinstate
the kitchen without bringing the building up to current building regulations then that is what it
needed to do. I accept Admiral couldnt reinstate the building to its existing condition if the
works needed would require the kitchen to be brought up to current standards. And I accept
that any work needed to comply with current regulations constitutes betterment. But the
contract of insurance Mrs P has is a contract of indemnity. Admiral has accepted her claim
and she is entitled to an effective and lasting repair. The damage must be fully put right. And
if the only way to carry out an effective and lasting repair to the insured damage is to carry
out work on uninsured damage then this service considers that that is the fair and
reasonable thing for the insurer to do.
And whilst I note that Admiral has relied on the policy term that states it wont pay any extracost to change, extend or improve a building, I dont think it can fairly rely on that clause
because it should be well aware of this services approach to contracts of repair (as Ive set
out above).
Admiral has said it can rely on some specific policy clauses in order to both limit the amount
it pays Mrs P and in order to cash settle the balance of the claim. Im afraid I dont agree.
Admiral accepted the claim so I dont consider it to be fair to now try and rely on a policy
exclusion, or term, to limit settlement. The time for applying any exclusion in order to limit
liability has passed. As I said, the claim has been accepted and a contract of repair entered
into.
Specifically Admiral has said its relying on the faulty design or poor workmanship
exclusion. It says this exclusion protects it regardless of whether Mrs P knew the garage
conversion had been carried out to a poor standard. The clause Admiral seeks to rely on
says:
We will not cover you or be liable for any of the following:
6. Faulty design
Any loss or damage caused by faulty design, plan, specification, materials or workmanship.
Ive seen no evidence that the garage conversion  at the time it was undertaken  was the
result of poor design or workmanship or that, if it was, it was this that caused the damage to
Mrs Ps home. Mrs P says the garage was converted into a kitchen in the 1960s (by a
previous owner) and was building regulation compliant at the time. It seems to me that
Admiral is applying current building regulations retrospectively and concluding that, because
the conversion doesnt comply with modern standards, then it is the result of poor
workmanship or faulty design. Consequently it thinks it can apply the above exclusion.
I think that its unfair for Admiral to attempt to retrospectively apply this clause to Mrs Ps
(accepted) claim. Whilst the garage conversion may not comply with current building
regulations, Ive seen no evidence that, at the time it was converted, that it didnt (such that it
could be concluded thered been poor workmanship or faulty design).
And, the exclusion says it wont provide cover for loss or damage caused by faulty design or
workmanship. But the loss or damage to Mrs Ps home has been caused by subsidence, not
faulty design or workmanship. So, the fact that the design/workmanship of the conversion
doesnt comply with modern standards isnt the reason Mrs Ps home was damaged in any
event. It follows that I cant see any grounds for Admiral applying this exclusion to Mrs Ps
claim.
And I cant agree with Admiral either that its not authorised to carry out work that is not
related to the cause of damage. It isnt a case of being authorised but rather of discharging
its obligations under the contract of repair.
It follows from what Ive said above that I dont think Admiral has dealt with Mrs Ps first and
fifth complaints fairly and reasonably.
 
Finally, Mrs P has said that as a result of her house being jacked up her kitchen window will
no longer open. Shes sent us some photos and it appears to be the case. But I cant see
that she has raised this with Admiral at any point so she should do so now. Depending on 
Admirals response, she could raise a further complaint if she needed to.
I recommended that Admiral should reimburse Mrs P the amount she paid to her contractor 
to reinstate her kitchen (£6,500) less any amount it had already paid her in cash (which I 
understood to be £4,512.98). I also said that Admiral should pay Mrs P for the kitchen units she had to replace as a consequence of them being damaged by Admirals contractors when 
they were removed into storage. I also recommended that interest was paid on both 
amounts at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs P paid the 
invoices to the date that Admiral settled my award. And I said that whilst Admiral had paid 
Mrs P a DA up to and including 11 May 2020 she remained without use of her kitchen until 
after this date. So I said that Mrs P should let our investigator know the date her kitchen 
facilities were restored and that Admiral should pay her a DA (at the same rate of £30 it had 
been paying her up to 11 May 2020) from 12 May until the date the kitchen was reinstated. 
And finally I said I thought that Admiral should pay Mrs P a further £500 in compensation for 
the avoidable trouble and upset she was caused by its decision to abandon the repair. 
Admiral replied to my provisional decision to say it accepted it and that it was writing to 
Mrs P immediately to request evidence of the costs Id referred to along with confirmation of 
the date the kitchen was reinstated so it could calculate the DA. It also said it would 
immediately raise the £500 compensation payment and let Mrs P know that it had. 
Mrs P replied to say the kitchen works were completed in early September 2020 and that 
she was able to reuse it from 5 September 2020. She said itd taken longer than expected to 
obtain the necessary materials and to complete the works because of Covid. Mrs P said 
Admiral had been in contact with her and shed given it the completed work date and sent 
the invoices it had asked her for. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties to this complaint have accepted my provisional decision, my provisional 
findings now form part of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I dont think Admiral treated Mrs P fairly and reasonably by forcing a cash settlement on her 
in respect of the reinstatement works. It entered into a contract of repair and it shouldve 
seen that through to its conclusion rather than abandoning its obligations part way through. 
And the cash settlement Admiral paid to Mrs P fell short of what was necessary for her to 
reinstate her kitchen. Mrs P has provided us, and now Admiral, with her contractors detailed 
quote which set out the reinstatement work undertaken and the cost of doing it  namely 
£6,500. Admiral has agreed to pay this amount to Mrs P less any amount it had already paid 
to her, in cash, in respect of the insured work (I understand this to have been £4,512.98).
Mrs P provided evidence that some of her kitchen units were damaged either during
removal, storage, or transit. She raised this with Admiral soon after they were returned to her 
from storage and photographs of the damaged units were provided. Consequently, I dont 
think Mrs P unreasonably decided to replace her kitchen units; Admiral has now agreed the 
same. Mrs P has sent her invoice for the units to Admiral and I require it to reimburse Mrs P 
for her full outlay in this respect. As I said previously, I understand Mrs P reused the 
appliances and worktops.
 
As Mrs P has been out of pocket for the balance of the reinstatement works and the cost of
replacing her kitchen, I require Admiral pay interest on both amounts at this services usual 
rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs P paid the invoices to the date Admiral settles 
my award (Mrs P having now provided it with proof of payment).I also require Admiral to pay Mrs P a disturbance allowance of £30 per day (for 2 adults and 
2 children) from 12 May 2020 up to, and including, 4 September 2020 (Mrs P having use of 
her reinstated kitchen from 5 September 2020 onwards). 
Finally, I think that Mrs P has been put to some considerable trouble and inconvenience by
Admirals actions. All insurance claims attract a certain level of hassle, thats to be expected.
But where an insurer, through its words or deeds, makes an already stressful situation worse
this service can require it to financially compensate the policyholder. Ive thought here about
the avoidable issues Admirals actions caused Mrs P, and I think an award of compensation
is warranted in the circumstances. Mrs P was abandoned by Admiral to organise a
contractor to finish the repair and arrange to replace her kitchen cupboards herself. She also
had to deal with the distress of not having enough money to complete the repairs. I think
Admiral should pay Mrs P compensation of £500 (in addition to the £300 it has already paid
her) for the trouble and upset its handling of the claim caused her.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
the interest it pays Mrs P, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P
a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to take the steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman