DRN-3270712
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) lent to 
her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mrs M was given a loan by ELL in December 2018. She borrowed £5,100 that she agreed to 
repay in 36 monthly instalments. A large proportion of the loan was used to consolidate 
some other debts that Mrs M was repaying. Mrs M has faced problems repaying her loan 
and a balance remained outstanding when she made her complaint.
Mrs Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
results of ELLs checks should have led the lender to conclude that it was unlikely that Mrs M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So he didnt think the loan should 
have been agreed and he asked ELL to put things right.
ELL didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mrs M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Mrs M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs M. In practice 
this meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mrs M undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mrs M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mrs M.
ELL gathered some information from Mrs M before it agreed the loan. It asked her for details 
of her income, and used some industry statistical data to estimate her normal expenditure. 
And it checked Mrs Ms credit file to see how much she was repaying to other creditors, and 
how she had managed credit in the past. ELL also verified Mrs Ms employment through an 
offer letter she had received, and a phone call to her work. And Mrs M gave ELL some bank 
statements so it could further check what shed said about her finances.
Mrs M was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that ELL wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive set out above were 
sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that ELLs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
Mrs M told ELL that she had started a new job around two weeks before she applied for the 
loan. It appears from her bank statements, and the salary information from the job offer, that 
she would receive a much higher salary in her new role. But on taking the new job Mrs M 
entered into a six-month probationary period. During that time her new employer could 
terminate her employment by giving just one weeks notice.
I accept that at the start of a new contract of employment both parties honest intention is for 
the job holder to succeed and complete their probationary period. But I am also very aware 
that probationary periods are in place for a reason. In some cases a new employee is 
unsuitable for their new job  or they find it unattractive. A probationary period allows for the 
termination of that employment with minimal notice, or cost, to either party. So I think ELL 
should have been extremely mindful that Mrs Ms employment wasnt as secure as it might 
have been had she been in the role for a longer period of time.The credit check that ELL performed showed that Mrs M was heavily indebted at that time. 
And it showed that she had made extensive use of short-term lending in the past. I think 
those together might have led to a conclusion that her disposable income wasnt as great, or 
consistent, as ELLs estimations might have suggested.
Mrs M appeared to have met her contractual repayments on her recent borrowing. But there 
was evidence from the credit check that Mrs M had fallen behind on her repayments on a 
number of accounts in the past. As ELL will be aware, experience often suggests that 
consumers who have faced problems managing their money in the past have a greater 
likelihood of facing similar problems in the future.
I accept that Mrs M told ELL that she wanted to use the loan to refinance some of her 
existing debts. ELL repaid one of those debts on her behalf out of some of the proceeds of 
the loan. And I think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on Mrs M to repay the other debts 
herself when the loan was given to her. But after those loans had been repaid Mrs M would 
still be left with a significant amount of other debt to service.
I think of greater concern is the age of some of that debt. Mrs M had taken a significant hire 
purchase loan just over a month earlier. And the largest of the loans she was consolidating 
had been taken out at the same time. The other remaining debts were on credit and store 
card accounts. Two of those accounts were approaching not insignificant limits  and one of 
those accounts was less than six months old.
I think that the pattern of Mrs Ms borrowing was indicative of someone that was finding it 
difficult to manage their money. And whilst ELLs checks suggested that Mrs M would be 
able to afford her repayments, that was on the basis that she successfully passed her 
probationary period and retained her employment. I think, taking all that together, there were 
too many risks for ELL to decide it would be responsible to lend to Mrs M at that time. So 
I dont think the loan should have been agreed, and ELL needs to put things right.
As I said earlier, Mrs M still owes a proportion of the capital she borrowed. Generally, in 
cases such as these, I think it reasonable for a consumer to repay the principal they 
borrowed. I have thought carefully about whether that approach would be fair in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has told us that she was in a Debt Management Plan (DMP) shortly before she 
asked for this loan. She says that should have led ELL to decline her application. But it 
doesnt seem to me that ELL had any realistic method of discovering the DMP unless Mrs M 
declared it  which she didnt. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair to divert from my 
normal approach here  I think it is reasonable to expect Mrs M to repay the principal that 
she borrowed.
I have seen that Mrs M has engaged the assistance of a debt management charity and the 
charity has been working with her and her creditors (including ELL) to agree a fair repayment 
plan. Following my decision I expect those discussions will need to continue, albeit with a 
reduced level of debt. I remind ELL that it should continue to treat Mrs M positively and 
sympathetically when agreeing a repayment arrangement. 
Putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed to lend to Mrs M in December 2018. But I think it is 
reasonable that Mrs M still repays the principal that she borrowed. So ELL should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mrs M made towards this loan as payments towards the capitalif reworking Mrs Ms loan account as Ive directed results in Mrs M effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
if, as seems likely, reworking Mrs Ms loan account leaves an amount of capital still to 
be paid, then I remind ELL that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs M
remove any adverse information recorded so far on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to 
the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman