DRN-4433552
The complaint
Ms J and Mr M have complained that Aviva life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt 
correctly compensate them for their Lifetime Security Plan in 2002 following a Regulatory 
Review. 
What happened
In July 1997 Ms J and Mr M took out a reviewable whole of life policy  a Lifetime Security 
Plan  along with a mortgage from a predecessor business of Aviva which took over 
responsibility for the administration of the policy in 2011.
In 2002 it was found that the Lifetime Security Plans had been under-priced, and the 
regulator directed that a review be carried out with a view to compensation. As a result of the 
review Aviva added £370.42 worth of units to Ms J and Mr Ms policy in July 2002.              
Ms J and Mr M were written to at the time but didnt receive the letter. 
In May 2021 Ms J and Mr M submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to Aviva but 
in error it provided data that included other customers information. Ms J and Mrs M deleted 
this information at the request of Aviva. But prior to the deletion of the data Ms J and Mr M 
say they found evidence that other customers were compensated differently than their own 
policy. They wanted to know more about this.
Ms J and Mr M corresponded with Aviva and raised a complaint. Aviva responded to the 
DSAR issue, but Ms J and Mr M were given differing information about the review and what 
remediation had taken place for their policy. Aviva issued its final response to                      
Ms J and Mr Ms complaint on 10 March 2022. It said;
In relation to the DSAR it explained the disparity in the number of documents that 
had been provided  they were duplicates or didnt contain data referring to            
Ms J and Mr M. It thanked them for their help in destroying the incorrect information 
sent in error. It had previously explained how the data error had occurred and had 
apologised. Ms J and Mr Ms new DSAR request had been dealt with and there was 
nothing missing or outstanding regarding this. 
Its gone away process had been addressed by this service in 2021.
Regarding the 2002 Regulatory Review, Lifetime Security Plans were within its scope 
and mispricing wasnt limited to policies taken out for inheritance tax (IHT) planning 
on a standard cover basis. But it was only these policies that the Lifetime Security 
Plan Compensation Project remediated with an on-going top up to the premium. 
All other policies to be compensated were given additional units into the policy. Its 
previous response wasnt clear about this, and it apologised that it had been 
suggested that maximum cover policies werent affected or that other mis-pricing 
factors might not have been applied to Ms J and Mr Ms policy.  
There wasnt a record of the compensation calculations for individual policies but as 
the policy was taken out for family protection  it covered a mortgage, rather than for 
IHT planning  the compensation would be by a one-off addition to the units held in 
the policy.
Any information shared with other businesses had been for the purpose of ensuring 
Ms J and Mr M received complete and accurate answers and information.
It offered £350 for the time it had taken to respond.
It provided an additional response to Ms J and Mr Ms complaint on 14 April 2022. 
Remaining dissatisfied with the outcome, Ms J and Mr M brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think that Aviva needed to do anything 
more. She said;
Ms J and Mr M were correctly compensated with a one-off addition of units into their 
plan rather than an ongoing top-up to the premium. This was in line with the 
regulators guidelines and Aviva acted fairly by complying. 
Regarding the 2021 DSAR and Aviva sending data which included other customer 
information, this service couldnt make a finding on whether a data breach occurred  
that was the role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But we could look 
to see if the request itself was dealt with in the appropriate timescales.
Ms J and Mr M issued two further DSARs which Aviva responded to plus it also 
provided additional information in response to queries. It provided everything it held 
and which it was required to do. 
Aviva had paid a total compensation of £850 for delayed responses and the error 
made with the initial DSAR. This was more than this service would recommend and 
the investigator thought the outcome was fair.
Ms J and Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. They provided further information and 
evidence for the investigators consideration, but that didnt cause the investigator to change 
her mind.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties and
Ive done so using my own words. And Im not going to respond to every point that has been 
made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this but, Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach and it reflects 
the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it as I havent, Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
After reviewing the complaint file about the DSAR and the 2002 remediation, I have reached 
the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
2002 remediation
On 11 July 2002 Ms J and Mr M were written to by the Lifetime Security Plan Compensation 
Team of (the predecessor of) Aviva. That letter goes onto say;As you know, we have identified an error in your Lifetime Security Plan. I am pleased 
to tell you that we have now amended your Plan to put it into the position that it would 
have been in if no error had been made. 
Action taken to correct the problem
We have corrected the error in the administration system so that the problem will not 
affect your Plan in future.
We have also added units to your Plan to increase its value. This means that you 
now have the value of units that you would have had if the administration error had 
not occurred. 
Value of your Plan before 
units were addedValue of your Plan after 
units were addedIncrease in value of 
your Plan
£1,348.62 £1,719.04 £370.42
..
When Ms J and Mr M later sought more information about the 2002 addition of units to their 
policy, they were given various explanations and conflicting information about the 
adjustments that had been made. I appreciate this must have been very frustrating for       
Ms J and Mr M as they couldnt be sure what had been added to their policy, or why, despite 
trying to seek clarity and being concerned they were treated differently than other policy 
holders.
Ms J and Mr M were told that only plans that were taken out for IHT purposes on a standard 
cover basis were topped up with ongoing premiums rather than a one-off addition of units. 
But Ms J and Mr M say that when they were incorrectly sent the unredacted file further to 
their DSAR request they were surprised to find information that some policy holders had 
been receiving additional payments since 2002. And in particular correspondence suggested 
that a standard cover policy had received additional units as well as monthly premium top 
ups. They said it wasnt correct that only policies taken out for IHT purposes on a standard 
cover basis were compensated with premium top ups while others received a one-off 
compensation. 
However, my understanding is that Aviva  as agreed with the regulator  used different 
methodologies for the different types of policy to calculate compensation. Ms J and Mr M 
had a policy to cover their mortgage and remediation for that type of policy was to add units 
rather than top up ongoing premiums which was limited to the IHT planning policies. 
Clearly my assessment of this point is limited by the amount of information and records that 
are still available from the time of the review. Aviva hasnt been able to provide any of those 
records. And while Ms J and Mr M might not agree, Ive not been given any reason to not to 
take what Aviva has said at face value. And I would also say that I dont find it surprising that 
there is a lack of documentation from the time. I say this because of the length of time since 
the review and businesses are not obliged to keep documents indefinitely. I know              
Ms J and Mr M are very frustrated by this and in particular because of the information they 
say they gleaned from the unredacted documents they received in error. 
However, I havent seen anything to indicate that Ms J and Mr M werent compensated as 
they should have been and in line with what was agreed with the regulator at the time of the Regulatory Review in 2002. This is partly because I cant review the calculations behind the 
redress method as they simply arent available to me. And when information or evidence 
isnt available to me, I can reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable conclusion to a 
complaint on the balance of probabilities and what I think most likely happened. 
And in the absence of all of the details, in this case, I think its more likely than not that      
Ms J and Mr M were correctly compensated. I say this because the compensation 
methodology was agreed with the regulator at the time, and I wouldnt expect a regulated 
business not to comply with remediation requirements imposed by the regulator. 
Aviva also told us that the review was carried out by a firm of external auditors and the 
outcome delivered to each individual customer. But due to the length of time that has 
passed, and the fact that Aviva didnt do those calculations itself, it doesnt hold that 
information, which I accept. However, we do know that Ms J and Mr M were written to in  
July 2002 about the addition of the units to their policy, so it seems likely that addition came 
about as a result of the under-pricing Regulatory Review. 
In bringing their complaint, Ms J and Mr M say that Aviva should be open and transparent, 
and an independent actuary should be appointed to review their policy on the same terms as 
policies reviewed in 2002. To put the matter right, they say Aviva should reinstate the policy 
at its own cost or pay them compensation for the loss of cover. 
While I appreciate that Ms J and Mr M have been given conflicting information about the 
remediation that took place for their policy which must have been vexing for them, I havent 
been given anything to suggest to me that Aviva  despite the conflicting information         
Ms J and Mr M were given  hasnt been open and transparent. And I also think  on the 
balance of probabilities  that its unlikely that their policy wasnt reviewed on the same 
terms as other similar policies during the 2002 Regulatory Review. I dont have sufficient 
evidence for me to conclude that they were treated differently, or to their detriment. 
Ms J and Mr M have said the remediation of the policy wasnt proportionate to the problem 
that was identified by the regulator. The policies were mis-priced, and the premium paid 
would have to significantly increase to cover the benefits. As a result, their policy failed 
reviews in 2007 and 2013 and they want an explanation for this. However, I think this relates 
to the product itself and how it works. I am aware that Ms J and Mr M have raised a further 
complaint with Aviva about the failed policy reviews and the charges adjustment of their 
Lifetime Security Plan, and because of this these points would be more suited to being 
addressed in that complaint. 
Ive reviewed all of the correspondence Ms J and Mr M had with Aviva and about the 2002 
remediation, how it was calculated and what it was being offered for.  
Clearly there was some confusion with the information Ms J and Mr M were given in 
response to their enquiries about the remediation and how much it was. But Aviva has 
confirmed that Ms J and Mr Ms policy was remediated by adding units in line with the type of 
policy they held. And it has apologised for any misinformation or misunderstanding. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this was in any way done with intent or to deliberately misinform            
Ms J and Mr M. 
Data Subject Access Requests
Its accepted by the parties that Aviva sent Ms J and Mr M an unredacted file in error. 
In response to the investigators assessments, Ms J and Mr M said that on the basis of the 
information available to me they couldnt see how I could reach a different conclusion than the investigator. They were frustrated by this and thought it unreasonable for them to have to 
accept an outcome predicated on vague and contradictory guesswork. 
Ms J and Mr M suggested I obtain a copy of the unredacted file. We did ask Aviva for a copy 
of the unredacted file but because of other data contained in it, it was unable to provide it. I 
would expect for a regulated business such as Aviva to provide me with all relevant 
documentation that it is able to provide in response to a request and in order for me to 
assess the complaint. Similar to what I have said above, I take it at face value that Aviva isnt 
able to provide the information and Ive seen nothing to suggest there is anything underhand 
in it not providing me with a copy of the unredacted file. 
Ms J and Mr M have provided notes they took when they received the redacted file which 
they say suggests they were treated differently than other customers. But the original 
information that gave rise to those notes isnt available to me to assess and in any event, it 
deals with other customers compensation so I cant know what was being redressed. So, it 
wouldnt be appropriate, or fair and reasonable for me to reach a conclusion that                
Ms J and Mr M hadnt been compensated correctly because of that.
From the information I have, Im satisfied that Aviva has dealt with Ms J and Mr Ms DSAR 
requests as it should have done from a service point of view, albeit with some delays and I 
note Aviva has already offered compensation for this. But I cant comment on the information 
itself that Aviva has provided or whether it should have provided anything more for             
Ms J and Mr M than it already has. That is a role for the ICO as it deals with complaints 
about information rights. So, it is for Ms J and Mr M to refer any issues they may have if they 
wish. 
Aviva confirmed to Ms J and Mr M that regarding the DSAR documents which had been 
redacted, that had been done because of Legal Professional Privilege. It confirmed the only 
documents that had been withheld or redacted due to this exemption were documents which 
contained legal advice or opinion provided by its lawyers as Aviva were the clients. It wasnt 
used as a blanket exemption, and it confirmed that all data about Ms J and Mr M had been 
provided in response to their DSARs. I dont find this to be an unreasonable explanation but 
again, Ms J and Mr M may wish to refer to the ICO if they want further investigation into this. 
Overall, and taking all of the above into account, I dont think Aviva needs to do anything 
more. Clearly there were delays and errors in the information Ms J and Mr M were given. But 
with reference to the DSAR, its recognised the unredacted file was provided and Aviva have 
apologised for that and offered compensation. 
Regarding the Regulatory Review remediation paid in July 2002, from the information 
available, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, Aviva has compensated           
Ms J and Mr M as it should have done.  
Ms J and Mr M have already been compensated with £850 because of the delays, errors 
and being sent the unredacted DSAR file. Ms J and Mr M dont think the compensation is 
adequate, but I think it is a fair reflection of the inconvenience they have suffered and is 
more than I would award under similar circumstances. So, I dont award any additional 
payment. 
Taking all of the above into account, Im not upholding Ms J and Mr Ms complaint and I 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything more. No doubt Ms J and Mr M will be disappointed 
with the outcome  its clear they feel very strongly about their complaint, and Id like to 
thank them for their submissions. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have 
reached the decision that I have. My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Ms J and Mr Ms complaint against                           
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited about the 2002 Regulatory Review remediation and the 
DSARs. Im not asking Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to do anything more than it has 
done already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman