DRN-2567509
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly handled a claim under his 
motor insurance policy, saying its car valuation as settlement is inaccurate. 
What happened
The complaint is well known to both parties and Ive summarised the key points below:
Mr M made a claim under his Aviva car insurance policy following another vehicle 
reversing into his car.
The claim was accepted and Aviva declared the car to be a total loss. It said it would 
pay him the market value for his car in line with the policy, which was £6,077. Mr M 
disagreed, saying a figure of £7,000 would be more accurate. Following some back 
and forth, Aviva increased its offer to £6,525.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to Aviva. It reiterated its position on its 
valuation, and said it had based this on three valuation trade guides. Mr M brought 
his complaint to this service and also said he was unhappy with the courtesy car hed 
been given. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying from her own 
research, the valuation offered was fair. And she didnt think Aviva had made any 
mistakes across the life of the claim. 
Mr M disagreed, saying the highest valuation the investigator found should be the 
sum Aviva pays him. And he said greater focus should be given to adverts hed seen, 
rather than the trade guides used. This didnt change the investigators mind and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Aviva accepted Mr Ms claim and decided to settle by paying the market value of 
the car. This is defined within the policy as the cost of replacing your car with one of 
the same make, model, specification and condition. The policy also says the most 
we will pay will be the market value of your car at the time of the loss.
Our service doesnt value vehicles ourselves. We check the valuation that an insurer 
has placed on a car and provide our opinion on whether its fair. We do this by 
consulting various recognised trade guides, as well as other evidence provided. 
Mr M has provided adverts of similar cars to his with a higher price than Avivas 
valuation. Ive considered these but put more weight on the trade guides valuations. 
This is because these are created from extensive nationwide research to establish 
what the likely selling prices of the similar car, on the date of loss, wouldve been. 
Adverts however are subject to negotiation, and vehicles are often sold at a lower 
price than advertised as a result.
Our investigator has detailed the prices provided by the trade guides previously. The 
results were £6,930, £6,479 and £6,203. Im satisfied Avivas settlement is in line with 
these valuations. Theres no obligation for Aviva to settle the claim on the highest 
valuation as Mr M has requested, nor do I think it would be reasonable to direct Aviva 
to pay this in the circumstances of this case. 
Mr M also complained he wasnt given a model of courtesy car that was similar to his 
own. The policy says A courtesy car is provided subject to availability to reduce your 
inconvenience and where possible ensure you remain mobile. It is not intended to be 
an exact replacement for your carA courtesy car is typically a small three door 
hatchback car with an engine size of 1 litre In this case Im satisfied Aviva met this 
obligation in providing Mr M with the courtesy car that it did.
Mr M has since provided our service with further documentation to support his 
opinion on the condition and fair valuation for his vehicle. Ive considered all of this 
carefully, but it hasnt changed my mind for the reasons Ive given above.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman