DRN-4086620
The complaint
Mr C has complained that his mobile phone insurance claim submitted under a Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) Tech Pack was declined.
The claim was declined as mobile phones with a screen over 7 inches in diameter are not 
covered by the Tech Pack. Mr C says that Barclays never made him aware of this limitation 
and says that if Barclays had drawn this limitation to his attention, he wouldve sought cover 
for his phone elsewhere.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Barclays had done 
what it was required to do in terms of notifying Mr C of the terms and conditions of the Tech 
Pack policy.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold the complaint.
Mr C says that he was never made aware that only phones with screens up to 7 in diameter 
were covered. Whereas Barclays says that it regularly sent information to Mr C about his 
Tech Pack  this included Annual Eligibility Statements (AESs) and Notice of Variation (NoV) 
documents.
Looking at the AESs that Barclays has included in its file on this case, I can see that on the 
page summarising the cover provided, it says:
Check your insurance cover with your Tech Pack
Read the following information carefully to check youre eligible for cover, and that you could 
claim if you needed to.
Where we refer to mobile device this will mean either a mobile phone or gadget.
Here's a full explanation as to what is classified as a mobile phone or gadget: A mobile phone 
is defined as a device which is designed to make and receive calls with a screen size of 7 
inches or less (measured diagonally). A gadget is defined as
Having looked at the AESs, I think that they made it reasonably clear that for a device to be 
classed as a mobile phone for the purposed of the Tech Pack cover, it could only have a 
screen up to 7 inches in diameter. 
I should point out that though, that how this is worded, is the responsibility of the insurer, not 
Barclays. Barclays is only responsible for communicating the policy terms and conditions 
(alongside sending other information, such as the AESs and NoVs). So, if Mr C is unhappy 
with how the terms and conditions of the policy are worded or interpreted for his claim, he 
will need to raise his concerns with the insurer. 
Nevertheless, Barclays has provided evidence to show that this wording was included in all 
of the AESs sent since 2019  specifically, AESs sent on 12 February 2019, 6 February 
2020, 17 February 2021, 21 January 2022 and 11 January 2023. So it is the case that the 
definition of mobile phone that affected Mr Cs claim has been in place for a number of years 
- since at least February 2019, and was still in place when Mr C reviewed the policy cover in 
2021 and realised his phone wasnt covered at the time as it exceed the £1,500 value limit. I 
can also see that it was made clear in the Tech Pack Insurance Product Information 
Document (known as IPID) that phones with a screen size above 7 inches in diameter were 
not covered by the Tech Pack.
Mr C says that he never received any of the documentation for his Tech Pack and says that 
as far as he is concerned, he had only ever opted for paperless statements  so expected 
them to have been posted to him. Mr C says the fact that he never received them is proof 
that Barclays is at fault in this matter. However, from the evidence Barclays has provided 
that does not look to be the case.
Barclays has provided a screen print of the communication preferences that Mr C has 
selected. That screen print shows that for letters, Mr C has requested that they be sent to 
him online. Whereas his preferences for statements show all but one account to also be 
sent online  with the one account mentioned being selected to receive postal statements. 
Barclays clarified that whilst Mr C has selected online communication, it may still send letters 
to Mr C on occasion, if there is a regulatory requirement that specific communication is done 
so by letter.
Barclays has explained that where online communication is selected, this means that instead 
of sending letters to Mr C, it will send him an email notifying him that there are letters (or 
statements) to view online. Mr C says that he regularly receives emails from Barclays. And 
the email address that Barclays has registered for Mr C is the same one that Mr C has 
provided our service. So, Im satisfied that Barclays was informing Mr C, as per his 
communication preference, each time an AES was ready to view. It seems to unfortunately 
be the case that Mr C may not have read the emails that Barclays was sending him  even 
though this was the communication preference he had selected. I think this ultimately 
explains why Mr C may not have seen the screen size limitation in the policy.
So taking everything into account, I think that Barclays did enough to have made it clear to 
Mr C that only phones with screens up to 7 inches in diameter would be covered by the Tech 
Pack cover.
As such, whilst I appreciate Mr Cs frustration that his claim was declined, especially having 
paid for the Tech Pack for a number of years, Im unable to say that Barclays is responsible 
for him being unaware of the limitations of cover on the Pack. It therefore follows, that I cant 
reasonably say that Barclays should pay the value of Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman