DRN-3879127
The complaint
Mrs D on behalf of Mr D has complained that Mr D wasnt adequately insured for his truck 
when he bought a motor insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited due to modifications 
she says they declared. 
As Mrs D made the calls with UKI and is representing Mr D in his complaint, Ill refer to Mrs 
D in my decision.
What happened
In July 2021 Mrs D changed a vehicle under Mr Ds motor insurance policy. 
At renewal in July 2022, Mrs D called to discuss the policy with UKI. Mrs D discovered that 
UKI wouldnt provide cover if it had known their truck had a bull bar, unless Mr D could show 
it was part of the truck when it was manufactured. Mrs D was very upset at discovering this 
and raised a complaint with UKI. She said she made it aware of the bull bar modification at 
renewal in 2021. 
UKI didnt uphold the complaint. It listened to the key calls and said Mrs D didnt tell it about 
the bull bar modification in 2021. It explained that it was for Mr D to declare any 
modifications - and as UKI had asked about modifications and the bull bar hadnt been 
declared, it hadnt done anything wrong. 
UKI cancelled Mr Ds policy due to non-payment of premium. It said Mr D owed a balance. 
Mrs D brought the complaint to us. She wanted UKI to provide a refund for the premium she 
paid from July 2021 and to write off the final payment Mr D owed. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that UKI had 
asked Mrs D in July 2021 to come back to it if there were any other modifications on the 
truck - and it had recorded modifications Mrs D had told it about under the policy. From the 
call, Mrs D hadnt mentioned that the truck had a bull bar. So UKI had correctly provided 
insurance based on the information provided. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She said they wouldnt have known if the trucks bull bar was a 
modification. Mrs D said she didnt ask for the whole years premium back, but wanted UKI 
to write off the last premium Mr D didnt pay under the policy as a bare minimum for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs D says she believes the policy was mis-sold to her 
in July 2021. 
Mrs D said UKI gave conflicting information: that Mr D was insured, but that he wasnt. Mrs D 
says UKI has caused upset and worry when they realised Mr D wouldnt have been insured 
in the event of a claim since July 2021 because of the bull bar modification. 
So as Mrs D didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
We have provided Mrs D with a copy of the call recordings and has called to say that on 
listening to the calls, she doesnt agree they reflect how the conversations went.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the key calls from July 2021, when Mrs D changed the vehicle, and at 
renewal in July 2022. 
Mrs D didnt tell UKI when she changed the vehicle in July 2021 that it had a bull bar. She 
declared other modifications. They hadnt yet collected the vehicle. Mrs D asked the agent 
why they have to declare modifications. The agent explained that if the vehicle is as it left the 
factory, thats fine - anything changed or after that is classed as a modification. The agent 
explained that the insurer may not pay out and may void the whole policy. So the agent said 
the best thing to do is declare them - sometimes it may not affect the premium. 
Mrs D told the agent about a lifted suspension and upgraded wheels. The agent asked if 
there were any other modifications. Mrs D said no. The agent said he would provide a 
quote - and he asked Mrs D to do checks on the modifications. 
The policy documents issued to Mr D said:
What changes do I need to tell you about? 
You must tell us if any of the following details change before you need cover to start: 
 you change your car;  you modify your car (please see general condition 8 for 
further details);
And it defined the term modifications as:
Modifications  any changes to your cars standard specification, including optional 
extras. These include, but are not restricted to, changes to the appearance and/or 
the performance of your car (including wheels, suspension, bodywork and engine) 
and include changes made to your car by the previous owner(s).
So I think UKI made it clear that it needed to know about any modifications to the truck in 
order to be able to confirm if it could provide cover. 
Insurers underwrite the risk a policyholder presents with their vehicle and history differently. 
This is why we see such a wide range of prices on comparison websites, even though it is 
for the same information that we as policyholders have given. 
An insurers underwriting criteria - what it is prepared to underwrite - is commercially 
sensitive and so cannot be shared. And an insurer cannot know what changes have been 
made to a customers vehicle beyond the manufacturers specification. So the responsibility 
for declaring any modifications falls on the policyholder. For these reasons, an insurer 
cannot tell a policyholder what modifications it will and will not cover until a policyholder 
declares them, and the insurer can then check its criteria. An insurer will then let a 
policyholder know if it will provide cover. This is why UKI set out under the policy that any 
changes needed to be alerted to them before Mr D needed cover to start. 
When Mrs D called in July 2022 to discuss the renewal of the policy, the agent asked if she 
had noticed anything else that needed changing. Mrs D discussed other changes, which the 
agent updated. Mrs D then said she had told UKI about modifications for the truck when she 
took out the policy - but wanted to double check in case of any issues. Mrs D said the truck 
has a bull bar on it. She said she didnt know if this was classed as anything. 
The agent asked for more information about the bull bar. He asked if it could be removed. 
He explained that if the bull bar can be removed, UKI wouldnt insure it. He said that he 
could renew the policy with the bull bar not being on there, so with the intention of it being 
removed. He said if there was to be an incident with the bull bar on the truck, then Mr D 
wouldnt be insured. Mrs D asked if this meant no cover at all. The agent clarified that going forward, UKI wouldnt 
be able to cover it. Given that its on there at the moment, the agent offered to put the 
renewal through, but with the intention of removing the bull bar. 
Mrs D said they wouldnt be removing the bull bar as it was on the truck when they bought it. 
The agent reiterated that UKI wouldnt be able to renew the policy. He explained that its 
underwriting criteria meant it wouldnt accept cover with the bull bar on the vehicle. 
Mrs D asked for a refund of the premium paid for the last year. She said it should have been 
explained to her last year. The agent agreed to review the call recording from July 2021. He 
explained that theres lots of things UKI doesnt cover. It asks what modifications a 
policyholder has on the vehicle and then UKI can make them aware at that time. 
I appreciate Mrs D believes she told UKI about the bull bar modification in July 2021. And 
she believes it is something in any event UKI should have alerted her to. But I dont agree for 
the reasons Ive given above. Based on the call recordings and the policy wording, I think 
UKI made it clear to Mrs D that she needed to let it know about any modifications and the 
potential consequences if any modifications werent declared. 
This means I dont think UKI is responsible for the distress caused by Mrs Ds decisions to 
temporarily remove the bull bar, cancel the Direct Debit, and obtain alternative insurance 
elsewhere. As the policy was cancelled due to non-payment of premium, UKI is entitled to 
ask Mr D to pay the balance in line with the policy terms. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D. But I dont think UKI has acted unreasonably. So Im not 
asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman