DRN-3286213
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim she made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system she says 
was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around June 2017, Mrs W was contacted by a representative of a company, which Ill 
call E, to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. After being visited by a representative of E, Mrs W decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In January 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that E had made a number of representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mrs W 
to enter into the contract with E. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
In order to mislead Mrs W she was told the total cost of the system was £8,355.00, 
when the actual cost of the system including loan interest is £11,028.55. 
She was told that the credit agreement would be "self-funded" by virtue of the Feed-
In Tariff ("FIT") payments generated by system and the system would not cost her a 
penny. 
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that E had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators assessment and Mrs W provided her 
comments. In summary she said:
She was told the system would save them money on energy bills and reduce carbon 
emissions  reducing her outgoings each month.
A loan would be the best option  as there would be no cash required upfront.
We would be able to cover the cost of the repayments easily, with assurances that 
our fuel bills would be considerably lower and outweigh the loan costs.
We were assured we would never be out of pocket.
We were advised the monthly saving and estimated return on the feed-in tariff would 
be as much as £492.61 for the first year. However, on another document the figures 
were lower, between £265.16 and £348.72.
There were a lot of facts and figures which do not tally and the documents provided 
were misleading. Initially we were advised we were to have 13 solar panels fitted but 
in the end they only fitted 12. 
The solar panels have added to her outgoings with a loan which is not being covered 
by the feed in tariff payments as we were promised.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs W could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by E in the same way she could have claimed 
against E, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs W and 
E, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by E as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the initial contract form for a 13-panel system, a later variation of contract form for a 
12-panel system and an estimated returns sheet. Ive considered these in detail and 
alongside what Mrs W, the CMC and Ikano have said.
The contract forms and estimated returns sheet set out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, and financial benefits. Im satisfied that they formed a central part 
of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there have been any 
untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Ws recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the systemThe CMC has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,355.00. But this figure 
was misleading because it did not include any interest associated with the loan which meant 
the true cost of the system was £11,028.55.
Im satisfied that the contract forms provided to Mrs W make it clear that the cost of the 
system is £8,355.00 (the most recent indicating it is for a 12-panel system). This is 
supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was 
£8,355.00. The total amount of credit is £8,355.00 and the total amount payable would be 
£11,028.55.
The credit agreement and the estimated returns sheet both make clear the monthly 
repayment is £91.91. Mrs Ws own testimony also confirms she was aware that she was 
taking out a loan with monthly repayments. So, Im satisfied that E made it clear that 
although the cost of the system was £8,355.00, it would cost Mrs W more than this as she 
had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
Self-funding
Mrs W has alleged that she was told she would not be out of pocket, and that the system 
would be self-funding. However, I think it is clear from the sales documents that she has 
provided that this was not the case. 
To be self-funding from the start, the benefits of the solar panels (the FIT payments plus the 
savings from using some of the electricity generated) would need to at least match the loan 
repayments of £91.91 per month, or £1,102.91 per year. So, Ive considered what the quotes 
and other information said about this. 
As Mrs W points out, the highest first year benefit she was quoted is shown as £492.61 on 
the estimated returns sheet. This is made up of FIT payments of £139.16 for electricity 
generated, and £84.54 from electricity exported to the grid. The remaining amount is from 
savings by using 50% of the electricity generated (instead of buying it from the grid) of 
£268.91, plus an extra £120.00 from changing all her light bulbs to LED bulbs.
The estimated returns sheet also has a comparison between the monthly loan repayment 
and the monthly benefit of the system. It says:
Monthly payment £91.91
Monthly benefit £51.05
Shortfall £40.85
I think this clearly shows that there would be a shortfall between the benefits of the system 
and the loan repayments during the first year. This is based on a seemingly generous 
estimate of the amount of electricity that would be generated and used by Mrs W (compared 
to the second contract form). But despite this, it does not indicate that the system would be 
self-funding. The two contract forms she received didnt compare the benefits and the cost. 
But they indicated the FIT payments and savings would be less than shown on the 
estimated returns sheet. So, none of the sales documents Mrs W were given showed the 
system would be self-funding  and one of those clearly showed it wouldnt be. 
Ive thought about what Mrs W has said about what she was told , but Im not persuaded that 
the system was sold as self-funding. At the time of sale, Mrs W was given documents that 
clearly showed that was not the case. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that E wouldve 
described the system as self-funding, whilst providing Mrs W with documents which clearly 
showed it was not. It is possible that E described the system as self-funding over its expected lifetime of 20 to 
25 years  due to projections of the FIT payments and the cost of electricity increasing due 
to inflation while the loan repayments were fixed. 
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between E and Mrs W. The contract form for a 12-panel system (which is what was 
installed) sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,729 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Ws FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,725 kWh. This almost exactly as estimated by E at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected and the estimated performance on the 
contract form was reasonable.
Ive also looked at the income generated by the system through FIT payments. The quote 
estimated an income of £181,.61 in the first year. Between 28 June 2017, the date of the 
opening reading on her FIT payments account, and 9 August 2019, Mrs W received £334.81 
 an average of about £158 per year. This is slightly less than estimated but matches up with 
the fact that in the first year the solar panels didnt generate as much electricity as expected. 
This was likely due to variations in the weather. 
Overall, I think the solar panels have performed broadly in line with the estimates provided at 
the time of sale. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, on 
balance Ive concluded that there were unlikely to have been any untrue statements of fact 
made by E that induced Mrs W to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no 
other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman