DRN-2942190
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc withdrew his overdraft facility without notice, and 
then refused to keep its promise to reinstate it.
What happened
In 2017 Mr A opened a current account with HSBC. In November 2018 this was converted 
into a graduate account. Mr A says that in September 2020 he made a phone call to HSBC 
to ask for an overdraft facility, and that HSBC gave him one with a limit of £1,000, with effect 
from the next day. Relying on what he says he was told, Mr A spent his money until by 
November his account was overdrawn by over £500. But HSBC has no record of that call, 
and it denies that Mr As account ever had an overdraft facility.
Meanwhile, in October that year, Mr As graduate account was automatically converted back 
into an ordinary current account, because it was limited to a term of two years. Shortly 
afterwards, Mr A discovered that he did not have an overdraft facility, and he attributed that 
to the change in status of his account. Since he was still a student, he asked for his account 
to be converted back, and for his overdraft to be reinstated. In November he supplied 
evidence from his university to show that he was still a student, and in December his current 
account became a student account. Mr A complained that this had taken too long, and that 
he had made ten branch visits and 20 phone calls trying to get this resolved. HSBC 
apologised and paid him £25 because he had been told it could take up to 14 days, when he 
should have been told 14 working days.
However, Mr A still did not have an overdraft, because he did not pass HSBCs affordability 
checks. He complained that HSBC should have reinstated his overdraft. He also said that he 
had been told four times, in four different calls, that his overdraft would be added the next 
day.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She accepted HSBCs evidence that Mr A had never 
had an overdraft. She also accepted that HSBC had no record of the phone call in 
September 2020, in which Mr A claimed to have been offered one. Nevertheless, she 
thought that the phone call had indeed been made, but that Mr A had misunderstood what 
he had been told on the call. She thought it was likely that Mr A had been told that he was 
eligible to apply for an overdraft, and that he had thought he had actually been given one. 
She based this conclusion on the fact that Mr As unauthorised overdraft in October and 
November was the largest overdraft balance hed ever had on the account, and this 
suggested to her that he had honestly believed he had a new overdraft limit. She also 
accepted that HSBC had told Mr A four times that his overdraft would be added to his 
account the next day, and that HSBC had taken a month to tell him that he had never had an 
overdraft.
The investigator accepted that HSBC was entitled to refuse Mr As overdraft application. But 
she thought that HSBC should have communicated with Mr A better, about the overdraft and 
also about converting his graduate account into a normal current account. She said HSBC 
should have written to Mr A to warn him that was about to happen. She recommended that 
HSBC pay Mr A £150 compensation.
Neither party was satisfied with that opinion. Mr A insisted that he had had an overdraft 
facility with a limit of £1,000, and he said he would not be satisfied with anything less than 
having it reinstated immediately. HSBC did not agree that there was a reasonable evidential 
basis for the investigators conclusion that Mr A had spoken to the bank on the phone in 
September 2020, and it provided its contact records to demonstrate that it had had no 
contact with him during the whole of that month. It asked whether Mr A had his own record of 
that call, and he did not.
The investigator referred this complaint for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote a provisional 
decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I am not minded to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, it is quite clear that there was no overdraft facility on the account before September 
2020. Not only are the banks records quite clear about that, but I think it was made clear to 
Mr A too, since HSBC sent him letters about returned direct debit payments which would 
have taken his account into unauthorised overdrafts. Those letters were sent in January, 
May and November 2019, and they clearly state at the top, in bold type, that the arranged 
overdraft limit is nil.
(Mr A has provided an email from May 2019 about overdraft interest, which I admit is 
ambiguous when taken on its own, and I can see how that could have been confusing. But 
read together with the three letters, once of which was sent in the same month as the email, 
it is impossible to conclude that this email really meant that he had an agreed overdraft. 
Even if he did think that at the time, he must have been disabused of that notion by the letter 
sent in November 2019.)
Perhaps Mr A had forgotten that he didnt have an overdraft by September 2020, as that was 
ten months later. But that is hardly HSBCs fault. (However, I think his monthly statements or 
his online banking would also have made the position clear.)
It is equally clear that Mr A was not given an authorised overdraft facility in September 2020. 
Nor did he have one in October before his account ceased to be a graduate account. He 
was allowed to run up an unauthorised overdraft balance in October, but that was not for the 
first time. He had had unauthorised overdraft balances before, in June 2019 and in 
September of that year too, as well as in earlier years. So I do not regard his expenditure in 
October and November 2020 as particularly significant evidence.
Neither HSBC nor Mr A have any record of any phone call made by either of them to the 
other in the entire month of September 2020. The fact that Mr A ran up his largest overdraft 
in October and November of that year does not strike me as being sufficient reason to infer 
that such a phone call was made anyway, and just not logged for some reason. I dont 
accept that it happened. But even if I took a different view about that, and I adopted the 
investigators finding that such a call was made  a call in which the bank still did not agree 
to give Mr A an overdraft facility, but he just misunderstood what he had been told  then 
without any record of what was said in the call, I could not reasonably conclude that the 
misunderstanding must have been HSBCs fault.
There is no record of any subsequent call in which Mr A was told that he had an overdraft.For the above reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr A ever had an agreed overdraft, or that 
he was ever told he had one, or that he was given any reason to think that he did.
The account terms and conditions say (on page 40) that a graduate account lasts for a 
maximum term of two years. So the account was bound to convert back to a current account 
in late 2020. It might have been helpful to remind Mr A of that, but I cannot agree that HSBC 
was under a duty to remind him, and so I cannot conclude that the bank fell into error by 
failing to remind him.
The changing status of the account did not affect Mr As overdraft, since he didnt have one. 
Nor did the further change, from a current account to a student account, mean that he was 
entitled to an overdraft. His application for an overdraft in December would always have had 
to be subject to affordability checks, whatever kind of account it was, and HSBC was entitled 
to decline his application.
I realise that that conclusion will come as a disappointment to Mr A. But I will not order 
HSBC to give him an overdraft if it doesnt want to. HSBC is entitled to make its own choice 
about that.
Finally, as I have said already, HSBC apologised for telling Mr A that his account would be 
converted to a student account in 14 days, when it should have told him 14 working days. It 
paid him £25 for that error, and I currently think that is fair. (I dont think it was necessary for 
him to visit his branch ten times during that period, or to call 20 times, so I dont think it is 
necessary to pay him more compensation for that.)
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC had nothing to add. Mr A did not respond by the deadline. So there is no reason for 
me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021. But if we do not hear from him then we will 
presume that he rejects it. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman