DRN-3121990
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs H took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs Hs policy 
covered them between 12 November 2019 and 11 November 2020. The policy included 
optional cruise plus cover. In total, the policy cost Mr and Mrs H £534.61, which included a 
discount of £60.35. The premium included cover for Mr and Mrs Hs medical conditions. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs H got in touch with the broker in June 
2020 to ask whether they could cancel the policy and get a cash refund of their premium.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs H a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered them the following 
options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 
months;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy.
The total value of the credit voucher Mr and Mrs H were offered was £170.48, which 
included a pro-rata refund of the optional cruise plus cover.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Great Lakes later told us that it had withdrawn its previous annual multi trip voucher options. 
It said Mr and Mrs Hs credit voucher would now be valid for 36 months; could be put 
towards either a single trip or an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy and could be 
transferred.
Our adjudicator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the policy started on 12 November 2019 and the policy covered various risks during that 
time. 
The adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs H a credit voucher, which took into account the 
unused cover remaining on the policy, including a pro-rata refund for the cruise plus cover. 
But she didnt think itd calculated the offer fairly, so she asked Great Lakes to recalculate 
the offer by using the actual price Mr and Mrs H paid for their policy, divided by the total 
length of the policy and multiplied by the days that werent used. She didnt think the terms of 
the voucher were overly restrictive though. Overall, she didnt think Great Lakes needed to 
pay Mr and Mrs H a cash refund of their premium.
Great Lakes recalculated its offer and told us that the new available credit voucher amount 
was £207.42.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the new offer. They said they wouldnt be travelling abroad 
again, so the voucher was of no use to them. And they said the policy terms didnt state that 
there were no cash refunds.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I think Great Lakes current offer 
is fair. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
a refund of premium.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Hs cooling-off period ended on 13 October 2019. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 23 June 2020. So the cancellation was significantly 
outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great 
Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic to be exceptional 
circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are 
individual to the policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. 
This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs contract with 
Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of premiums.  But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint (as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great 
Lakes offer of a credit voucher for the unused portion of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, 
including the optional cruise plus cover, is fair and reasonable. And given the policy 
wasnt cancelled until 23 June 2020, I think its fair that the date of the cancellation of 
the policy is used to calculate the refund on the facts of this case 
 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for the core policy for a 366-day if the policy 
hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 142 days of 
cover, after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk 
of Mr and Mrs H making a claim after that point. 
Great Lakes has now agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price 
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk. 
Im satisfied that this now leads to a fair outcome.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because while Mr and Mrs H have indicated they dont intend to 
travel abroad again, the voucher can be put towards any policy  either annual or 
single trip. And it can be transferred to a third party. So while I understand that Mr 
and Mrs H would prefer a cash refund of their premium, I dont think that the terms of 
the voucher are overly restrictive. 
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums and Im 
satisfied its current offer of a pro-rata credit voucher is fair.
     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the refund due to Mr and Mrs H (to be paid by 
way of a credit voucher) by dividing the actual price they paid for their annual travel 
insurance policy, including the cruise plus cover, by the total cover length (in days) multiplied 
by days not on risk.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman