DRN-3566637
The complaint
Mr T (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) provided him with a credit facility he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr T approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in November 2016. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to his credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into his bank account once the account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing. Mr T was not advanced a payday loan.
Mr T was initially given a facility with a £200 limit on 26 November 2016. His limit was
increased on a further five occasions with the final increase taking Mr Ts credit limit to £460
in July 2017.
Mr T has had some problems repaying the facility and SNC has told the 
Financial Ombudsman that as of January 2022 an outstanding balance remains due of 
£306.60.
An adjudicator looked at Mr Ts complaint and he thought SNC had made a reasonable 
decision to initially approve the facility for Mr T. But he didnt think SNC ought to
have allowed Mr T to drawdown on the facility after 5 August 2017.
In the adjudicators view, Mr T was now having problems managing his money because he
had recently set up to pay a third-party collection agency.
Mr Ts representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further
comments were provided.
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it said:
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Mr T to allow his representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued.
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP).
Although Mr Ts representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it too.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has his privacy 
and data protection in mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns. He explained SNC had been given more
than eight weeks to investigate Mr Ts complaint following the representatives complaint and
from when we informed SNC that the complaint would be taken on and progressed.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I then issued a provisional decision firstly explaining that there wasnt any jurisdiction reason 
why the Financial Ombudsman couldnt consider the complaint. I also intended to partly 
uphold Mr Ts complaint but for a slightly different reason than the adjudicator. 
A copy of my provisional findings follow this in italics and form part of this final decision. 
However, before my provisional decision, Ive again outlined below why this complaint can 
be considered. 
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
Ive thought careful about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint.
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Mr T
complained through his representative to SNC in January 2021 (Ive seen nothing to
persuade me Mr T hadnt correctly authorised his representative).
The complaint was referred here on 10 June 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then
wrote to SNC on 14 June 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. It is
now nearly a year later and over a year since the complaint was originally made, but the firm
nonetheless disputes that it has had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is clearly
wrong in my opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of
Mr Ts complaint.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the facility was provided.
To start with, Mr T wasnt given a payday loan. Instead he was provided with a credit facility
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time.
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr T this facility when it
was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules in
place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of theFCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mr T had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to his
bank statements, to allow SNC to monitor Mr Ts finances and to allow it to carry out
additional affordability assessments.
Finally, Mr Ts expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid.
Therefore, when Mr Ts facility was approved for £200 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr T
would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 per month, by carrying out a
proportionate check.
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Ts income and expenditure because it had
read only access to his bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted.
It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Ts income and expenditure was, after
completing these checks, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr T could afford the minimum
repayment towards the facility.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ts complaint from August 2017, meaning he thought it was
reasonable for the facility to have been approved. Neither Mr Ts representative nor SNC
disagree with this. I therefore no longer think this is in dispute. But for the avoidance of
doubt, based on what SNC saw before granting the facility it was reasonable of it to 
conclude that Mr T would be able to repay the facility over a reasonable period of time.
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I have gone on to
think about whether there was a point in the lending relationship that showed SNC, Mr T was
likely having difficulties repaying the facility.
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in
CONC and how it applies to this case.
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course,
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive.
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr Ts use of the facility and then
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Mr Ts actual financial position, becausethroughout the time of him having the facility it had read-only access to his bank account so
it had a good idea of her income and outgoings.
Instead, Im focussing on whether by August 2017 it was reasonable for SNC to have taken
action to have stopped Mr Ts use of the facility  which is the point the adjudicator upheld
from.
As I explained above, he said there was indications that Mr Ts financial position was
worsening because he recently started to make new payments to a new third party debt
collection company. But I dont think this, on its own is sufficient to say that Mr T was having
or likely having financial difficulties.
Mr T was already making weekly repayments to two third party debt collection agents 
totalling nearly £20 a week. However, in July two further payments totalling an additional £10
per week are started to be paid to another, third debt management company. Which as the
adjudicator pointed out most likely related to historic debts that Mr T was in a position to now
start making repayments for.
Overall, Mr T was repaying around £30 a week towards at least 4 separate credit accounts
that defaulted and were sold to a third-party collection agency. This is a sign that Mr T may
have been having financial difficulties. But it would also be reasonable to conclude it was a 
sign that Mr T was trying to repay older debt because he was now in a position to do so. I 
dont think the debt repayments along, are sufficient to uphold the complaint.
However, having reviewed the bank transaction data there is in my view, enough other
concerning information to led me to conclude Mr Ts complaint should be upheld.
Its clear from the bank transaction data that the only source of income for Mr T is from his
job where he received a weekly salary of between £350 and £400. The exact amount of
salary does go up and down week on week but seems to be between these two amounts.
Ive kept this in mind when thinking what I can see in the bank statements.
In addition to this there are a number of direct debits and standing orders set up on Mr Ts
account  the monthly repayment towards these along comes to around £315. However, that
clearly isnt all of Mr Ts living costs.
Mr T did have regular payments for petrol and food and also Mr T withdrew significant
amounts of money each month. In July 2017 for example he had withdrawn £1,100. This
wasnt a one off, indeed, the largest expenditure each month was on cash withdrawals. From
the bank transaction data I can also see that, in June 2017 he withdrew £1,600 and £1,100
in May 2017.
So, there was a pattern that Mr T would, regularly withdraw at least £1,100 per month. It isnt
clear what Mr T was using the cash on, but given how regular these withdrawals were, and
were apparent in each month since the facility had been approved I do think SNC had to
consider very carefully whether further allowing Mr T to draw down on the facility was
reasonable.
I therefore think it was reasonable for SNC to have taken these cash withdrawals into
account because, it is likely, given the pattern of the withdrawals to date that Mr T wouldve 
moving forward continued to take out, each month significant amounts of cash.
On top of the above, there are two other factors that I think needed to be considered. Firstly,
at least once a month since January 2017, Mr T was having problems making his regular
contractual repayments to other creditors because hed be charged an unpaid transactionfee. Meaning his bank had charged him a fee to process a payment because he didnt have
sufficient funds in which to fund it.
Given the content of CONC 1.3 I think this is another clear sign that Mr T was having
problems managing his finances and by July, given it was shortly after the credit limit had
been increased again I think SNC really needed to consider whether allowing Mr T to
continue to use the facility was in the best interest of Mr T.
Secondly, Mr T was clearly, by this point in time using the SNC facility to supplement his
living costs. As Ive said apart from the credits from SNC the other source of income was his
weekly salary and as Ive outlined above, with the cash withdrawals, direct debits and
standings orders this was already around the total of Mr Ts monthly income.
But, in July Mr T repaid SNC nearly £1,700 which was more than his monthly income before
taking into account the living costs that we know Mr T had. The amount repaid to SNC was
above what Mr T typically repaid SNC throughout the course of the year. But he would
typically repay around £1,000 each month  which is still a significant sum when considering
the cash withdrawals as well as the other living costs that I said, SNC wouldve seen.
So, when SNC further allowed Mr T to drawdown on the facility, he had demonstrated that 
he wasnt using the facility as SNC had intended, he was quickly borrowing down and 
repaying the facility in the same month, and therefore was in effect taking multiple payday 
loans because he wasnt benefiting from or making use of the interest free period of time.
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Mr T circumstances
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 5 August 2017 it was
clear that the facility had become unsustainable and unaffordable.
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively
intervened and contacted Mr T to arrange for him to repay what he owed within a reasonable
period of time. Ive outlined below what Im intending to ask SNC to do in order to put things
right for Mr T.
Im therefore intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint from the same point as the adjudicator but
for slightly different reasons.
Response to the provisional decision 
Mr T (and / or his representative) and SNC were asked to respond to the provisional 
decision as soon as possible, but no later than 29 June 2022. 
SNC didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Mr Ts representative initially acknowledged the provisional decision before later confirming 
he was happy with the proposed outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr T nor SNC have provided any new evidence or comments for me to consider. I 
therefore see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision.So, I still think it was reasonable, for SNC to have initially approved the facility. However, by 
5 August 2017 there were signs in the way that the facility was being used as well as what 
SNC could see in the transaction data that ought to have led SNC to have stopped Mr T 
from using the facility. 
Ive outlined below what SNC needs to do in order to put things right for Mr T.
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A. Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from 5 August 2017.
B. Treat all payments Mr T has made towards the account since 5 August 2017 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C. If at any point Mr T wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D. If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr T.
E. SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ts credit file 
about this facility from 5 August 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ts 
complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr T as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman