DRN-4108083
The complaint
Miss A has a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society (NBS); (1) she was 
given incorrect information regarding the Early Repayment Charge (ERC), (2) a mortgage 
payment of £185.36 was taken from her account in August 2022 without any prior 
explanation, (3) there was a delay with the mortgage application process, (4) there was a 
delay in dealing with her complaint, (5) NBS caused her to take out the wrong product based 
on the ERC refund being incorrectly quoted, and (6) was wrongly charged an administration 
fee of £65.
What happened
Miss A redeemed her mortgage with NBS in January 2022, paid the ERC of £2,703.76 and 
later took out a further loan with NBS albeit at a lesser amount. On 16 May 2022, she 
discussed non-simultaneous porting of her mortgage with NBS mortgage advisor (MA), who 
told her she would receive a partial ERC refund, confirming on 30 May that it would be 
approximately £1,863. The MA also said he would submit a mortgage application for her but 
there was a delay in doing so and it was not submitted until the 14 June. NBS have accepted 
that this was an unacceptable delay.
A valuation on Miss As new property took place on 24 June and a mortgage offer issued on 
1 July. That day she was also advised that the ERC refund would be £2,703.76 but following 
completion, on 22 July, she received £2,112.72 and was charged an administration fee of 
£65.
NBS said the ERC Miss A paid in January was the full ERC calculated on the balance of her 
mortgage at that time. When Miss A commenced her new mortgage with a lower balance 
NBS were able to refund part of the ERC she had originally paid. NBS accepted Miss A had 
been given incorrect information about the ERC refund on 1 July, which had been caused by 
using the incorrect loan balance. But they also pointed out she had been told by the MA on 
16 May that she would only receive a partial refund, which she did.
Miss A raised her concerns with NBS on 28 June and was told a complaint would be raised, 
but it wasnt. NBS have also accepted that once the complaint was logged there was a delay 
in responding to Miss A
In August, £185.36 was taken from Miss As account which NBS have explained was her 
August mortgage payment of £155.77, plus some further residual interest of £29.59 
calculated from when the mortgage funds had been released on 22 July to the end of July. 
NBS explained that although Miss A had requested her payments be taken on the first of the 
month, because the August payment was the first and it took 10 working days between 
requesting the payment and receiving the funds, that was why it had been taken part way 
through August.
In light of the poor level of service NBS credited to Miss As account compensation of 
£250.00. Miss A was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there 
had been poor service, the amount of compensation NBS paid was enough to put things 
right. Miss A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive taken account 
of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available 
evidence. 
(1) The Early Repayment Charge 
NBS correctly told Miss A that she would only receive a partial refund of the ERC she paid 
because she was taking out a reduced mortgage. NBS then incorrectly told her, in writing, 
that it would be the full ERC amount. I understand Miss A would be disappointed to then 
later learn that this had been an error, but I am satisfied that she would have understood that 
in taking out a reduced mortgage that not all the ERC could be refunded. I dont think it 
would be fair to make NBS pay Miss A the difference between what she actually received by 
way of refund to what she expected to receive. That would give her a windfall. But I do think 
it is right that NBS should pay some compensation for this error. 
(2) The August payment of £185.36 
With regard to the payment taken by NBS part way through August, it is clear that this was 
Miss As first mortgage payment due on 1 August. However, because it was the first 
payment there was insufficient time from release of the funds on 22 July, to ensure it would 
taken from her account on the 1 August. NBS also wrote to Miss A on 25 July telling her that 
the first payment of £185.36 would be taken on 5 August 2022. So, I dont think NBS have 
done anything wrong here.
(3) Delay in making the application 
NBS have accepted that their MA failed to submit Miss As mortgage in a timely manner, it 
not being submitted until 14 June. NBS have accepted that this was unacceptable.
(4) Delay in responding to the complaint.
Miss A was told that her complaint would be registered on 28 June, and she didnt receive 
the final response letter from NBS until 25 November which is considerably outside the 8 
weeks NBS have to respond. I know our investigators view was that complaint handling is 
not something we can consider as it is a non-regulated activity, but we can consider 
complaints that are ancillary to a regulated or other covered activity. So, whilst as a general 
rule if a complaint is solely about complaint handling we wouldnt be able to look into it, here 
because the complaint Miss A brings is ancillary to her other complaints I think we can. And 
it is clear that there was poor service in dealing with her complaint.
(5) Wrong Product
When Miss A ported her mortgage product to her new property, she chose a fixed interest 
rate of 2.04% until 31 October 2025. Her preference was for a fixed rate and refund of the 
ERC, and NBS have confirmed that at that time there were no lower fixed rates available 
either with or without a fee. I am satisfied that Miss A therefore secured the correct product and NBS error in quoting the wrong refund figure has not had an effect on her decision to 
choose a product.
(6) Administration fee
The mortgage offer set out that there was to be a £65 administration fee to be paid and so I 
am satisfied Miss A was on notice of that being a charge she would have to pay. I cant say 
NBS have done anything wrong in charging it.
Miss A is unhappy with the level of compensation paid. When this service considers what an 
appropriate level of compensation might be, we consider a variety of factors, including the 
distress and inconvenience that may have been caused and we try to place customers back 
into the position they would otherwise have been in. We categorise awards and examples of 
these can be found on our website. In my view, any award for the trouble and upset caused 
here also needs to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of life which we 
all face when dealing with other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that 
at times it can be inconvenient. 
NBS has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Miss A 
with £250. As Miss A didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some 
further thought, and I think what NBS paid is fair and reasonable. The amount paid by NBS 
reflected the errors Ive set out above in numbered paragraphs 1, 3 and 4. As these were the 
only areas where I think NBS provided poor service, I dont think NBS needs to do anything 
more. The amount paid is fair and reasonable and in line with our guidelines.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman