DRN-2847015
The complaint
Mr G says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says the 
loans added to his financial problems and he was using one short term loan to pay another. 
He thinks that Mr Lender shouldve found out about this and not lent to him. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr G between 
February 2015 and January 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate ended
1 23/02/2015 £500 6 14/08/2015
2 19/08/2015 £400 6 28/01/2016
3 28/01/2016 £750 6 15/07/2016
4 25/07/2016 £700 6 13/01/2017
5 16/01/2017 £650 6 14/07/2017
6 14/07/2017 £800 6 15/01/2018
7 16/01/2018 £1,500 12 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
loans 1 and 2. But she thought that by loan 3, a proportionate check wouldve shown 
Mr Lender that Mr G was having problems managing his money. And from loan 4 onwards 
the lending pattern itself was harmful. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
it wasnt unreasonable for it to rely on the checks it did for loan 3, these showed the 
loan was affordable and 
going forward it continued to make sure the loan repayments were affordable. Its 
checks showed that Mr G only had one outstanding other short-term loan. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mr G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr G had with 
Mr Lender. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
he took.
Loan 3 was Mr Gs third instalment loan. Hed been making repayments to Mr Lender for just 
under a year now and he was committing to make repayments for a further six months. I 
think this a sign of a continued and ongoing need.    
So, I think Mr Lender couldve realised at that time that Mr G may have some longer-term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Mr Lender shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Mr Gs true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Gs financial situation. And I think 
that it needed to verify the information it found out where possible in order to make sure Mr 
G was in position to make the repayments sustainably. I dont think Mr Lender did this. It 
largely relied on what Mr G told it and the information it received from the credit reference 
agencies. As our adjudicator said, a proportionate check wouldve likely shown Mr Lender that Mr G 
was borrowing and repaying significant amounts to other short-term lenders. And he had 
been doing this for some time. The total repayments he was due to make in the near future 
look to be not far short of £1,000.  And so, they were almost a two thirds of Mr Gs recorded 
income of £1,500. 
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Mr Lender wouldve seen Mr G wouldnt have been able repay loan 3 in 
a sustainable way. I think that Mr Lender shouldnt have given loan 3 to Mr G and I think hes 
lost out as a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about this loan.
I also havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 to 7 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders 
lending history with Mr G, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Gs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr G was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr G had been indebted to Mr Lender for around 16 months. This 
is a long time to be using high cost credit.
Mr Gs first loan was for £500 and loan 4 was for £700.  At this point Mr Lender ought 
to have known that Mr G was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need. 
All of these factors lead me think that Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Mr G was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Gs indebtedness was 
unsustainable.
Going forwards Mr G didnt make any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. 
Loan 7 was taken out around three years after Mr Gs first. And it was for a much 
larger amount and was to be repaid over a longer term. Mr G had paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think that Mr G lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr G borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 7 and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr G from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr G loans 3 to 7.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debts Mr Lender should buy these back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then 
Mr Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr G having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G. Mr Lender 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mr Lender has already written-
off.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to loan 3. The overall pattern of Mr Gs borrowing for loans 4 to 7 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Gs credit file. Mr Lender does not have to remove loan 7 until it has been repaid, but 
Mr Lender should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Gs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman