DRN-3493835
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse her for the money she lost when 
she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) safe account scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and Im mindful that 
it is difficult for Mrs E to have to recollect all of the details of what she has been through. Our 
Investigator has captured the events in detail in her view, so I have only covered the key 
points here.
In early 2021, Mrs E made a connection through a well-known social media platforms dating 
application to a person Ill refer to as B, but unknown to her at the time B was a fraudster.
They exchanged messages and photos and B told Mrs E that he was an engineer and had 
secured a contract to build a gas and petroleum station in Eastern Europe. B gave Mrs E a 
detailed description of what the work entailed, which Mrs E has said she could relate to 
through her work which had given her experience of how overseas contracts worked.
A couple of weeks after first connecting, Mrs E had her first phone conversation with B. He 
told Mrs E that he was due to travel to Eastern Europe the following day and subsequently 
sent Mrs E a picture of himself on the plane. A few days later, he contacted Mrs E and told 
her that he was having trouble with the contract that he was working on. He said that due to 
changes in the law, upfront tax had to be paid for contractors and without the tax being paid 
he wouldnt be allowed to carry on with the works. B told Mrs E hed be able to pay the tax 
(£30,000) but it would mean he would be left with no money for food or accommodation, so 
he asked Mrs E if she would be able to lend him some money.
Mrs E has said she was horrified B had asked her for money. Shes said she told him she 
was shocked, that she didnt know him and asked if he was a scammer. Mrs E said she 
wasnt comfortable, as this was a stranger but that, on the other hand, everything he had told 
her added up. Shes said B wasnt pushing her or being aggressive, but told her he could 
lose everything. Mrs E has said, although she wasnt happy, she eventually agreed to make 
an international payment for £250 on 22 January 2021. B provided Mrs E with the details of 
the account she should make the payment to, which he told her was his interpreters account 
in Eastern Europe.
Over the course of the coming days and weeks Bs stories escalated, as did his requests for 
financial assistance. This included telling Mrs E that the local tax office had rejected an offer 
hed made and they had demanded a further £27,500. B told Mrs E that everything was tied 
up in this contract. Mrs E spoke to her family and they agreed that they thought B was 
genuine and so, on 24 January 2021, Mrs E made a payment for £7,500. The payment was 
picked up by Santanders fraud detection systems and Mrs E had to call to confirm the 
payment was being made by her. Following a conversation with Santander, the payment 
was allowed to go ahead, again being made to who Mrs E thought was Bs interpreter.
Mrs E has said B then told her that his interpreter had taken him to a gangster, to borrow the 
remaining £20,000, that was needed to pay the tax office. However, two days later, B told    
Mrs E that the tax office had demanded more money to enable him to resume the works. He 
told her theyd sent him a letter and receipt for the £57,000 hed already paid (which Mrs E 
says she saw), but that a further £103,000 was needed to allow him to resume the work. He 
told Mrs E that hed be able to raise £70,000 (through cashing in his pension, selling his car 
and borrowing from friends), but pleaded with Mrs E to see if she could pay £30,000.
Mrs E has said she initially said no, but that she thought B was working hard to raise the 
funds so she agreed to help. On 4 February 2021, Mrs E made a further payment, to Bs 
interpreter, for £22,900  which shed raised through a loan, a credit card and her savings. 
Santanders fraud detection systems picked up this payment, but the payment was allowed 
to progress after Santander had spoken to Mrs E. B told her hed returned to the gangster for 
the remaining money hed needed to raise.
A few days later, Mrs E received a video showing the works had resumed. B told her that he 
had booked a flight back to the UK and sent her the booking confirmation. But shortly after, 
B contacted Mrs E again. He explained, that where the works had paused and the 
machinery had been sitting there not being used, some repairs were needed, which would 
cost £12,000. Again, Mrs E agreed to help and, funded by money shed moved into her 
Santander account from a credit card, made a further payment of £12,000 on 4 February 
2021, again to the interpreters account.
Mrs E has said B told her the £12,000 hadnt arrived and because of this, on 9 February 
2021, she made a further payment of £11,975 (Mrs E has said she raised the funds for this 
through a credit card). But again she was told by B this payment hadnt arrived, so over the 
course of the next couple of weeks Mrs E raised the matter with Santander and chased for 
updates to find out where the payments were. On 25 February 2021, Santander explained to 
Mrs E that the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the money was sent) were not accepting 
the payments and would be returning them to Mrs E, as they had concerns over the 
entitlement to the funds.
In the meantime, on 19 February 2021, B asked for further financial help from Mrs E, this 
time to fund additional workers that were needed due to the project falling behind. Funded by 
transferring further money in from a credit card, Mrs E went ahead and made a payment for 
£4,475.
On the eve of B returning to the UK, he contacted Mrs E. He told her the gangsters hed 
borrowed money off had kidnapped him, demanding repayment of the money he had 
borrowed and were threatening to kill him. He told her theyd allowed him to keep his phone, 
so that he could try and raise the money. B also sent Mrs E photos of himself, in what he told 
her was a cellar. Mrs E has said she thought he was going to be killed, so was desperate to 
find the money to pay.
Mrs E has told us that she drove to the address of where B said he lived, to go and see Bs 
daughter. But on arrival Mrs E was told that Bs daughter didnt live there. When Mrs E 
questioned that with B, he said they were worried the gangsters would get to his daughter, 
so they were being cautious at the address. And Mrs E later received a text, from who she 
thought was Bs daughter, apologising and explaining they were taking extra precautions. 
B, and his daughter, begged Mrs E to help. Having raised a further £30,000, through a loan 
and a further money transfer from a credit card, to pay the gangster, on 2 March 2021, Mrs E 
attempted to make a payment for £30,000, but Santander stopped the payment. Mrs E was 
provided with different bank details to make the payment to, with B explaining the account 
belonged to his interpreters wife.Santander spoke to Mrs E about the payment and had concerns. Mrs E acknowledges that 
she lied to Santander about the payment being for Bs work. Santander questioned Mrs E on 
why she was having to pay this money, rather than it coming from Bs business. Alongside 
this it asked Mrs E about her relationship with B. Not satisfied with what it had heard, it told 
Mrs E that, based on what it sees on a daily basis, it was 100% sure this was a scam. It said 
it could see Mrs E had borrowed thousands of pounds and she was being encouraged to 
finance something that Bs business should fund themselves.
It added that the fact two previous payments had been returned by the beneficiary banks 
was a concern to it, explaining this suggested some serious security issues, and this usually 
happens because somebody has reported a fraud. Santander put it to Mrs E that they were 
hesitant to even think Mrs E had met B and that shed probably met him online. In view of its 
concerns Santander refused to allow the payment for £30,000 to be processed.
Mrs E told Santander that she accepted what it was saying and that there was nothing she 
could do to persuade it. She told Santander she could guarantee it was legitimate and that 
she was engaged to B, but she understood Santander dealt with this every day. Mrs E asked 
Santander if she could have access to her account, so that she could move the money to an 
account she held with another provider, to enable her to then pay off the loans shed taken 
out. She added that shed speak to her partner to see if he could get the money from 
elsewhere or negotiate with the guys on site.
Santander raised concerns with Mrs E, it told her it thought shed go and speak to B and 
theyd convince her there were no issues and that shed believe them. It told Mrs E it was 
worried she was being taken advantage of. Mrs E assured Santander she was not being 
taken advantage of and that she needed access to her money. She told Santander that she 
was not going to make the payment to B, because what shed rather do was pay off the 
loans.
Santander agreed to release the blocks it had applied to Mrs Es account, meaning Mrs E 
was able to transfer the £30,000 to an account she held with another provider, as she had 
told the bank she would. But because of the concerns it still had, Santander invoked the 
Banking Protocol and called the Police, who visited Mrs E at her home on 5 March 2021. 
Mrs E has said the Police told her the bank had sent them, as they had concerns she was 
the victim of a romance fraud. Mrs E has said she was ashamed to say she lied to the 
Police, and told them she was absolutely fine and they didnt have to worry. She added that 
she gave the Police Bs full name, address and date of birth. Mrs E has said she just wanted 
to get rid of the Police as all she could think about doing, was getting the money sent.
Following this the scam developed further, resulting in Mrs E sending more money to 
accounts the fraudsters controlled. But as the future payments she went on to make were 
made from an account Mrs E held with another provider, I will not comment on the further 
developments here. Other than to say, the scam came to light in April 2021 when Mrs E 
returned to Bs house again and was told his daughter didnt live there. Suspecting shed 
been scammed Mrs E contacted the Police who came to see her. During their visit the Police 
heard Mrs E talking to B and the scam was uncovered.
In total, Mrs E lost £35,125 from her Santander account. A breakdown of the payments    
Mrs E made/attempted to make from her Santander account are listed below;
22 January 2021 £250
25 January 2021 £7,500
4 February 2021 £22,900
4 February 2021 £12,000 (returned to Mrs E by beneficiary bank)
9 February 2021 £11,975 (returned to Mrs E by beneficiary bank)
19 February 2021 £4,4752 March 2021 £30,000 (Santander refuse to make payment)
Mrs E raised the matter with Santander who looked into things and issued its final response 
on 3 June 2021, not upholding Mrs Es complaint. In summary it said, as these were 
international payments, it wasnt able to review Mrs Es claim under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM code). It added that taking everything into account, it had 
taken all appropriate steps to prevent Mrs E from being scammed, including discussing 
payments with her, stopping the payment for £30,000 and invoking the Banking Protocol and 
contacting the Police. Santander added that it had been unable to recover any of the money 
lost from the beneficiary bank.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs E then brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. In summary she 
didnt think Santander should be liable for what happened. While she thought there were 
opportunities for Santander to warn Mrs E sooner than it did, she said that, even if it had 
done, she didnt think it would have made a difference. This was because she thought the 
scam had taken a hold on Mrs E early on and was difficult to break. Our Investigator also 
didnt think Santander had missed an opportunity to recover any of the money she had lost.
Mrs E didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary she said;
- Santander are the experts in financial matters and did not act appropriately and in 
her best interests.
- The Banking Protocol was not followed, as Santander failed to notify another service 
provider of the history of her situation (i.e. that she was vulnerable to fraudsters).
- Banks are there to protect vulnerable people and Santander should have used their 
expertise and knowledge, in recognising the signs, that are so obvious to banks. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to acknowledge how devastating it must have been for Mrs E to discover 
that she had fallen victim to such a callous scam. I understand her strength of feeling in 
pursuing this matter. But despite my natural sympathy for what has taken place, I can only 
uphold this complaint if I find that Santander ought to have done more than it did at the time 
Mrs E made the payments and whether that would have made a difference to Mrs E losing 
this money.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Santander to refund the 
money Mrs E sent. I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Mrs E. Shes told us at length of 
both the emotional impact and financial strain this has caused her. It is not my intention to 
add to her distress at an already difficult time.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.I can see from Mrs Es submissions to the bank, and this service, that reference has been 
made to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). This is in place to help the 
victims of APP scams, like the one Mrs E has fallen victim to and requires firms that have 
signed up to the CRM code (such as Santander) to reimburse customers in all but limited 
circumstances. But the Code doesnt apply to all transactions made on a customers 
account. Importantly, it doesnt apply to the ones Mrs E made as they were international 
payments; the Code only applies to payments made between UK based accounts. So the 
CRM code doesnt apply to the payments Mrs E made from her Santander account.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, it isnt the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. Taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
- In this case, I need to consider whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs E when she made the transfers, or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them.
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably in Mrs Es case?
Mrs E has accepted she authorised the payments. Because of this Santander had an 
obligation to follow her instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
I dont think the first payment Mrs E made to the fraudsters, for £250 on 22 January 2021, 
was so out of character or unusual, when compared to the typical activity on her Santander 
account, that I would have expected the bank to have had concerns she may have been at 
risk of financial harm, to the extent that I think it should have intervened. It follows I think it 
was fair and reasonable for Santander to allow this payment to progress.
The second and third payments Mrs E made, for £7,500 (25 January 2021) and £22,900 (4 
February 2021) both flagged on Santanders fraud detection systems and were blocked, as 
was the payment for £30,000 that Mrs E attempted on 2 March 2021. So I dont need to 
make a finding here as to whether I think Santander ought to have intervened, as it 
recognised itself that these payments were unusual and warranted its intervention. From the 
evidence Ive seen, the payments Mrs E attempted to make on 4 February 2021 (£12,000) 
and 9 February 2021 (£11,975), didnt result in an intervention by Santander. But these 
payments werent lost, as they were rejected by the beneficiary bank.Having listened to the calls that Santander had with Mrs E on 24 January 2021 and 4 
February 2021 (that took place ahead of the payments for £7,500 and £22,900 being 
released), I agree with our Investigator, in that I dont think Santanders intervention went far 
enough. Given the unusual nature of the payments Mrs E was making, in comparison to how 
she typically ran her account, I think it would be reasonable to have expected Santander to 
have questioned Mrs E further about these payments than it did, to satisfy itself that she 
wasnt at risk of financial harm.
But, this in and of itself, isnt enough for me to say that Santander should refund Mrs E the 
money she lost. Although I think Santander could have done more than it did during these 
calls, I also need to be persuaded that its intervention would have made a difference and 
prevented the payments from being made. Of course I cant know for sure what would have 
happened, had Santander probed Mrs E further about these payments. So, I have to base 
my findings on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened, taking into account what I know. Having thought carefully about this, sadly I 
dont think any further intervention at this point is more likely than not to have made a 
difference and stopped Mrs E from making the payments. Ill explain why.
Im persuaded Mrs E would have been able to give plausible answers to any questions that 
Santander could reasonably have been expected to ask. I think she would have been able to 
convincingly explain that the payment was for her partner and that theyd been together for a 
number of years. Alongside this, given the level of detail the fraudsters had provided to    
Mrs E about the project they were supposedly working on/coupled with Mrs Es own 
personal experience of working with exports/internationally, I think she would have been able 
to provide credible answers to Santander, had it probed her further about the nature of the 
work B was undertaking.
As well as this, Im mindful that Mrs E had indicated to Santander that B had some kind of 
entitlement to the money, telling it that the money was both of theirs, but was just held in her 
sole account. Mrs E had also been given photos of B (and his family) and had spoken to her 
own family about B at this stage, who Mrs E has said also thought B was genuine. On 
balance, Im persuaded the answers Mrs E would have given would more likely than not 
have satisfied Santander that she wasnt at risk of financial harm. So Im not persuaded that 
further intervention at this point would have made a difference. For the same reasons, I dont 
think Santander wouldve been able to prevent the next payment of £4,475 even if it had 
sufficiently intervened.
Santander went on to stop the payment for £30,000 that Mrs E attempted on 2 March 2023, 
and, following a call with Mrs E, invoked the Banking Protocol; requesting the Police visit 
her. I can see that Santander also clearly expressed concerns about what she was doing 
and the risks. Ive thought carefully about what happened at this point and whether 
Santander shouldve done any more to protect Mrs E from financial harm from fraud.
Mrs E thinks it shouldve done more and contacted the bank she told it she was going to 
send the money to. A bank has various options as to the steps it might take to protect 
someone from financial harm from fraud and its my understanding this was an option open 
to it. But it doesnt automatically follow that by not taking this particular step it makes 
Santander liable for Mrs Es loss. Had Santander not invoked the banking protocol and 
asked the police to visit her I mightve felt that a reasonable next step to take. But Santander 
had taken this serious action, and Mrs E had assured Santander she would not be making 
further payments to the fraudster  rather that shed be paying off debt. Overall I think 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances and I dont think it shouldve 
done more than it did here.Ive also thought about whether this level of intervention shouldve come sooner, particularly 
as Mrs E has explained she didnt have the same tunnel vision earlier on in the scam. On 
balance I dont think it should have. By the time the payment for £30,000 was being 
attempted, there had been a further, not insignificant, uplift in the size of payment Mrs E was 
intending to make, it was to another new payee, and the bank were aware that previous 
attempted payments had been refused by the beneficiary bank, which Santander considered 
to be suspicious. Where this additional information wasnt available to it earlier, I dont think it 
was wrong for it not to go to such lengths on the earlier payments.
And even if it had, while Mrs E has suggested shed have been more receptive to this level 
of intervention earlier on, the evidence doesnt persuade me this wouldve been the case. I 
accept Mrs E was initially reluctant to make the first payment of £250, but she was quickly 
willing to send thousands of pounds and take out finance to facilitate this. Im persuaded that 
Mrs E only agreed to pay B increasing sums of money because she was convinced the 
requests were legitimate by this point and her early scepticism had abated.
Finally, Ive thought about whether Santander did enough to try and recover the payments 
Mrs E made to the fraudsters. It did attempt to recover the international payments Mrs E 
made, but the banks involved either didnt respond or told Santander that they couldnt gain 
the permission of their account holder in order to recover any money. So, I dont think 
Santander could have done any more in this regard.
Mrs E has been brave enough to tell us something of her background. Which I imagine was 
hard to do, I thank her for this and can understand why she believes this would make her 
more susceptible to becoming a victim of this type of scam. I dont mean to in any way 
diminish the difficult personal circumstances Mrs E has been faced with, but I cant see that 
the bank would have been aware of any vulnerabilities she had prior to the scam, so there 
was no reason for it to think she might be at higher risk of financial harm from fraud, prior to 
it taking the steps it took.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs E being the victim of what was clearly a cruel scam 
that has had a significant impact on her. But it would only be fair for me to direct Santander 
to refund her loss if I thought it was responsible for the failure that caused it. And for the 
reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that it wouldve been able to prevent Mrs Es loss. 
So, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold it liable in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman