DRN-3491970
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received during a call with National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I). 
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of 
the key points.
During a call with NS&I Mr W requested a change to the phone number it held for him. The 
NS&I representative repeated the number back to Mr W and said oh as in the alphabetical 
letter O, rather than zero. Mr W says this was incorrect and subsequently raised a 
complaint about the standards at NS&I and the customer service provided. 
NS&I reviewed Mr Ws concerns but didnt think its representative had acted 
unprofessionally. But it offered Mr W £25 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of his 
dissatisfaction with the service he had received. 
Mr W remained unhappy with NS&Is review and referred his complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns and found the call handler hadnt spoken 
incorrectly, and that NS&I had responded to Mr Ws complaint appropriately. 
Dissatisfied with the investigators review, Mr W asked for his complaint to be escalated to 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made very detailed submissions about his complaint and has criticised both NS&I 
and this service for not addressing all of his questions and concerns. I appreciate his 
strength of feeling, but Im not required to respond to each and every question. Ive 
concentrated on the main issues and what I believe to be the crux of the complaint. And if I 
havent commented specifically on a particular point, that doesnt mean I havent considered 
it and it isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
I want to start by clarifying the role of this service. Mr W raised several wider concerns about 
NS&Is staff recruitment, training and its general processes. This service is not the industry 
regulator. That means I cannot make rules for financial businesses, nor can I tell a business 
how to run its day to day operations or to change its processes. Instead my role is to resolve 
complaints brought by individuals about financial businesses and decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of an individual complaint. For Mr Ws case, this means 
considering whether NS&I have treated him fairly and reasonably both during and after the 
phone call in question. 
NS&I has provided a recording of the phone call during which Mr W requests his phone 
number be updated. I have listened to this call and I understand Mr W was immediately 
concerned when the representative said oh instead of zero. The representative clarified 
that as he was repeating a phone number, he knew Mr W meant oh the number, not the 
letter. Mr W says the representative was rude during the call. Having listened to the call, I 
dont agree. The representative did not agree with Mr Ws comments, he explained his view 
of the situation and he then explained that Mr Ws details had been updated. The 
representative was entitled to explain his thoughts on Mr Ws comments, and I dont think his 
disagreement with Mr Ws view equates to rudeness or poor service. The representative 
remained calm and professional throughout the call, so I dont think NS&I treated Mr W 
unfairly here. 
In its response to Mr Ws complaint NS&I explained that it allows its representatives choose 
how they pronounce the number zero. Mr W says this is an issue, and the training and 
procedures in place at NS&I are essentially inadequate. As I have explained above, it is not 
for me to comment on NS&Is general business practices or direct it to change the way it 
runs its call centres. I think its response to Mr W is clear and offers an adequate explanation 
of Mr W experience and how it expects its call handlers to engage with customers. I also 
find the £25 gesture of goodwill a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Mr W strongly believes the alleged mispronunciation is a major risk for the security of his 
account with NS&I. I appreciate Mr Ws concerns, but I am satisfied that on balance, the 
security framework in place would take into account the different ways in which numbers - in 
this case a phone number, can be repeated. In any event, Mr W hasnt provided any 
examples of instances where this has been an issue with his NS&I account. So, I dont think 
this is something that has had a negative impact on Mr W or warrants any further 
compensation. 
I know this will not be the outcome Mr W was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be 
asking NS&I to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman