DRN-1944985
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1999 
in connection with a joint mortgage. 
They have also complained that Lloyds has made inaccurate statements in letters and 
referred to the wrong financial products. They want compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience.
   
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H complained they were not told the policy was optional and they said the 
policy was not suitable for their needs. They bought accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. The benefit was split into shares of 70% for Mr H and 30% for Mrs H.
Mrs H produced tax documents to show she was earning more than had been declared in 
the mortgage application. And she produced various statements from her savings and 
current accounts to show she had £14,000 in savings in her own name at the time of the PPI 
sale. Both Mr H and Mrs H said they would also get good sick pay benefits. They conclude 
the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because they were offered an 
optional policy and it was suitable for their needs when it was taken out. Our adjudicator said 
the information might have been clearer but concludes Mr H and Mrs H probably would have 
bought the PPI anyway.
Mr H and Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the whole matter to be 
looked at again particularly in light of their incomes and Mrs Hs savings.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether Lloyds Bank made Mr H and Mrs H aware the policy was optional. 
They said they couldnt remember how it was sold and they were not told it was an optional 
product. But I looked at the mortgage application form and the separate PPI application form 
from 1999 which Mr H and Mrs H both signed on 27 January. It is clear they bought the 
mortgage and PPI on the same day on 27 January and completed separate forms. I can 
reasonably assume they didnt have to instruct Lloyds Bank to complete the PPI form at all 
and so could have declined PPI. 
I saw Mr H and Mrs H had signed the PPI form, so I can reasonably assume they checked 
the contents of the form before signing it to make sure they agreed the contents. So I think 
their signatures were enough to have PPI added to their mortgage account with their 
consent. 
I also noted that the policy was tailored to cover Mr H and Mrs H for accident, sickness and 
unemployment in 70% and 30% shares  presumably to reflect their different incomes. I 
think that would have been the result of a conscious decision to split the PPI cover in this 
way. So I think the PPI was most likely presented to Mr H and Mrs H as an optional product 
which they could change or decline and it was added to their account with their full consent.  
Lloyds Bank said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for 
Mr H and Mrs Hs needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for them because they were both 
eligible to buy PPI, the policy was affordable for them at the time of the sale and it doesnt 
look like they were affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the policy. 
I then looked into their financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy was 
still suitable for them.
Mr H and Mrs H said they were in employment and would get good employee benefits if they 
were off sick or couldnt work due to an accident. However, having decided they wanted PPI 
and chose to have it, I think Mr H and Mrs H probably thought the policy provided a valuable 
benefit to them in addition to their employee benefits. I say this because the PPI could have 
paid out for longer than their employee benefits at a time when they might have needed it 
most. So I dont think their employee benefits made the policy unsuitable.
Mrs H said she had £14,000.00 in savings  this would have been a years salary according 
to the income figures on the mortgage application form. However, she produced tax records 
to show she was earning more than that around the day of the sale, so I dont think her 
savings made the policy unsuitable. I also looked carefully at all of Mrs Hs statements. On 
20 January 1999 (7 days before the PPI sale), I can see she had £100.00 in the savings 
account. She then transferred £45,000.00 into the savings account on 2 February. And she 
explained this sum was earmarked for the deposit on the house they were buying. So I dont 
think her savings made the policy unsuitable for them.
I think the PPI was useful for Mr H and Mrs H to be able to rely on the PPI policy for 
mortgage repayments instead of using any other funds which could be used for other 
expenses. So I dont think Mr Hs and Mrs Hs finances at the time of the sale made the 
policy unsuitable.  
Mr H and Mrs H said they could rely on parents to make their mortgage repayments. I do 
understand the point, but there was no guarantee they could rely on this support at some 
unknown point n the future. So I dont think this makes the policy unsuitable.
I also looked at whether Lloyds Bank gave Mr H and Mrs H enough clear information about 
the policy. In respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set out 
these details. But having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually 
explained to them in the meeting. So as Ive decided they chose to have PPI and that it was 
suitable and affordable for them, I dont think that having more detailed information about the 
cost and benefits would have put them off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mr H and Mrs Hs attention. 
But as they were not affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I dont think they would have decided not to buy PPI even if theyd been given a full list of the 
exclusions. 
Mr H and Mrs H also complained about the service it received from Lloyds Bank during the 
complaint process. They said they didnt receive all letters  so they doubted they were sent; 
they said Lloyds was confusing and sometimes conflating information about two separate 
complaints and they added some letters were factually incorrect.
Lloyds Bank said it received Mr Hs and Mrs Hs complaints on the same day. It noted one of 
the complaints related to Mrs H only, so it opened a separate file for each complaint. Lloyds 
Bank also said the complaints were received around the time of the PPI deadline date, so it 
had large workloads to get through. It accepted some letters crossed over and may have 
provided some confusing information. Lloyds Bank apologised for any distress it may have 
caused. 
I would have expected Lloyds to open two separate complaint files and to deal with them in 
separate correspondence  although I do not expect Mr H and Mrs H to have been aware of 
that. A consumer may initially think Lloyds has missed a complaint by only dealing with one 
complaint in each letter. And if the consumer corresponds about both complaints at the 
same time, this will cause some duplication of effort for all parties and I appreciate this is 
both confusing and frustrating. However, I think Lloyds Banks apology is a fair way to deal 
with this complaint and I am not going to ask it to do anything more. So I am not going to 
uphold Mr Hs and Mrs Hs complaint for more compensation.
Taking everything into account, I think they were aware PPI was optional and they 
consented to buy it. I think it that it was suitable for their circumstances and that they had 
enough clear information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman