DRN-1477974
 
complaint
Ms P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS), mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms P took out a credit card in October 1999. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments on her credit card for up to 12 months at a time 
if she couldnt work.
Ms P says she was led to believe the PPI wasnt optional. 
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. Ms P disagrees, so her case 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ms P applied for the credit card by completing an application form. RBS has provided a copy 
of Ms Ps original application form and this shows that Ms P ticked a box to say she wanted 
the PPI. Ms P doesnt dispute that she did this, but she says that because the wording 
included the phrase We strongly recommend you take out this cover she understood this to 
mean that it was a requirement for getting the finance accepted.
I dont agree. There is nothing in the wording to suggest it was compulsory or that it would in 
any way affect the outcome of Ms Ps credit application. If it had been compulsory I am 
satisfied it wouldnt have offered Ms P a choice about selecting it on the form. 
So, on balance, on the information I have, I dont think RBS misled Ms P into thinking she 
had to take the PPI. I think Ms P was given a fair choice about taking it.
RBS didnt make a personal recommendation to Ms P about buying the PPI  it didnt have 
personal contact with her other than through the application form. So it didnt need to check 
it was right for Ms P. But it did have to make sure she had enough information to make her 
own decision about whether it was right for her. I dont think RBS did this. There is no 
detailed information about the cover on the form.
But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Ms Ps complaint though. I have to 
consider whether Ms P would have acted differently and not bought the policy if shed had all the information available to her. Looking at Ms Ps personal circumstances at the time of 
sale I think that she would have bought the policy. I say this because:
 
Ms P was eligible for the policy, and she wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Ms P wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for much longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So it provided an additional benefit;
Ms P would have been entitled to statutory redundancy pay, but this would only have 
been worth a few weeks salary to her. Ms P didnt have any savings at the time of 
sale. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months at a time in the event of a 
successful claim, so I think it offered a useful additional benefit here too. 
The cost of the policy was comparable with other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty.
 
So I dont think Ms P lost out as a result of anything RBS might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint so it follows that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman