DRN-2948374
The complaint
Mr K complains says that a holiday he took in 2019 was not satisfactory. Because he paid 
for it using his credit card, he says that American Express Services Europe Limited should 
provide a refund.  
What happened
In October 2019 Mr K took a package holiday through a company, which Ill call G. He had 
paid for it with his American Express credit card. 
Mr K was unhappy with a number of aspects of the holiday. His concerns included the 
following:
He feels that he was treated differently from other hotel guests, as he was a lone British 
traveller but spoke the local language. 
He could only operate the air-conditioning in his room for one hour a day.
The tap water was discoloured.
His room was dirty, and his towels were not changed.
There was a poor choice of food on offer. 
He expected a private transfer from his hotel, but instead he had to travel with other 
guests. 
Mr K raised his concerns with the hotel and then with American Express, which in turn 
discussed the matter with G. It said that Mr K had been offered a transfer to a different hotel 
but that he had declined. It did not think that Mr K had provided sufficient evidence of the 
matters that concerned him. American Express noted too that Mr K had continued with the 
holiday, so it would be unfair to provide a full refund as he had requested. 
Mr K did not accept American Expresss response and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered it but did not consider that  even on the basis of what 
Mr K had said  there was a breach of contract in this case. In the circumstances, he thought 
American Express had responded fairly to Mr Ks claim.
Mr K did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr K paid for his holiday with his American Express credit card, one effect of 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, if he has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against G, he has a like claim against American Express. 
I note what Mr K has said about the hotel, its facilities and the quality of the service he 
received. He has provided evidence of some of the matters that gave rise to his complaint  
including pictures of di coloured tap water and the dirty floor of his hotel room. Assuming 
those pictures accurately represent what he experienced, I can understand why he was 
unhappy. No doubt he expected a higher standard of accommodation. 
Like the investigator, however, I do not believe I can fairly conclude that that there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation in this case. That is, I am not persuaded that Mr K 
was not provided with what was agreed with G. He paid for and received flights, transfers 
and accommodation. I have seen nothing to suggest he was told, for example, how 
frequently the hotel would be cleaned or what food would be available. Whilst it is not for me 
to decide whether G was in breach of contract, it would in my view be surprising if Mr K were 
able to make a successful claim. 
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for American Express to decline Mr Ks claim 
under section 75.      
My final decision
For these reasons I do not require American Express Services Europe Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman