DRN-3220912
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim she made for 
subsidence under her home insurance policy.
Any references to AXA are intended to include the actions of its agents. 
 
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mrs Y had previously had two episodes of subsidence at her property. The most recent 
repairs to the superstructure of the property were finished two years prior to her noticing 
some further cracking in the same area. Mrs Ys house is surrounded by trees on a 
neighbouring property that are protected by tree preservation orders. Orders had previously 
been granted for some vegetation to be removed, but similarly some requests had been 
declined.
Mrs Y made a further claim to AXA. AXA said that while only two years had passed since 
repairs were completed it needed to start the process of investigating the cause and 
monitoring the property again. It said it wouldnt consider or complete any repairs until those 
investigations had concluded.  
Mrs Y was unhappy with this as the previous repair to her property hadnt lasted. She 
believed the cause of the subsidence would be found to be the same as on the last two 
occasions  root induced clay shrinkage caused by the surrounding vegetation. Mrs Y said 
her property was deteriorating and to leave it for a further period of time to allow for 
monitoring to take place would likely cause more damage. Mrs Y therefore arranged for a 
surveyor to visit the property and provide a report on the likely cause and repairs needed.
The report concluded that the damage was most likely from the same cause as on the 
previous two occasions and commented that previous mitigation measures had clearly failed 
and not been lasting. It recommended sub structure repairs be undertaken to the property. 
Mrs Y complained to AXA but also arranged for the property to be underpinned in the 
meantime. She wants AXA to reimburse her the cost of this, plus the reports, surveyors and 
legal fees she incurred. AXA didnt change its position but offered to pay Mrs Y what the 
previous claim cost, to absolve its liability. Mrs Y brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He thought AXA 
had acted unreasonably by insisting on a further period of monitoring and not considering 
the report Mrs Y provided. He recommended AXA reimburse the cost Mrs Y paid to have the 
underpinning completed on the property.
AXA disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that in order to establish 
liability it would have needed to undertake further monitoring. It also suggested it may have 
taken a different course of action in repairing the substructure of the property. It suggested 
newer techniques were available which meant underpinning may not have been the only 
course of action available.
The case has come to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 22 November 2021. In it is said I was minded to uphold 
the complaint for the following reasons:
Having reviewed the investigations that were undertaken on the property previously 
and AXAs claim notes from the current claim, I think it has been acknowledged that 
the cause of the subsidence is more likely than not to be the same as previously.
It is arguable therefore that further monitoring of the property would unlikely have 
yielded any different results. AXA has argued it needed to undertake investigations to 
establish liability however this is its commercial concern. Mrs Y is indemnified for the 
damage caused and AXA should put that right. I therefore think, in this case, given 
the information available, and that the previous repair wasnt lasting and effective, it 
acted unreasonably by refusing to progress the claim further.
AXA has suggested the repairs may have lasted longer had 2018 not had an 
unusually hot summer. This may have been the case, however it is in part irrelevant, 
as it simply served to highlight the existing issue.
Given the repairs completed in 2016 failed two years later I dont think it can be said 
they were lasting or effective  as we would expect any repairs AXA undertakes to 
be. There is reference in the file to a report from a surveyor AXA instructed in 2013, 
which apparently suggests sub structure repairs should be considered if mitigation 
measures arent successful. I havent been provided with a copy of this report to verify 
myself what was said, but I believe there is sufficient reference to it in the information I 
have received to think that is more likely than not what was suggested at that time.
Given the information available to me and the history of subsidence at the property, I 
think it is more likely than not some kind of substructure repairs would have been 
necessary. However, I am unable to determine if the course of action Mrs Y chose to 
take in terms of underpinning the property was the only option. I appreciate it provides 
stability for the property and peace of mind for Mrs Y, however the policy only intends 
for reasonable works to be undertaken to put right the damage  not to take 
preventative measures. For a repair to be lasting and effective that may however 
mean that some works have to be undertaken which usually wouldnt be covered 
under the policy or maybe classed as betterment.
AXA has suggested that even if substructure repairs were necessary other, newer 
repair techniques, may have been considered/more appropriate. It has also said the 
surveyor Mrs Y instructed wouldnt have been independent as they would have had a 
vested interest in recommending work be completed.
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I do think AXA acted unreasonably in refusing 
to progress the claim based on all of the information available. However, I agree that it 
may not be fair to simply accept Mrs Ys surveyors recommendation of the work 
required.
Putting things right-I think the fair thing to do would be for AXA to appoint - and pay for - an independent 
surveyor to assess the situation. It should give Mrs Y the option of choosing one from a 
list of at least three independent surveyors.
The surveyor should then be instructed to assess all of the information available on the 
previous subsidence claim(s) as well as the most recent one. Mrs Y should also make 
available the report from her surveyor and any other information she has on the work 
that was completed. The surveyor should determine the most likely cause of damage to 
the property and give their opinion on whether the underpinning Mrs Y had completed 
was reasonable in order to achieve a lasting and effective repair. If the surveyor believes 
a different repair would have been more suitable to achieve a lasting and effective 
repair, they should provide their opinion on this.
AXA should then reconsider the claim in light of this information. If the surveyor 
concludes the underpinning was a reasonable course of action, I would suggest AXA 
considers paying the costs Mrs Y incurred in having the work completed. However, it 
would be for AXA to decide how to settle the claim based on the information received 
and, if Mrs Y is unhappy with that decision, she would be free to raise a further 
complaint.
-Given I think AXA unreasonably refused to progress the claim, Mrs Y went to the 
expense of arranging a surveyor to visit the property and report on the damage. So, I 
think AXA should reimburse Mrs Y the cost of the inspection report with interest at 8% 
simple per annum. I wont be asking AXA to cover the legal fees Mrs Y incurred as it 
was her decision to incur them at that stage rather than approach this service without 
charge.
-AXAs handling of the claim would have caused Mrs Y trouble and upset so I think it 
should also pay her £300 compensation to recognise this.
  
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA responded to my provisional decision and in summary made the following statements:
Without monitoring and site investigations it was not possible to confirm with any 
certainty the property was subsiding again. Although it admits this was likely. 
Without the same investigations, the cause could not be confirmed
It does not accept claims until subsidence investigations have been undertaken and 
its ability to do this was frustrated by Mrs Y proceeding with repairs
It accepted the claim in good faith and offered a fair settlement
The repairs in 2016 have not failed as the vegetation in that instance was removed., 
This would be a new episode of subsidence as the property was stabilised.
Mitigation was undertaken in 2013 so the surveyors report is irrelevant.
Mrs Ys actions means it cannot recover any of its costs now, it is possible a third 
party could have been found at fault. 
It has dealt with the claim in the same way it would have any other and believes it 
has offered a fair and reasonable settlement.
Mrs Y responded to my provisional decision and in summary made the following points:
She doubts whether another surveyor would have sufficient experience in such a 
complex case
The surveyor she used should be considered independent as they gained no benefit 
from the work they recommended
She sourced her own experts and contractors and they were not linked in anyway. AXA were invited to all site meetings but declined to attend. It was also invited to put 
forward alternative proposals.
She is concerned by my recommendation that AXA decides how to settle the claim if 
the report is supportive of her position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate both parties feel very strongly about what has happened. I want to assure them 
Ive read and considered carefully everything theyve said. However, my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mrs Y, and by AXA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
 Having done so, Im, not minded to change the outcome I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
I acknowledge AXAs point that the specific vegetation that caused the last subsidence 
episode was removed. And this technically is therefore a new episode of subsidence. That is 
the case, however we cannot lose sight of the fact this is a property with historical 
subsidence issues where the main cause (vegetation) has been the same on each occasion. 
The property is surrounded by protected trees, applications had already been declined to 
remove two trees and as AXAs surveyors have noted, the cause (vegetation - specifically 
the trees) was likely to be the same again on this occasion. 
 
AXA has said the surveyors comments from the 2013 claim are irrelevant as the property 
was stabilised, however I disagree they are not important. The surveyors AXA instructed in 
2019 reported that they would normally commence site investigations however, considering 
what has happened, and Mrs Ys evidence it asked for AXAs approval to:
prepare a detailed design for foundation stabilisation and repairs, and to obtain a costed 
scheme of works.,rather than embarking on a further round of investigations and mitigation 
giving rise to a need for extended monitoring and with no guarantee that the subsequent 
TPO Application would be successful.  
The report also acknowledged the likelihood of similar levels of recurrent damage. 
It therefore appears that both surveyors acknowledged the likely need for substructure 
repairs to stabilise the property in a lasting and effective way. AXA argues the most recent 
repairs didnt fail as the long hot summer meant different trees caused further movement. 
However, I think this is a rather simplistic view which misses the point when viewed in the 
wider context. 
As AXA is aware, we look at each complaint on its own circumstances, and in this case, 
having reviewed everything available to me I think it could have dealt with this claim in a 
more pragmatic way. So, I remain of the opinion the complaint should be upheld. 
Having considered Mrs Ys comments, Im not suggesting the surveyor she instructed didnt 
act professionally when giving his opinion. Rather I acknowledge, because repairs were 
completed AXA has now lost the ability to undertake its own assessment of the most 
appropriate remedy and control the costs associated with that. I do acknowledge Mrs Y invited AXAs input during the claim process however this doesnt change my opinion that a 
fair way forward would be for an independent assessment to now take place. 
Given the outcome of the assessment is unknown and therefore the extent to which the 
claim should be met. I dont think it is reasonable to dictate at this point how AXA should 
settle the claim. It should take the findings of the report into account and settle the claim in 
light of those. The role of this service isnt to manage claims, so it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me at this point to make a further recommendation here. Should Mrs Y be unhappy with how 
the claim progresses, it remains open to her to make a further complaint to AXA.
Overall, having reviewed everything, my decision is this complaint should be upheld and the 
matter put right as I previously recommended. 
Putting things right
To put things right, AXA should do the following:
- Appoint - and pay for - an independent surveyor to assess the situation. It should give 
Mrs Y the option of choosing one from a list of at least three independent surveyors.
The surveyor should then be instructed to assess all of the information available on the 
previous subsidence claim(s) as well as the most recent one. Mrs Y should also make 
available the report from her surveyor and any other information she has on the work 
that was completed. The surveyor should determine the most likely cause of damage to 
the property and give their opinion on whether the underpinning Mrs Y had completed 
was reasonable in order to achieve a lasting and effective repair. If the surveyor believes 
a different repair would have been more suitable to achieve a lasting and effective 
repair, they should provide their opinion on this.
AXA should then reconsider the claim in light of this information. If the surveyor 
concludes the underpinning was a reasonable course of action, I would suggest AXA 
considers paying the costs Mrs Y incurred in having the work completed. However, it 
would be for AXA to decide how to settle the claim based on the information received 
and, if Mrs Y is unhappy with that decision, she would be free to raise a further 
complaint.
- Reimburse Mrs Y the cost of the inspection report with interest at 8% simple per 
annum from the date she paid, to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mrs Y £300 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ys complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. I direct it 
to put things right as I have set out in the section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman