DRN-3157102
The complaint
Ms G complains that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided her with a loan which was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Bamboo provided Ms G with a loan as follows:
Date 
takenDate 
repaidNumber of 
monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountTypical 
monthly 
repayment*APR Total amount 
payable over loan 
term
July 
2017August 
201860 £5,000 £197.09 49.7% £11,825.37
In December 2019 Ms G took out a second loan with Bamboo but this was cancelled within 
the 14 day cooling off period and repaid with no costs being incurred so this doesnt form 
part of Ms Gs complaint. I mention it here only because Bamboo did up to date credit 
checks at the time which I will discuss later on in my decision.
On Ms Gs behalf, her representative mainly said that Bamboo didnt properly undertake 
affordability checks when granting credit or assess signs of Ms G's over indebtedness. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She recommended upholding it and she set out 
the steps Bamboo should take to put things right. 
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said:
although Ms G had historic adverse credit, including three defaulted accounts and an 
outstanding county court judgement debt, she had been repaying these accounts 
satisfactorily over the previous two years and now looked to be managing her credit 
well
by December 2019, Ms G had paid all her defaulted accounts and the outstanding 
court debt, as well as other loans, so it queried the detriment to her and said this 
showed its loan had helped her to improve her financial situation 
Ms G repaid the loan well and settled the loan early just 12 months into the agreed 
term  and interest was rebated when she did this
Bamboo has more recently seen bank statements which cover the period running up 
to Ms G taking out the loan but said it wasnt proportionate to request these bank 
statements at the time. 
Bamboo didnt agree that the loan was unaffordable for Ms G and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Bamboo that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  
and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator and Im upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere. The checks should be borrower focussed so a lender must carefully consider 
how the loan will benefit the borrower and it should not just focus on the business risk to the 
lender of providing credit to someone with an impaired credit history. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Gs case. 
Bamboo asked Ms G some questions about her income and expenditure. Bamboo did its 
own checks, which included obtaining information about Ms Gs credit history and taking into 
account statistical information about how much someone in Ms Gs position typically spent 
each month on basic essentials. Bamboo worked out that, after making the monthly 
repayments for this loan, Ms G would still have around £197 spare cash. So it was satisfied 
that the loan looked comfortably affordable for her. I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability of this 
loan before it agreed to lend to Ms G. But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision 
when it lent to Ms G based on the information it had gathered. 
I say this because Bamboo was able to see from its credit checks that Ms G had three 
accounts in default, which had been defaulted since 2012 with an outstanding total debt of 
around £4,239. She also had an active county court judgement dating back to 2014 with an 
outstanding balance of £987. The credit checks Bamboo acquired also showed that Ms G 
had other accounts at or approaching their credit limit  and the balance on her only account 
with any significant credit (a mail order account with a limit of £3,000 and a current balance 
of £1,264) had mostly been increasing over the 8 months period shown in the credit report 
(the earliest balance shown was for November 2016 and the balance then had been £863). 
I dont think, based on what Bamboo had in front of it, I can fairly say that Bamboo saw 
enough to reasonably be satisfied that Ms G was going to be able to make the repayments 
for this loan in a sustainable way. I acknowledge that Bamboo disagrees  it felt its checks 
were proportionate and that it saw enough to agree to lend this loan. But bearing in mind it 
had calculated that she had disposable income of approximately £390 each month before 
taking out this Bamboo loan, to my mind this wouldve seemed at odds with what it saw on 
the credit checks it had carried out.
I think Bamboo should have considered why someone with the amount of disposable income 
its checks suggested Ms G had would have this information shown on her credit history and 
needed to make use of expensive credit the way it could see Ms G was doing  and also 
thought more carefully about how much confidence it could have in the information it had 
gathered.
All this leads me to conclude that before lending, at the very least, Bamboo should have 
carried out a complete review of Ms Gs finances and done more to verify what she had told 
it to ensure a more thorough understanding of her financial circumstances. 
Bamboo didnt do this. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely 
have shown.
Even if Bamboo had done more in-depth checks, I dont think it wouldve seen any 
information that wouldve reassured it. Rather, it would have seen confirmation that Ms G 
was in serious financial difficulty and unlikely to benefit from taking out this loan. 
I've looked at the bank statements provided by Ms G which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding her overall financial situation at the time. I can see that, far from having the 
amount of disposable income left over each month that Bamboo had calculated, in reality 
Ms G was struggling financially. Its clear that she was operating her bank account in 
overdraft  in the month running up to her taking out this loan the account was overdrawn 
every single day. She was paying for and making full use of her £1,750 arranged overdraft 
limit, typically being overdrawn by four figure amount. And this wasnt a one- off month  her 
bank statements for at least two previous months show a similar picture. 
I think its likely that it would also have been evident, had Bamboo done a proportionate 
check at the time, that Ms G was paying multiple debt collection companies, which hadnt 
been apparent on the credit checks Bamboo obtained.  
Bamboo didnt ask for this information at the time and it has only recently seen it. But it 
supports my view that, when making its lending decision, Bamboo shouldve realised it was 
unlikely that Ms G was going to be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way  in other 
words, without needing to borrow further.I've taken into account that the loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, Ms G 
said she planned to use her Bamboo loan to repay other debt. But this doesnt affect the 
outcome of her complaint. I dont think it was clear which debts she planned to repay  our 
investigator thought her plan might have been to pay off her adverse credit but said that the 
overall cost of this expensive loan eradicated any benefit she might gain from doing that. I 
agree  this was an expensive loan that she had signed up to pay for the next five years - a 
couple of the defaulted accounts were now less than £200 and looked likely to be cleared in 
the near future  keeping in mind that Bamboo had assessed Ms G as having around £390 
disposable income before taking out her Bamboo loan. 
Alternatively, looking at things another way, irrespective of which accounts she intended to 
repay, I think the scale of her debts and the extent of her evident money problems, 
compared to the much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that she would remain in 
serious financial trouble regardless. 
I dont agree with Bamboo when it says that its credit checks done in December 2019 
showed that its loan had helped Ms G improve overall financial situation. Bamboo mentioned 
that, by then, Ms G had settled two of her loans outstanding when she had taken out the 
Bamboo loan, resulting in a reduction in her debt servicing costs. And in its final response 
letter to Ms G it said she had successfully settled all her defaulted accounts, most of which 
were no longer visible on her credit file and the court judgement was also showing as 
satisfied.
But I dont think I can fairly say that the loan Bamboo provided did help Ms G when I can see 
that her overall indebtedness had increased from £10,702 when she took out the loan in July 
2017 to £14,522 in December 2019. Ms G had a bigger loan balance to pay and she had 
substantially increased her reliance on and use of revolving credit. It is apparent that Ms G 
was heavily reliant on using credit cards and she had multiple cards at or approaching their 
credit limit which had been stuck at that level for many months as she had been making only 
the minimum monthly repayments. The fact that Ms G was by then using 90% of her 
available credit (up from 84%) supports my view that she was struggling to manage debt 
effectively and continuing to have money problems. Ms G had also taken out substantial new 
loans with what appear to be other providers of high cost credit which helps explain the big 
jump in her overall indebtedness. 
 
The fact alone that Ms G repaid the loan early doesnt mean that she was able to do so in a 
sustainable way. So I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided this loan. As Ms G has been 
further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt 
have been provided, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what Bamboo did 
wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Ms G some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below. But for all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is 
fair and reasonable for Bamboo to take the following steps to put things right.  
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Ms G shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. But she has had to pay interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been 
provided to her  which isnt fair or reasonable. With this in mind, and given that the loan has 
been repaid with a nil balance owing, Bamboo should now: 
add up the total amount of money Ms G received as a result of being given the loan. The payments Ms G made should be deducted from this amount 
if this results in Ms G having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
remove any adverse information placed on Ms Gs credit file regarding the loan
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman