DRN-3363945
The complaint
Mr T complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr T is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2018, Mr T was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr T decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. He also decided to add an 
optional extra, and so a separate quote was generated for that, dated January 2019. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In December 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ts behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr T to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr T or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had relied on the original quote from 2018, and had not referred to the 
new quote with the optional extra;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr T could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr T and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
Key documents
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr T says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two copies of the solar quote, titled Your Bespoke Quote and dated 
2018 and 2019. Ive considered these, along with Mr Ts testimony and recollection of the 
sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. The 2018 quote was 
about the basic system, and the 2019 quote was about two optional extras, a battery and a 
related feature called Social Energy (which seems to be included in the cost of the battery).
The 2019 quote did not supersede the 2018 quote, but was supplementary to it. It does not 
include the total price of the whole system, only the extras.
P, via Shawbrook, has told this service that these quotes formed a central part of the sales 
process and the representative of P would have discussed them in detail with Mr T, 
explaining any benefits of the system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the contract.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quotes did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through the 2018 quote during the meeting. Im also satisfied that the 2019 quote was sent to Mr T. So, Ive taken them both into account, along with Mr Ts version of events, 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
There were also two credit agreements. One, dated July 2018, was for the basic system, 
with monthly repayments of £99.19, and that monthly figure also appears in the 2018 quote. 
I have not seen the other credit agreement, but the 2019 quote indicates on the 
corresponding page that Mr T had to make additional monthly payments of £46.94, and this 
appears to fit with the cost of the extras, allowing for interest.
The 2018 credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the 
system), the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the 
contractual monthly repayments. It is likely that the 2019 agreement was set out in the same 
format and contained the same information about the extras.
FIT payments and savings
Mr T has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered each of the 
quotes that were provided by P, as well as Mr Ts recollections of his meeting with Ps 
representative, to decide what is most likely to have been said.
Each quote has a section headed Your Quotation. The first page of each section gives the 
price of the goods, and then the second page has three tables showing loan repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused first on the 2018 table for 120 
months, as this is the length of the 2018 loan that Mr T entered into with Shawbrook for the 
solar panels. This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £99.19. 
(This same figure also appears in the 2018 loan agreement, so that loan clearly does not 
include the optional extras which were added in 2019.) For each year of the ten year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the panels. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £99.19, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the panels and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the panels would never 
make enough money to cover the loan payments.
As Ive said, the 2019 quote was not about the entire system with the optional extras 
included, and it did not supersede the 2018 quote. Rather, it was just about the optional 
extras alone, and it dealt with these separately to the solar panels. The corresponding table 
gives a negative figure for the first seven years, meaning that the savings realised by the 
extras would take eight years to cover their own cash price.1
The negative figures were highlighted in red, and the positive figures in green, so I think this 
information was set out in a clear and accessible manner.
I think the two quotes clearly set out the income Mr T could expect to receive from the solar 
panels, and from the optional extras, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments for each of them. Whilst I accept that the tables dont simply compare the FIT 
income and savings to the monthly loan repayments, they do clearly set out that the overall 
income he could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would 
not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought 
about Mr Ts version of events. However, as Ive found that the quotes did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
total FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr T that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quotes played in the sales process, Ive 
considered the tables above which set out the estimated average monthly income from the 
panels and the extras, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan 
1 I have assumed, since I have seen no evidence about this point, that the term of the 2019 loan for 
the extras was also ten years. But in case it was only five years, the table for 60 months shows that 
the extras would not have paid for themselves within that loan term.
repayments. Im satisfied that the tables are clear and easy to understand. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the 2018 table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the 2018 
quote at the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected 
income and the monthly loan repayments. The 2019 quote, sent later, also sets this out.
Im of the view that all of this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the 
start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr T was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The What will you earn and save per year? page of each quote has a table detailing the 
estimated performance over 20 years. The 2018 quote shows that it would take 13 years for 
the overall benefits that Mr T could expect to receive from the panels to match their cash 
price, £8,419.95.
The 2019 quote shows that it would take eight years for both extras, the battery and the 
Social Energy together, to pay for the separate cash price of the battery, £3,937.50. (The 
Social Energy does not appear to incur an additional cost, but is included with the battery.)
So Im satisfied that P told Mr T that the solar panels (with no optional extras) would pay for 
their cash price in 13 years, and that the extras would pay for themselves within 8 years, as 
supported by the tables above, which were included in the quotes. If these were untrue 
statements of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, 
and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So 
I have considered the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between P and Mr T.
Performance
The MCS certificate and 2018 quote set out that the solar panels are expected to produce 
2,487 kWh a year. I have looked at Mr Ts FIT statements and can see that his panels, on 
average, have generated 2,518 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr T has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is not generating the expected solar energy, but for some other 
cause.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr T hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr T could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr T entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by both parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr T to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr T to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman