DRN-2640761
The complaint
Mr O complains that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd (EIS) didnt provide him with a copy 
of his car insurance policy documents. Hes also unhappy with the information EIS provided 
him about his Hire Car Cover when he needed to make a claim.
What happened
Mr Os complaint is about the service he received from EIS as the broker of his car 
insurance cover. Mr Os separate complaint about the handling and outcome of a claim he 
made under his car insurance policy will be addressed in a separate decision as that 
concerns EIS acting as the claims handler for the insurer (a company Ill refer to as N). Here, 
Im looking at what EIS did as broker, including what information they gave Mr O about his 
Hire Car Cover.
Mr O bought a comprehensive car insurance policy (insured by N) in April 2018. Alongside 
this policy he bought Hire Car Cover which was insured by a different insurer.
On the evening of 25 April 2018 Mr O was sent an email welcoming him to EIS and providing 
a link to his policy documents. EISs records show that Mr Os online account was created at 
18:28 on 25 April, and he logged into the account on 16 November 2018 at 19:59 after 
receiving a username reminder.
Under his comprehensive cover Mr O wasnt entitled to a replacement car unless his was 
being repaired. But under the separate Hire Car Cover he was entitled to 21 days continuous 
vehicle hire if his car was rendered a total loss. The terms and conditions explained:
Endsleighs Agent or a supplier of Endsleigh provides the benefits under this Policy 
 To report an incident, call the free 24 hour Claims Helpline immediately on  **62 
 Endsleigh or its agent will contact You to administer Your claim and arrange the 
supply of a Hire Car  
 a Hire Car will only be provided once confirmation is received from Endsleigh, 
that the Insured Vehicle is a total loss, not before
On 16 November 2018 Mr Os car was involved in an accident. Mr O contacted EIS on 
22 November to clarify a few points about his cover. During that call, Mr O was told that he 
had additional Hire Car Cover for 21 days, and the call handler confirmed Mr Os 
understanding that hed get this if his car was written-off.
On 27 November 2018 Mr Os wife entered into a finance agreement for a new family car.
An engineer assessed Mr Os car on 6 December 2018. He concluded the repairs would 
cost more than the vehicles value.
On 7 December 2018 Mr O spoke to EIS (in their capacity as Ns claims handler) about his 
total loss settlement. Mr O said he understood hed get a hire car for 21 days once the car 
was written-off and asked whether that would start once an offer was made or when he 
accepted an offer. The claims handler said he wasnt sure but thought it would be when an 
offer was made. Mr O was given a provisional offer on 14 December. He disputed the 
valuation and continued to speak with EIS about this, and his comprehensive cover, over 
several phone calls.
In January 2019 Mr O complained that hed been left without a vehicle during his claim. EIS 
issued a final response letter on 12 February 2019. They explained that although Mr O 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy vehicle under his comprehensive cover, he did have additional 
Hire Car Cover which could have been implemented for him by EISs agent. They explained: 
we would have needed to refer you back to them so this could be arranged.
In May 2019 Mr O complained that EIS had never provided him with his policy 
documentation, and that when hed made his claim in November 2018 he wasnt given 
adequate information about his Hire Car Cover. He said hed been caused emotional and 
financial frustration and was left without a vehicle when he should have had one. Mr O said a 
fair compensation figure would be £955 to reflect the costs hed incurred through not having 
a hire car.
EIS sent Mr O a further final response on 20 June 2019. They: accepted theyd incorrectly 
told him his policy documents had been posted to him when theyd actually been sent to his 
online account; accepted there had been two occasions where theyd failed to call him at an 
agreed time; and acknowledged theyd mis-informed him about his no claims bonus. In 
recognition of these failings EIS offered Mr O a total of £175 compensation.
Mr O remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said he was caused 
major inconvenience over the busy Christmas and New Year period because he wasnt 
given a replacement vehicle. For EISs administrative failings he wanted £350 
compensation. Mr O said he believes EIS breached the rules set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) by failing to provide him with his policy documents.
Our investigators views
Our investigator said that when EIS knew Mr Os car was a total loss, they should have 
started the process of implementing his additional Hire Car Cover. But he didnt think Mr O 
had been disadvantaged by EISs failure to do this, because that entitlement wouldnt have 
started until 7 December 2018 at the earliest, and by then Mrs O had already purchased a 
new family car. So, he didnt uphold that part of the complaint.
Another investigator, looking solely at Mr Os complaint about his policy documents and 
general customer service, thought EIS had done enough to resolve Mr Os complaint.
Mr O disagreed with both views. He disagreed with the investigators assessment that he 
hadnt been disadvantaged through not having a replacement car. He explained that 
because he didnt have a car, his wife had to go and buy a new one under a finance 
agreement in a rush.
He added that hed made over 90 calls to EIS in total (in their role as claims handler for N 
and broker of the policy), so the compensation theyve paid doesnt reflect the inconvenience 
caused to him.
So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
Further informationBecause Ive already looked at the period November 2018 to March 2019 in my decision 
about Mr Os separate complaint involving EIS, I asked EIS for evidence of how many calls 
Mr O made to their agents between April and June 2019. They provided records showing 
that there were at least 14 telephone contacts with Mr O over that period.
EIS have also provided copies of what they say would have been available to Mr O 
electronically when he bought the policy. This includes: a new business letter, a status 
disclosure (detailing the different underwriters involved and the role of EIS as an insurance 
intermediary), a statement of insurance, a policy summary (key facts), a certificate of motor 
insurance, and a copy of the full motor policy terms and conditions.
I asked EIS to explain what a consumer wouldve needed to do if theyd wanted to make a 
claim under their Hire Car Cover. They explained that at the point of the car being declared a 
total loss Mr O should have consulted his policy documentation and followed the instructions 
in the policy summary under the heading how to report an incident. Calling the number in 
that section would have put Mr O through to a claims management company who could have 
arranged a hire car.
My provisional decision
Having considered all the available evidence, I reached similar findings to our investigators. 
But because Mr Os complaint involved more than one business, and Id altered the scope of 
what we were looking at against EIS, I issued a provisional decision on 22 January 2021 to 
give both parties a final opportunity to respond to all the issues relevant to EIS. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, although I know 
Mr O will be disappointed, I dont intend to uphold it. My reasons are similar to those 
already set out in the investigators views.
For ease of reference Ive structured my decision against the main points of Mr Os 
complaint.
provision of policy documentation (including key features, and initial 
disclosure documents)
Mr O says that EIS breached FCA rules by failing to provide him with a copy of his 
policy documentation. But EIS have provided evidence that, on the day Mr O 
purchased the policy through an aggregator (comparison) website, he was sent an 
email providing him with a link to login and view his policy documents. From there 
hed have been able to save or print the documents for future reference. The email 
included a telephone number for him to contact if he needed further assistance. EIS 
have also shown that Mr Os online account was created around the same time as 
this welcome email was sent  18:28.
I cant see any evidence that Mr O accessed or viewed his policy documents on the 
day of purchase. Indeed, his only login to the online account seems to have been on 
16 November 2018, following the accident. And I can see that he was only able to 
login then because he requested confirmation of his username. But I dont think that 
means EIS failed to make Mr Os policy documentation available to him before that 
point. EIS would have been obliged to send Mr O a hard copy if hed asked for one, 
but Ive seen no evidence that he did.
I provisionally find that all of the required documentation would have been viewable 
by Mr O if hed followed the link in the welcome email on 25 April 2018. If hed done that and found it didnt work, then Id have expected him to make that known to EIS 
and to give them an opportunity to rectify any technical problem. But I cant see any 
evidence that Mr O tried to access his online account or contacted EIS between April 
2018 and the day of the accident.
When Mr O needed to make a claim (16 November 2018) I can see that he was able 
to access his online account. Im satisfied that from there hed have been able to 
view the full motor policy, along with the key facts and a statement of insurance. This 
included all the relevant information about what Mr O was covered for, and details of 
how to make a claim under the different parts of the policy.
So, overall, I cant fairly say EIS failed to provide Mr O with appropriate information 
about his car insurance policy.
information provided about the 21 days hire car cover
From what Ive seen, the policy summary available to Mr O through his online 
account included information about his additional Hire Car Cover. Ive also heard a 
recording of a telephone conversation Mr O had with EIS staff on 22 November 2018 
where he was reminded of this cover and clearly told that it could be claimed against 
if and when his car was deemed a write off.
Once EIS recognised that Mr Os car was a total loss around 7 December 2018, I 
agree with the investigator that EIS, even though they were primarily acting as the 
claims handler for N at that point, could have done more about Mr Os additional Hire 
Car Cover. At the very least I think they could have signposted him about how to 
implement that part of his cover and which agent to call.
But I also think Mr O had been given enough information at that point to know that if 
his car was written-off, he had the option of claiming for a hire car. And yet Ive seen 
nothing to indicate Mr O queried or mentioned his entitlement to a replacement 
vehicle again until he made his complaint in January 2019.
This suggests to me that Mr O wasnt in need of a replacement car by the time he 
received his total settlement offer (14 December 2018). From that point his 
conversations with EIS focussed on the valuation of his vehicle, the handling of his 
claim under his comprehensive policy, and the service hed received from EIS as 
agents of N. So, whilst Im critical that EIS didnt initiate the implementation of Mr Os 
Hire Car Cover or signpost him better, I also think Mr O missed opportunities to make 
a claim for one.
Mr O has said that if hed been provided with a replacement car under his additional 
Hire Car Cover hed have been spared significant inconvenience over the busy 
Christmas and New Year period, and that he and his wife would have been able to 
look for and purchase a new family car without such urgency. But I dont think it 
would have made a significant difference to what actually happened if EIS had 
implemented the Hire Car Cover or signposted Mr O to do so.
I say this because Mr Os Hire Car Cover only provided a hire car from the point EIS 
confirmed the car was a total loss. I think the earliest point that confirmation could 
have happened would have been around 6 December 2018 (the day an engineer 
assessed the car as a total loss), but Mr Os wife had already bought a new family 
car on 27 November. So, if the Hire Car Cover had been implemented on the first 
day it could have been, it wouldnt have changed how quickly they bought their new 
family car.I do recognise that between the day of the accident and the day Mrs O took 
possession of the new car they were without access to a family car. And I dont 
underestimate the difficulty that is likely to have caused. But as this Hire Car Cover 
wouldnt have provided a car until 6 December 2018 at the earliest, I cant say that 
period of inconvenience could have been avoided.
the overall customer service EIS provided
Mr O has expressed clearly his deeply held dissatisfaction with how EIS have dealt 
with him both as claim handlers for N and brokers. As Ive addressed what they did 
as claims handlers in a separate decision, Im only looking here at what EIS did as 
broker, particularly after Mr O raised his complaint about the policy documents and 
information he was given about his cover.
Ive listened to recordings of many of the conversations Mr O had with EIS between 
May and June 2019 to get a sense of what those interactions were like. Having done 
that, Ive concluded that there were occasions when Mr O was given unclear 
information about whether his policy documents were posted to him at the start of the 
policy or provided electronically. And I can hear that this lack of clarity and 
consistency in what he was being told further undermined his trust in EIS.
I can also see that there were a few occasions when Mr Os expectations of a call 
back at a specific time were not met, causing him significant frustration.
But, overall, I think the compensation EIS have offered to Mr O - £175  is a 
reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience he was caused. So, I dont 
intend to ask them to pay any more.
In response to my provisional findings EIS didnt provide any further comment.
Mr O didnt accept the outcome. He said his complaints had been watered down and 
simplified. He said he should receive compensation for not being provided with a 
replacement vehicle because hed paid money for a part of [the] policy that was never 
used. He also said he thought hed made many more calls to EIS than was shown by their 
records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I understand Mr O will be disappointed, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
For the reasons I set out in that decision, I dont uphold his complaint. I dont think EIS failed 
to provide Mr O with appropriate information about his car insurance policy. And, whilst I 
think there were occasions that EIS could have provided better customer service, their offer 
of £175 as compensation for their customer service failings is fair.
I acknowledge that, throughout the course of his claim and complaint, Mr O made frequent 
calls to EIS. And during the handing of his complaint EIS did tell him there were around 90 
calls on their systems. But the evidence Ive seen shows far fewer than that, and EIS have 
explained that the recording system will sometimes show one call as multiple recordings. So, 
I think thats why the complaint handler mentioned the figure of 90.With regard to the information EIS provided Mr O about the Hire Car Cover, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I find that EIS could have signposted him better at the point his car was 
deemed a total loss. But as theyd given him information about his additional Hire Car Cover 
as part of the policy summary, and told him about this cover again on 22 November 2018, I 
do think he was given enough information to be able to use this cover.
Mr O paid £32 for the additional Hire Car Cover and I realise he didnt get the benefit of it. 
But I dont think that means he should receive compensation from EIS. I still think Mr O knew 
about this cover but didnt take his opportunities to use it. I dont think the fact he didnt use it 
can be fairly or wholly attributed to EIS. I also dont think Mr O would have been spared the 
inconvenience hes described if EIS had done things differently, because this cover wouldnt 
have provided a hire car until after Mr Os car had been written-off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman