DRN-3240145
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that a claim on its business protection insurance policy was 
rejected by the insurer because Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited trading as Marsh Commercial 
(Marsh) failed to pass on details of the claim. P is represented in the complaint by Mrs S, 
one of its directors.
What happened
On 13 March 2018 there was an incident when some machinery that was being moved by P 
struck a sub-contractor, who suffered an injury.
On 25 April 2018 P notified Marsh in a phone call that it had received some correspondence 
about a claim being brought by the injured person. P then forwarded the correspondence to 
Marsh. On 1 May P emailed Marsh to check it had received the paperwork and confirm it 
had been passed to the insurer. Marsh confirmed the letter had been received and said it 
was being dealt with by the claims department.
Further letters were sent to P about the claim in 2018, but Mrs S said they only received one 
of these.
P later found out that Marsh hadnt passed the paperwork to the claims department.
The insurer declined the claim on the basis that P failed to notify it of the incident 
immediately, as required by the policy terms. The insurer also referred to P not passing on 
the letters sent in 2018. 
P complained to Marsh, saying it was at fault for the claim being declined. 
Mrs S says Marsh is to blame because it didnt notify the claims department about the claim  
in April 2018. P has had to pay compensation and costs to the injured person and would like 
Marsh to cover this.
Marsh didnt accept it was to blame, saying the insurers decision was based on Ps failure to 
notify it of the claim immediately. While Marsh accepted it hadnt passed the details on, it 
said this had only exacerbated the situation and the insurer would have rejected the claim 
anyway. 
Our investigator agreed that the insurers decision was based on the initial failure by P to 
notify the claim immediately to the insurer, so she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
P disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. On behalf of P, Mrs S says:
she believed the insurer was dealing with the claim, having been notified of it by 
Marsh;
the problems all came about as a result of Marsh not doing its job properly; and
the short delay in notification didnt cause any increased costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh is not responsible for dealing with claims on the policy  thats the role of the insurer. 
And it was the insurer that decided to reject the claim. But P says it was Marshs actions that 
led to that decision being made, so Ive considered whether Marsh is responsible for the fact 
the insurer rejected the claim.
The starting point is the policy terms. These say:
4) Notification of Claims
In the event of any occurrence which may give rise to a claim under this Policy You shall 
immediately:
a) give written notice with full particulars to Us including supporting documents and proofs.
b) forward to Us upon receipt every letter claim writ summons or process.
c) notify Us of any knowledge of any impending prosecution inquest fatal accident or ministry 
enquiry
Us is defined as the insurer. So P should have given written notice of the claim as soon as 
it was aware of the incident in March 2018.
The policy terms also say this is a condition precedent  in other words, its so important that 
unless this requirement is met, theres no cover for the claim.
Its not unusual for this type of policy to have a clause requiring the policyholder to inform the 
insurer as soon as they become aware of an event that may give rise to a claim. Insurers 
want to know about claims as soon as possible, so they can start investigating the 
circumstances and gathering information about what happened. 
Im satisfied P had received the policy terms. And I note the terms say at the very beginning:
Do not wait until You have a claim before You read and understand the Policy. Please 
read it now and keep it in a safe place
They also say the policyholder should make sure they understand the notes on how to 
make a claim 
I think its reasonable to expect a business like P to understand the main features of the 
insurance and their responsibilities relating to it, particularly given the warnings in the policy 
document
Marsh has admitted that it didnt send the documents to the claim department, but says  
even if had done so, the outcome would have been the same. 
Looking at the records of Ps contact with Marsh between 13 March 2018 (when the incident 
occurred) and 25 April 2018, there was a lot of contact through email correspondence and 
phone calls. This was mainly about the policy renewal, which was due at that time. P didnt 
make any mention of the incident until the call on 23 April, after receiving correspondence 
about it. 
As Ive said, the policy terms required P to contact the insurer directly. And it should have 
done this immediately, so this should have happened soon after the incident on 13 March. Instead, P waited until 25 April  around five weeks later  and then only contacted the 
broker, not the insurer.
I appreciate Mrs S says she notified Marsh of the claim once she had a letter confirming a 
claim was being made. But the policy terms are clear that P had to notify the insurer 
immediately it was aware of any incident that might lead to a claim. P was aware that 
someone had been injured. And in those circumstances it was likely a claim might be made.
I cant comment in this complaint on whether the insurer was right to decline the claim  that 
would need to be looked at separately. I can only consider whether that decision was caused 
by Marshs actions. To uphold this complaint, Id have to be satisfied there was a direct 
connection between Marshs failure to send the documents and the insurers decision. 
Looking at all the evidence Im not satisfied of that. The insurer declined the claim because P 
didnt notify it of the claim immediately. So even if Marsh had passed on the information at 
the end of April, its unlikely that would have made a difference.
I appreciate this has been a very difficult situation for P. I can see why Mrs S would be very 
upset by the fact Marsh didnt pass the information to the claims department. But this 
complaint is brought by P, which is a limited company. So I cant make an award for any 
distress suffered by Mrs S or any other individuals in P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman