DRN-4065455
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have failed to refund money 
that Mr A lost as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr A was contacted by someone who said they worked for a Bitcoin trading company that I 
will call B. From what I can see he made the following card payments to CRO, ST Julians 
MT which I understand is Crypto.com that were used to buy cryptocurrencies and were then 
forwarded onto B.
The payments made were as follows;
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 07/04/2021 CRO, ST Julians 
MT£203.26 £203.26
2 08/04/2021 CRO, ST Julians 
MT£125.82 £329.08
3 08/04/2021 CRO, ST Julians 
MT£3,699.99 £4,029.07
Mr A then tried to login to his account with B. But as Mr A was unable to do so, he realised 
he had been scammed.
Mr A raised a complaint with NatWest as he believed that NatWest should have stopped him 
from making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter they decided that the transactions were not 
sufficiently out of character to warrant an intervention by NatWest and that there was not 
other means of NatWest recovering the funds.
Mr A did not agree with this and therefore his complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr A authorised the disputed payments he made to Crypto.com using 
his NatWest debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers 
from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security 
credentials provided by NatWest, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether NatWest should have done more to prevent Mr A from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. However, having taken Mr As account activity and 
limited payment history into account, I do not think the payments he is disputing should have 
been regarded as particularly unusual.
I note that there was an intervention in relation to the first payment but that was limited to 
NatWest making sure the payment was authorised. I dont think that NatWest needed to do 
more.
The remaining payments were not of such a large amount that they would represent a 
significant deviation from what would be considered as usual activity. I accept that the last 
payment does represent a larger payment than Mr A usually made but not sufficiently so, in 
my opinion, to have necessitated an intervention from NatWest. 
So, having considered the payments Mr A made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered NatWests fraud monitoring systems (apart from the first 
payment being checked that it was genuine), or that would have indicated he was in the 
process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to have been any obligation on 
NatWest to have intervened any further
Ive also thought about whether NatWest did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr A 
lost, as there are some instances where debit card transactions can be refunded through 
making a chargeback claim. 
In this case, a chargeback would not have been successful, as the transactions Mr A used 
his debit card for was to pay Crytpo.com for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which he duly 
received. It was only when the cryptocurrency was transferred from his crypto wallet to the 
scammer did the loss then occur. So, he could not claim that he did not receive the goods or 
services paid for from his NatWest account, which was the purchase of the cryptocurrency. 
As a result, I dont think NatWest have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback 
claim here.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that NatWest can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman