DRN-2743322
The complaint
 Mr D complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement 
financed by Close Brothers Limited (CBL). 
 
What happened
 In October 2019 Mr D acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement. In 
February 2020 the car suffered an engine failure, and Mr D took it to a local garage. He 
contacted CBL on 5 February 2020 to ask them to pay for the required repairs as hed only 
had the car for about three months. He didnt feel that he should have to pay a large repair 
bill when hed had the car for a short amount of time. 
CBL arranged for the car to be inspected by an engineer. The report they received 
concluded that the failure was as a result of general wear and tear, and the type of use the 
vehicle had been subjected to since purchase. They told Mr D that they werent responsible 
for the fault. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr D. They thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied, and that Mr D should be able to reject it. 
CBL didnt agree with the investigators view. They said that there was expert testimony that 
the fault wasnt present at the time of supply. They commented on the modifications made to 
the vehicle whilst it was in Mr Ds possession. 
Mr D agreed with our investigators view but said that hed already paid around £2,000 for 
repairs based on the inspection that CBL completed, and so hed like to be reimbursed for 
that cost as well. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021 recommending that it was upheld. I 
made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement  so we 
can consider a complaint relating to it. CBL as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £12,000. It was ten years old 
and had travelled 44,500 miles at the time of supply. With this in mind, although there is an 
element of wear associated with the age of a vehicle, I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a cheaper, higher mileage, vehicle. 
CBL have carried out an inspection of the vehicle, which identified that there was damage to 
the high-pressure fuel pump and the camshaft, along with evidence of chain chatter. Mr D 
has had repairs completed to the fuel pump, at a cost of £2,028.48, but these have not 
resolved the problem. The engine will need more extensive work, which is estimated to be 
around £7,000. 
The inspection report concludes that the damage has been caused by general in-service 
wear and deterioration, contributed to by the type of use the vehicle has been subjected to. 
I asked CBL for any evidence that led the engineer to conclude that the type of use the 
vehicle had been subjected to had contributed to the fault. The engineers have said that they 
didnt intend this finding to mean that the vehicle had been subjected to any abnormal use. 
So, Im not persuaded that the fault has been caused by Mr Ds driving style. 
There have been some modifications made to the vehicle whilst in Mr Ds ownership. CBL 
have said that these show a behaviour of dismantling and altering engines, and that the 
modifications to Mr Ds car are used to make the vehicle sound sporty and more aggressive, 
so its reasonable to suggest that this results in harder driving of the car, leading to 
premature failure. 
I havent seen any evidence that the modifications were completed by Mr D himself. And 
when the engine failed, Mr D took his car to a garage to have it inspected. So, Im not 
persuaded that Mr D personally made modifications to his engine. 
I accept that the modifications are used to make the car sound more aggressive. But I dont 
think this necessarily means that the car has been driven harder. As the engineers have 
commented that the vehicle has not been subjected to any abnormal use, Im not persuaded 
that these modifications meant that Mr D drove his car harder, or that driving style 
contributed to the premature failure of parts in this case.
The engineer report notes that there have been repairs to the vehicle previously that have 
been done poorly. Its not clear if these were done prior to the supply of the vehicle to Mr D, 
or afterwards. But theres no suggestion that they are connected to or have contributed to 
the issue that Mr D is now experiencing. 
The engineer has commented that they saw no evidence that the fault was developing at 
point of sale, and had it been, they wouldve expected it to present itself after about 500 
miles, rather than the approximately 3,500 that Mr D had driven. This doesnt appear to have 
sufficient regard to whether the car was durable. The conclusion that the fault wasnt present 
at the time of supply doesnt deal with the fundamental issue of durability, where symptoms 
of a problem might occur later but still mean that parts have failed prematurely.  
In considering durability I have had regard to the age of the car, but I also note the overall 
low mileage for the age of the car (less than 46,000 miles at the time of failure) and a 
relatively significant purchase price to reflect this. All things considered, I dont think the 
reasonable person would expect the car to have suffered such catastrophic engine failure 
that results in the need for an overhaul of the engine. It seems that there was likely an overall issue with the vehicle which has led to a premature failure of parts. The issue doesnt 
appear to be one of normal wear and tear, nor have I seen any evidence that it was caused 
by driving style or third-party damage. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and 
therefore was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, CBL should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  
Mr D has had no use of his vehicle since February 2020. Mr D has already completed 
repairs to parts identified as being damaged by the engineer, which has not resolved the 
problem, and its not clear if the suggested extensive repairs will be successful, will be long 
lasting, or how long they might take to complete. So, its likely that Mr D will be put to 
significant inconvenience, in addition to that which hes already experienced, in arranging a 
repair when its not clear that it will be successful and further work and time might then be 
required to return the car to a satisfactory state. It would also mean that Mr D has to wait for 
an unknown period of time before he is able to drive his car again. 
All things considered, I think Mr D should be allowed his final right to reject the car. This 
means that the car is collected from Mr D, the finance agreement is brought to an end, and 
Mr D has his £500 deposit refunded (plus interest). The agreement and any adverse 
information should be removed from Mr Ds credit file. 
Mr D was able to use the car with no issues until its failure in February 2020, I think its fair 
that Mr D pays for the period he was able to use the vehicle, so CBL is able to retain the 
monthly payments that Mr D made prior to this.
I understand that Mr D stopped making his monthly payments shortly after the fault. Its not 
clear if hes made any recent payments to clear the arrears, but hes been unable to use the 
vehicle at all since the fault, so CBL should refund 100% of any payments made by Mr D 
which relates to use of the vehicle from 5 February 2020 (plus interest) and write off any 
outstanding arrears. 
Mr D has provided evidence that hes made a payment of £2,028.48 to the garage for repairs 
to the vehicle. These repairs were undertaken following the inspection by the engineer, and 
it was thought that they would return the vehicle to a driveable state. Unfortunately, the 
vehicle still wouldnt start after the repairs, and further tests led to the discovery that a more 
expensive engine overhaul would be requited. I think its reasonable for Mr D to have 
attempted these repairs. He was trying to mitigate his losses and return the car to a 
driveable condition. So, I think its fair that CBL reimburse Mr D for this cost. 
Finally, Mr D has been put to the inconvenience of having to arrange for repairs to his car, 
being unable to use his car and having to find alternative methods of transport and the 
distress of having arrears owning and potentially effecting his credit rating. CBL should pay 
Mr D £150 compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr D accepted my provisional decision. 
CBL havent responded to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As theres been no new information provided by either party for me to consider, I see no 
reason to change my decision from that outlined above.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Close Brothers Limited to: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr D
Refund Mr Ds deposit of £500. 
Refund 100% of the monthly rental payments made by Mr D that relate to use of the 
car from 5 February 2020.
Waive any outstanding arrears. 
Refund Mr D £2,028.48 for the cost of repairs to the vehicle 
Pay Mr D £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove the finance agreement and any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. 
CBL should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. 
If CBL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman