DRN-3683688
The complaint
Mr G complains that eToro (UK) Ltd closed his open positions without his consent.
What happened
Mr G had a CFD trading account with eToro. In September 2021 eToro told Mr G that it will 
be closing his account and gave him until 6 December 2021 to close his remaining positions.
Mr G complained when his positions were closed as he believes eToro did this unfairly. Mr G 
feels eToro closed his account because hed raised complaints.
Our Investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She explained that eToro had 
closed Mr Gs account in line with the agreement he had with it. She also felt it was 
appropriate for eToro to allow Mr G to use the platform prior to it closing his account.
Mr G disagreed. He doesnt feel eToro acted fairly in closing his account and asked for an 
Ombudsman to reach a decision. He also mentioned that eToro has said it didnt think CFD 
trading was appropriate for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
eToro told Mr G the reason it was closing his account. Specifically it said:
Since we understand that our platform does not provide you with the service you expect and 
you do not accept the way the platform works, we can no longer allow you to open new 
trades or deposit funds into your account.
It is important to mention that this is not due to the current matter you have complained 
about, but rather a general misalignment between our services and your expectations.
eToro gave this notice on 22 September 2021 and gave Mr G until 6 December 2021  
around two and a half months  to close his positions. Ive looked at the agreement that Mr 
G has with eToro  this says, at section 26.4 that it may terminate Mr Gs account if it 
decides to stop providing him with services.
Im satisfied that eToro has acted in line with its terms when deciding to no longer offer 
services to Mr G, and Im satisfied it gave him reasonable notice to close his positions. I can 
also see it told Mr G the reason for doing so. Mr G doesnt accept this reason, and believes it 
is because of his complaints. Its worth noting that eToro doesnt have an obligation to 
provide services to Mr G and its chosen to stop doing so here. But I will say that from the 
correspondence Ive seen, Mr G didnt accept the way the platform worked  when eToro 
provided its explanation for issues Mr G encountered, he didnt feel it was accurate. So, I 
think its reasonable to say there was a misalignment between eToros services and Mr Gs 
expectations.
Contrary to what Mr G has recently said to us, I cant see anything to suggest that eToro 
thought CFD trading was inappropriate for Mr G. Im also satisfied from the evidence eToro 
has provided that CFD trading was appropriate for Mr G, and that eToro carried out its 
regulatory duties in ensuring Mr G was aware of the risks.
Mr G is upset that when his positions closed, they closed at a loss. Its important to note that 
the reason Mr G has suffered a loss is because the market moved against him for those 
positions. The loss was crystalised because the positions closed. Ive already explained that 
eToro hasnt done anything wrong in deciding to stop providing services to Mr G, so it 
follows that its not liable for any losses Mr G experienced when his positions closed.
Mr G has also mentioned that hes unhappy his funds were paid into his bank account 
without his consent. As his account with eToro closed, I dont think its unreasonable that his 
funds were returned to his bank account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman