DRN-2731356
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with how IGO4 Limited (IGO4) dealt with her request to cancel a motor 
insurance policy.
Any reference to IGO4 includes its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here and Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell IGO4 that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I uphold Miss Ps complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that IGO4 calculated the refund due to Miss P after cancelation 
incorrectly. Whilst I accept what IGO4 have said about this situation coming about 
because of their earlier positive decision to allow Miss P to change her payments to 
monthly, it was still their later error to refund her money that she wasnt owed. IGO4 
also accept that there were issues when cancelling the credit agreement. 
Its a positive step that IGO4 offered to remove the £65 cancelation fee that would 
normally be due under the policy terms where a customer cancels a policy outside of 
the cooling off period. As IGO4 have chosen to remove it, I wouldnt seek to interfere 
with their decision. 
When considering the impact on Miss P, its my opinion that IGO4s errors have 
caused Miss P some trouble and upset  at what was already a challenging time for 
her. 
IGO4 have referred in correspondence to our investigator about our service being 
inconsistent with our awards. But Im only looking at the facts of this case alongside 
our established approach to non-financial loss in complaints, and have concluded 
that an award of £50 for the trouble and upset IGO4s errors have caused to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate here to the impact of IGO4s errors. 
I can understand why Miss P may have ended up using the refunded money  
particularly given what shes told us about her financial circumstances around that 
time. I dont support IGO4s view that Miss P should reasonably have been aware 
that this was an overpayment to her. Ultimately I find in this case that she is the 
customer and had no reason to doubt the refund being issued. IGO4 were the 
experts in this relationship. 
However, it remains that this was money Miss P wasnt owed and will need to pay 
back to IGO4. If Miss P is experiencing financial difficulty, IGO4 should treat her 
positively and sympathetically here. Our investigator has suggested a repayment 
plan or agreement between both parties, and I consider that fair and reasonable in 
this case.
Had things happened as they should have; the incorrect amount wouldnt have been 
refunded and the subsequent issues likely avoided. I dont make any further award 
for any direct financial impact Miss P has told us about. For example, shes 
mentioned that this situation caused her to go into an overdraft - but not provided any 
evidence of a financial loss.  
 
Putting things right
I direct IG04 Limited to pay Miss P £50 for any trouble and upset caused by how theyve 
handled things when this policy was cancelled.
Miss P can also now make arrangements with IG04 Limited to either repay what theyve said 
is the outstanding balance of £350.62 in full, or through an agreed repayment plan  if she 
hasnt already done so. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman