DRN-3193972
The complaint
Ms A says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she was already 
experiencing financial hardship when these loans were approved. And so, she 
couldnt easily make the repayments. She thinks Morses shouldve seen this and not 
lent to her.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms As complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. These form 
part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Ms A between October 
2015 and June 2017. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the 
table below.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 06/10/2015 £200.00 20 23/02/2016
2 12/01/2016 £200.00 33 21/07/2016
3 21/07/2016 £200.00 33 01/08/2016
4 15/11/2016 £400.00 33 01/06/2017
5 01/06/2017 £600.00 33 outstanding
I understand that loan 3 was repaid within the 14 day cooling off period. So, it was 
considered as being cancelled. Morses records show that Ms A didnt pay any interest to 
this loan.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Morses was acting incorrectly 
when it approved loans 1 to 4. But he thought that the lending pattern was harmful by loan 5 and 
it was likely that Ms A was dependent on this lending. And so, Morses shouldnt have approved 
this loan.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the checks it made showed that the 
loans were affordable and Ms A didnt have any significant repayment problems until loan 5. It 
said that approving five loans in 19 months wasnt excessive and there was a gap of three 
months between loans 3 and 4.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Im currently minded not to uphold Ms As complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Ms A provided when she completed her loan 
application. Ms A said she had an average weekly income of £425 and she had regular 
weekly outgoings of £125. The weekly loan repayments varied between £10 and £30, 
depending on the amount borrowed and whether Ms A was making repayments to more than 
one loan at a time. But I think its reasonable to say that Morses wouldve concluded from 
this information that Ms A provided that she could afford the loan repayments.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms A mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further.
It could have been that by loan 5 Morses should have been looking in more detail at Ms As 
circumstances. But Ms A hasnt provided me with any information to show what Morses 
wouldve likely seen if it had done better checks. So, I cant reasonably say that Morses 
shouldve said that it wasnt responsible to approve this lending.
And, I think it was likely reasonable for Morses to rely on the information it obtained.
Our adjudicator said that the lending pattern itself showed that Ms A was struggling financially and 
that she was likely to be reliant on the lending at loan 5. But the repayments seem reasonable. And 
whist there is some increase in the borrowing these loans still looked affordable. And looking at the 
account statements Morses has provided it seems that Ms A wasnt having any obvious, or 
significant, problems making her repayments until after she took loan 5.
I agree that 19 months is a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit. But there was a 
break of around three months within this period. So, taking everything into consideration I dont 
think this means the lending was unsustainable in this case. So, I dont think its reasonable to 
say that Ms A was reliant on this lending and it wasnt causing her significant problems when 
Morses approved the loans.
So overall, in these circumstances, Im currently minded to think the assessments Morses did for these loans were proportionate. And I currently think its decisions to lend for loans 1 to 5 
were reasonable. Im not intending to uphold Ms As complaint about them.
Morses, and Ms A, received my provisional decision. And neither one had anything to add 
after theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Ms A didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I still dont think that 
Morses lent irresponsibly here. I wont add anything further to my provisional decision as no 
one has commented on what I said. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman