DRN-4151342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down their 
buildings insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R hold buildings insurance cover with Ageas. They made a claim after a pipe 
leaked that was their responsibility (though it was on their neighbours land).
Ageas turned down the claim. It thought the pipe had leaked because it was in poor 
condition due to wear and tear. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs R brought a complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Ageas decision to 
turn down the claim had been reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
Well pay claims for the cost of repairing the fabric of cables, underground pipes, drains and 
tanks serving your home, if theyre accidentally broken.
The policy also says that Ageas doesnt pay claims for wear and tear.
Ive read an email written by the water company that attended the leak. They said the leak 
occurred due to the freezing conditions. And that due to the condition of the pipework, they 
would advise for the service to be renewed to prevent further problems.
Ive also read Ageas agents report. This said the steel pipework was found to be in poor 
condition due to age related wear and tear. It was noted a section of the pipe was exposed 
as the ground above it had washed away. So they exposed another area of pipe which 
confirmed that the pipe was no longer for purpose.
Mr and Mrs R say the pipe wasnt exposed, and that this only happened when the water leak 
washed away the soil. 
Two inspections have been carried out, though the evidence from the water company is 
particularly brief. On balance, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to rely on its agents 
opinion to turn down the claim. The water company attended to see if there was a leak and 
of course wasnt considering the matter from an insurance perspective. Given that the pipe 
was found to be in such poor condition, it seems likely that the freezing conditions simply 
highlighted that there was wear and tear to the pipe. 
Im therefore satisfied it was reasonable for Ageas to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman