DRN-1874486
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a medical 
expenses claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs M took out a travel insurance policy online through a price comparison 
website to cover a forthcoming trip. Mrs and Mr M travelled abroad as theyd planned. 
Unfortunately, while they were away, Mr M began to suffer from chest pain and shortness of 
breath. He sought medical treatment at a local hospital. Ultimately, Mrs and Mr M were able 
to return home on their pre-booked flight. They made a claim for Mr Ms medical expenses.
IPA investigated the claim. It noted that the medical certificate completed by Mr Ms GP 
stated that Mr M had suffered from asthma for around 15 years, which was treated by 
medication. It said that during the online sales process, Mrs M had been asked whether 
anyone the policy covered had any pre-existing medical conditions (including asthma). Mrs 
M had answered no and had been able to go ahead to buy the policy. But it said she 
shouldve answered yes. 
IPA said that if Mrs M had correctly answered yes to this question, she wouldnt have been 
able to buy this policy. Thats because it didnt cover any pre-existing medical conditions at 
all. It said she wouldve been directed to buy a different policy which did cover medical 
conditions. So it turned down Mrs and Mr Ms claim and refunded the premiums theyd paid 
for the policy.
Mrs and Mr M were unhappy with IPAs decision and they complained. Mrs M accepted 
shed answered no to IPAs question, but said shed made an honest mistake. And they felt 
that because the claim wasnt directly linked to Mr Ms asthma, it should be paid. They 
added that when they now applied for a policy online, theyd answered yes to IPAs 
question. Theyd been offered the same branded policy that Mrs M had bought in April 2019, 
which would cover Mr Ms asthma for a higher price. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs and Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She accepted that 
Mrs M hadnt sought to mislead IPA about Mr Ms medical condition. But she thought that 
Mrs M had answered a clear question incorrectly. And she was satisfied that if Mrs M had 
told IPA that Mr M had a pre-existing medical condition, it would never have offered her this 
particular policy. So she felt it was fair for IPA to turn down the claim and refund the 
premiums Mrs and Mr M had paid.
Mrs and Mr M disagreed. In summary, they said that Mrs M had made a careless mistake. 
They didnt agree that IPA wouldnt have offered them cover if itd known about Mr Ms 
asthma, as it still did go on to offer an alternative insurance policy, albeit at a higher price. 
They referred to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 and 
the remedies available to insurers under the act. They felt that if Mr Ms asthma had been 
declared, IPA wouldve charged them a higher premium and so a proportionate award 
should be paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think IPA has treated Mrs and Mr M fairly. Ill explain why.
When Mrs M took out the policy online, she was asked information about herself and Mr M, 
their trip and whether they had any medical conditions. IPA used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Mrs and Mr M and if so, on what terms.
IPA says that Mrs M didnt correctly answer a question about whether or not she or Mr M 
had any existing medical conditions. This means the principles set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its 
fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ms claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to correctly answer 
an insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at 
what Mrs M was asked when she took out the policy.
Mrs M bought the policy through a comparison website. IPA has provided us with some 
screenshots which show what happened at the time of sale. One screen asked:
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition? 
This screen included an information box underneath which said: 
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip, its important you tell us about your medical 
history. If you do not declare medical conditions this may invalidate your policy. Examples 
include diabetes; high blood pressure; depression and respiratory conditions (including 
asthma).
Mrs M had to either answer yes or no to this question. Mrs M answered no and so she was 
directed to the policy she went on to buy. This policy didnt include any cover at all for any 
pre-existing medical conditions. If Mrs M had answered yes, shed have been directed to a 
policy which did provide cover for pre-existing conditions.
IPA says Mrs M shouldve answered yes to this question, because Mr M suffered from long-
term asthma. So Ive looked at Mr Ms medical records and thought about whether Mrs M 
took reasonable care to answer the question she was asked.
Mr Ms GP said Mr M had been diagnosed with asthma in 2004 and had suffered from it for 
15 years. The notes show Mr Ms prescribed with two different inhaler medications. Mrs M 
accepts she knew about Mr Ms asthma. And I think the information immediately underneath 
the question clearly explained the types of conditions IPA was asking about. It also 
specifically mentioned asthma.So I think the question was sufficiently clear that it shouldve prompted Mrs M to answer yes 
to it. If shed done so, its clear that IPA would never have sold Mrs M this particular policy. 
This means I think Mrs M did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think 
IPA is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. 
Both Mrs M and IPA accept Mrs Ms misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate 
or reckless. CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldnt have 
entered into the contract at all, its entitled to avoid the policy (cancel it as if it never existed) 
and return the premiums to the policyholder. Thats whats happened in this case. IPA 
wouldnt have entered into this particular contract with Mrs M and its returned her premium. 
So I think its reasonably applied the remedy available to it under the Act.
I appreciate Mrs M has been able to find a similar policy with IPA if shed answered yes to 
the question on the comparison website, which wouldve covered Mr Ms asthma at a higher 
price. So she thinks it would be fair for IPA to proportionately settle her claim based on what 
she wouldve paid had she bought the right policy and entered into a different contract. Ive 
thought about this. And I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position. 
But I think IPA has dealt with the claim fairly and appropriately based on the remedy 
available to it under CIDRA. This means that I think it was fair for IPA to turn down Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim, avoid their policy and refund their premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman