DRN-2093840
The complaint
Mrs F complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Mrs F says she was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused her financial problems. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this case in July 2020 explaining that Mrs F had taken 
out 19 instalment loans between May 2015 and September 2018. I also comprehensively 
explained why I was intending to uphold her complaint in relation loan numbers 5  19.
My provisional decision should be read in conjunction with this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Following the issuing of my provisional decision, both parties wrote to me about what Id 
said. Mrs F accepted my findings. Mr Lender didnt agree with what Id said and said it was 
prepared to otherwise settle the complaint. 
However, Mr Lender has merely repeated what it had already said before in this case. And 
its suggestion to uphold from the point of loan number 10 is a repeated version of what it told 
our adjudicator several months ago. In my view, there is nothing at all thats new in Mr 
Lenders response to my provisional decision. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Ive got reason to change what I think, so Im upholding the complaint as 
outlined in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I direct Mr Lender to:
refund all interest and charges Mrs F paid on loans 5 - 19;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Fs credit file in relation to loan 
5;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 - 19 should be completely 
removed from Mrs Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs F a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs Fs complaint and order PDL Finance Limited to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman