DRN-2709032
Complaint
Mr C says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) previously Egg, mis-sold 
him a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2000. The policy was taken out at the 
same time as Mr C applied for a credit card. It gave him life, accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Canada Square should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional 
and gained Mr Cs consent before adding it to his credit card. But Mr C has said that he was 
not advised correctly when he took out the PPI. More recently, he says he recalls calling 
Canada Square at the time of completing the credit card application form because there 
were a number of pre-ticked boxes on it. Mr C says he was told he had a better chance of 
his application for the credit card being approved if he took out PPI. He added that at the 
time he was building up his credit rating and he was going to miss a purchase he needed to 
make if the card was not approved quickly.
Canada Square hasnt been able to provide the actual application form Mr C completed 
online. But this isnt surprising given the sale took place over 21 years ago. But it has 
provided a sample copy of the online application form it says Mr C would have seen when 
applying for his credit card and PPI. And it has provided copies of the electronic records it 
has retained which are specific to Mr Cs application. 
Looking at the copy of the application form, I can see Mr C could have chosen Yes to 
protect his repayments with PPI or No if he didnt want to take it out. Canada Square has 
said that a customer had to select either Yes or No to taking out PPI in order to progress 
with their application. I think both options were given equal prominence. And there is nothing 
to make me think the Yes option was pre-ticked. In addition to providing these, its 
electronic records show that Mr C selected Yes to taking out PPI at the time of application.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C has said about speaking with Canada Square during 
the application process and being told he would have a better chance of the application 
being accepted if he took out PPI. But Canada Square doesnt have any record of any 
contact with Mr C prior to the sale. Whilst Ive thought about what Mr C has said, I still think 
its more likely than not that he agreed to the PPI knowing he had a choice. Based on the 
available information, I cant see anything to suggest Mr C had to take the PPI out or that the 
application form didnt make it clear as to what Mr C was signing up for. In the section for the 
PPI, it does explain it is optional. If Mr C didnt want the PPI, I wouldnt have expected him to 
have selected Yes for the PPI. 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But Canada Square did have to give Mr C enough information about the policy, so 
he could decide if he wanted to take it or not. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr C was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical 
conditions. I also have seen anything to say the policy wasnt affordable for Mr C. 
Mr C has told us she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work and he believes his job came with 
some additional short-term and long-term disability cover. In addition to this, he says he had 
between £5,000 and £6,000 in savings which was earmarked for a house deposit. Hes also 
told us that he was living with family members at the time of the sale, who would have 
helped him out financially.
Having thought about what Mr C has said about his sick pay and his savings, I dont think 
this means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr C would have received from his employer and would 
have potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit if Mr C was ever made redundant and in the event of death. In addition, 
the PPI would have enabled Mr C to use his savings for its intended purpose  as a deposit 
for a house.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about living with family members and being able to rely 
on them to help him with his repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
useful for him. While Mr Cs family members may have wanted to help, their financial 
situation could change, so this help couldnt always be relied on.
Finally, Ive thought about what Mr C has told us about having another short and long-term 
disability cover provided through his employer. Mr C has said he has no idea what this 
covered or what the conditions of this policy were. In order for me to uphold his complaint on 
this point, I would need to see persuasive evidence that Mr C already had a duplicate or 
similar policy to the cover provided by the PPI policy. Because Mr C hasnt been able to 
provide us with any further information about the cover, I havent seen enough to persuade 
me on balance that the PPI wouldnt have been useful to him.
So overall, I think Mr C could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman