DRN-3220816
The complaint
Mr B complains that BUPA Insurance Limited wont offer him a personal private medical 
insurance policy which covers his pre-existing medical history.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr B joined a group private medical insurance policy which provided 
cover for retirees of a company Ill call H. In 2019, he paid around £162 for the policy; in 
2020, he paid around £234 and in 2021, he paid around £284. 
Mr B was unhappy with the increases in his premium. He referred also to the impact of 
Covid-19 on policy cover. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-19, 
private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. Policy 
benefits were therefore limited for a temporary period while private facilities assisted the 
NHS, as non-urgent treatments werent being prioritised.  
BUPA told Mr B it considered his premiums had been calculated fairly and that all of the 
other members of Hs retirees scheme were paying the same premium. It acknowledged 
that Covid-19 had had an impact on access to some private medical facilities. It said that it 
was committed to passing back any exceptional financial benefit to its members  which 
could be through a rebate, or other means. It later paid Mr B a rebate equivalent to one 
months premium.
Mr B decided to cancel his policy, which ended on 1 February 2021. A couple of weeks later, 
BUPA sent Mr B a letter which said that it may be able to offer him a new policy with ongoing 
cover for his medical conditions, if he took out such a policy within three months of the old 
policy ending. So Mr B called BUPA to look into taking out a new, personal policy with 
continuing medical cover. He said that when he explained the reasons for leaving the 
retirees scheme, BUPA told him that he wasnt eligible for continuous medical cover. It told 
him hed need to take out a new policy on a moratorium basis.
Unhappy with BUPAs administration of his old policy and that it wouldnt offer continuing 
medical cover, Mr B asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He felt the evidence showed 
that BUPA had calculated Mr Bs premiums fairly. He didnt think the terms of Mr Bs policy 
entitled him to any refund of premium because of the impact of Covid-19 on private medical 
facilities. And he noted that Mr B had accepted the rebate of one months premium. He 
looked at the letter BUPA had sent Mr B in February 2021. He didnt think BUPA had made 
any promise to Mr B that it would continue to cover his medical conditions. And he felt BUPA 
was entitled to decide whether or not to offer insurance cover. So he didnt think BUPA 
needed to take any action.
Mr B accepted the investigators assessment of his complaint points regarding the policy 
premiums and the impact of Covid-19 on his ability to make full use of the policy. But he 
didnt agree that itd been fair for BUPA to decline to offer him a new policy with full medical 
cover. In summary, he was unhappy that BUPA hadnt even considered moving him to a 
new policy providing continuous cover once it knew the reason for him leaving the retirees 
scheme. He didnt think the letter made it clear that there were occasions when BUPA 
couldnt transfer cover  if there had been, hed have been more prepared for rejection.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I dont think BUPA has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, as Mr B has accepted the investigators findings relating to the increases in his policy 
premium and the impact of Covid-19 on his ability to use the policy, I dont need to make a 
finding on those points here. So I havent considered those issues as a part of this decision. 
The only issue I have looked at is whether it was fair for BUPA to decline to offer Mr B a 
policy which provided continuing cover for his medical conditions, after he left the retirees 
group scheme.
It's important I make it clear that we are not the industry regulator. That means we have no 
power to tell a financial business how it should operate or to change its procedures. We cant 
tell an insurer how it should assess the risk of a policyholder making a claim, what factors it 
should take into account when doing so or whether or not it should offer cover at all. Those 
are commercial decisions which an insurer is reasonably entitled to make. What I can do 
though is check whether BUPA exercised its commercial discretion fairly and didnt single Mr 
B out in any way.
Theres no dispute that Mr B chose to leave the retirees scheme, which did cover his pre-
existing medical history. Its also clear that BUPA wrote to Mr B, on 15 February 2021, to 
explain that it could potentially offer him a new policy with continuing full medical cover. The 
letter said:
Your company health insurance ended on 01/02/2021, but our support for you can continue. 
You have the option to stay with us on a new personal policy. While your cover will be 
different, we may continue to cover any ongoing or existing conditions if you take out your 
new policy within three months of your company health insurance ending. This depends on 
your new policys benefits and limitations. Just give us a call and well explain how it works. 
(Emphasis added).
Ive looked closely at the letter. While it did provide Mr B with the option to remain with 
BUPA, I think the use of the word may makes it clear that theres no guarantee that it will 
offer a new personal policy with continuous medical cover. I dont find that the letter 
suggests that BUPA will offer new continuous medical cover in all circumstances. So while I 
can understand why Mr B was disappointed when he learned this particular option wasnt 
available to him, I dont think that this letter was misleading. Id also add that as Mr B had 
already left the retirees scheme before he received this letter, he didnt cancel any cover he 
was already benefiting from as a result of it. So while I acknowledge he felt disappointed by 
BUPAs decision, I dont think he lost out financially.
And as I understand it, Mr B was offered the option of a new personal policy, on a 
moratorium basis. So BUPA did offer Mr B the option to remain with it, albeit on a new policy 
that excluded any pre-existing medical conditions hed suffered from within a specified 
period of time. I can understand why Mr B would prefer to have his existing medical history covered, but Im satisfied Mr B did have the choice to take up a new moratorium policy with 
BUPA if hed wished to.
I asked BUPA to explain why it was unable to offer Mr B continuous cover. Im afraid its 
evidence is business sensitive and therefore, its confidential. This means I cant share it with 
Mr B. However, what I can tell him is that the evidence shows he wasnt eligible to transfer to 
a new policy which provided full medical cover. And it shows that BUPA wouldve treated 
any of its other customers in Mr Bs circumstances in the same way. So I dont find that 
BUPA has singled out Mr B unfairly.
Overall then, while I appreciate Mr B was disappointed by BUPAs decision, I dont think its 
caused him to lose out in any way. And Im satisfied it was entitled to decline to offer Mr B 
continuous medical cover. So Im not telling BUPA to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman