DRN-4370580
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the service provided by Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as 
Hastings Direct when purchasing car insurance. 
Mr Is representative has also made comments that Ive considered when reaching an 
outcome on this complaint. For ease of reference I have referred to Mr I throughout this final 
decision. 
What happened
While searching for car insurance online, Mr I found a quote with Hastings and contacted 
Hastings to discuss a policy he was interested in buying. Mr I asked the Hastings 
representative whether the policy hed found included a telematics device. He was told it 
didnt. Mr I went ahead and purchased the policy.
Mr I was sent policy documents. On review of this information he realised that the policy hed 
been sold included a telematics device being fitted on his car. Mr I complained to Hastings 
about the sale of the policy. Mr I also complained about the time taken to get through to a 
Hastings representative to discuss his concerns, and the service provided in general.
In resolution of his complaint, Mr I asked for Hastings to cancel the policy hed been sold and 
instead sell him a policy without the telematics device at the same cost. Hastings told Mr I 
that the online process did clearly explain what type of policy Mr I would be purchasing. But 
the adviser couldve done more to make this clear to Mr I. 
Hastings also explained they wouldnt be able to sell Mr I another policy at the same cost 
because a policy with a telematics device included is competitively priced due to Hastings 
being able to monitor driving behaviours. Hastings informed Mr I that he could cancel his 
policy before the telematics device was due to take effect, and he would not need to declare 
the cancellation going forward to any future insurers. Hastings also said Mr I would not be 
charged a cancellation fee. Hastings paid Mr I £200 in recognition of the impact on Mr I 
because of their service failings.
Mr I subsequently cancelled his insurance policy, but remained unhappy with the response 
from Hastings, and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The 
investigator found that the £200 offered was reasonable compensation for the impact on Mr 
I, and didnt recommend Hastings do anything more in settlement of Mr Is complaint. 
Mr I rejected these findings saying (amongst other things) Before concluding a final 
response. I'd like to go through this thoroughly making sure every single detail has been 
captured and reviewed including emails and call transcripts.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr I for taking the time to explain everything thats happened when taking out 
insurance with Hastings. I understand it has been a stressful time for Mr I. Id like to reassure 
the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this complaint, so not 
everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided.
Mr I feels strongly that Hastings have treated him unfairly by refusing to compensate him for 
the additional premium he has had to pay. Mr I also says Hastings have not offered 
reasonable compensation for the stress and upset caused to him because of his dealings 
with them. Hastings say that the offer theyve made to put things right is reasonable. 
Hastings say they wouldnt offer to reimburse the cost of a new policy purchased by Mr I 
without a telematics device, as this type of policy would generally be more expensive.
Its not disputed that Mr Is decision to purchase insurance was impacted directly by what he 
was told by a Hastings representative. When we find that that there has been poor service 
caused by something that a business did (or failed to do), wed usually recommend that the 
business takes steps to put things right, so that the customer is put back into the position 
they wouldve been in (in so far as is possible), had the poor service not happened. 
In this case, if Mr I had been correctly informed that the policy he was purchasing included a 
telematics device, then more likely than not, he would not have gone ahead with the 
purchase. Ive considered this alongside the offer made by Hastings to put things right 
following Mr Is complaint. 
Hastings offered to cancel Mr Is policy at no cost to him. They also confirmed to Mr I that he 
wouldnt have to disclose this cancellation going forward to any future insurers. Hastings 
also offered Mr C £200 in recognition of the inconvenience and upset caused to him 
because of what had happened, and overall poor service provided. This amount was also in 
recognition of what Mr I had explained about the difficulty in speaking to a Hastings 
representative when trying to make a complaint about the policy that hed been sold. 
When thinking about whats happened, including what Mr I has explained about the impact 
on him, and the time timescale in which Mr Is complaint was resolved, I think the £200 
offered is reasonable and broadly in line with what wed recommend in the circumstances. 
This amount takes into consideration the upset caused to Mr I in taking out insurance that he 
didnt want (because of what he was told by a Hastings representative), but also that 
Hastings logged Mr Is concerns and provided options to put things right within two weeks of 
receiving Mr Is complaint. 
Mr I has now been put back into the position he wouldve been in had he not purchased the 
insurance policy with Hastings in the first place. I do accept what Mr I has said about the 
stress caused to him. But I am satisfied Hastings offer to put things right is reasonable. The 
offer of compensation reflects the trouble caused to Mr I but also considers the time in which 
the complaint was resolved. I havent seen any evidence of further aggravating factors which 
would indicate that this amount should be increased. Because of this, I wont be asking 
Hastings to do anything more in settlement of this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman