DRN-2079559
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain that their remortgage to another lender was delayed by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc which meant that they had to pay the higher rate on the HSBC mortgage for two 
months of £348.20 together with the fees of £120 to obtain their title deeds from another 
solicitor. Mr and Mrs Z want HSBC to repay them £470.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Z had a mortgage with HSBC on a two-year fixed rate product which was 
coming to the end of its term on 30 June 2019 and wished to transfer their mortgage to 
another lender. Mr and Mrs Zs solicitor asked HSBC for the title deeds to their property. 
HSBC requested the solicitor to get Mr and Mrs Z to sign a letter authorising the transfer of 
the deeds to their solicitor. HSBC then told Mr and Mrs Z s solicitor that they didnt have any 
title deeds. 
Mr and Mrs Z say that they were forced to go to their previous solicitor to get the title deeds 
at a cost and causing further delays. Mr and Mrs Z redeemed the HSBC mortgage at the 
beginning of August 2019 but had to pay the extra interest over a two-month period of 
£348.20 and had to go to their previous solicitors to get the title deeds with the cost of that. 
Our investigator believed that HSBC had acted in a timely manner and that there was no 
evidence that HSBC provided their solicitor with inaccurate information. Mr and Mrs Z 
disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Z wanted to transfer their mortgage to another lender and wanted to do it by 30 
June 2019. As this didnt happen, they blame HSBC for not identifying that it didnt hold their 
title deeds at an earlier stage than it did. Their complaint appears to be based on the 
assumption that getting the title deeds was necessary before the new lender could provide 
them with a mortgage. That isnt obvious to me. HSBC says that it didnt have the title deeds 
but had been able to effect a mortgage on Mr and Mrs Zs property. Thats because Mr and 
Mrs Zs property is registered on the Land Register and the Land Register is the definitive 
record of the ownership of land not the title deeds. So, the title deeds arent required to show 
that Mr and Mrs Z own their property. 
I note that although Mr and Mrs Zs solicitors in an email to them of 30 June 2019 make the 
point that HSBC gave them incorrect information about the title deeds, they dont say that 
HSBCs failure to provide the title deeds was the reason for the delay in completing the 
remortgage. Mr and Mrs Z have made that assumption, but they have produced no evidence 
for it. So, as no link has been established between the delay in providing information about 
the title deeds and the delay in the re-mortgage, I would find it difficult to uphold this 
complaint.
But I have looked at the sequence of correspondence between Mr and Mrs Zs solicitors to 
see if there was unreasonable delay by HSBC. As far as I can see looking at HSBCs notes 
and a memo from Mr and Mrs Zs solicitor, the following happened:
On 24 May the solicitors sent a request for the title deeds.
On 31 May HSBC contacted the solicitors by phone without response
On 3 June HSBC asked Mr and Mrs Zs solicitors for a Letter of Authority (LOA) from Mr 
and Mrs Z to release the title deeds.
On 19 June Mr and Mrs Zs solicitors faxed to HSBC the LOA.
On 20 June HSBC wrote a letter saying they didnt hold pre-registration title deeds. 
Looking at this sequence, HSBC seems to have responded promptly to the solicitors initial 
request by phoning the solicitor on 31 May. When HSBC then got the LOA, it turned around 
its response within a day although it took the post a longer time to deliver it. The longest gap 
in the process appears to be between 3 June when HSBC asked by phone for the LOA and 
Mr and Mrs Z solicitor sending it to HSBC on 19 June and I cant blame that delay on HSBC.
Mr and Mrs Z are concerned that HSBC told their solicitor that it had the title deeds but didnt 
and that the process was a waste of precious time and have questioned why HSBC required 
this LOA. As regards the latter point, HSBC would seem to have a procedure whereby it 
requires the formal authority of the mortgage holder to transfer their documents to another 
party. I can see that it offers the mortgage holder a level of protection, particularly if there 
were joint mortgage holders and I cant say that that is unreasonable. 
There is then a question of what was said by someone in HSBC on 3 June. Mr and Mrs Zs 
solicitor says that they were told in that conversation that HSBC had the deeds. HSBCs note 
of 3 June refers to asking for a LOA but not that it confirmed that it held the title deeds. So, 
there is a dispute as to what was said in that call of 3 June. A reasonable assumption is that 
the HSBC employee may have assumed that they held the pre-registration title deeds, asked 
for a LOA and then when the LOA came in, a search was made, and it was discovered that 
HSBC didnt have those documents. Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Zs solicitors werent 
made aware of this before the 26 June but as I said above part of that delay wasnt the fault 
of HSBC.
  
The question is how did this affect Mr and Mrs Zs ability to complete their remortgage by 30 
June? As stated earlier Ive not been provided with any evidence that it did have an effect. I 
see that HSBC provided redemption statements to Mr and Mrs Zs solicitors on several 
occasions, but Ive not been told by Mr and Mrs Z or their solicitor why the remortgage 
couldnt complete on any of those occasions. I believe its reasonable to assume that as the 
title was registered in the Land Registers that the absence of the pre-registration title deeds 
shouldnt have prevented the re-mortgage.  
In the event that it did, I believe that some of the delay in ascertaining the whereabouts of 
the deeds wasnt the fault of HSBC and that in any case HSBC was entitled to follow its 
procedures following requests for pre-registration title deeds. In those circumstances, I cant 
reasonably conclude that HSBC has been responsible for an unreasonable delay that 
affected Mr and Mrs Zs remortgage and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I note that Mr 
and Mrs Z have also complained about some of the phone calls they had with HSBC but as 
our investigator explained, as this wasnt part of their original complaint against HSBC, I 
havent considered these as part of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman