DRN-3359408
The complaint
Mr B complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Highway or the insurer, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I 
hold Highway responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a premium-brand car, first registered in 
2015. Mr B acquired the car in 2020 on a finance agreement.
For the year from 19 September 2020, Mr B had a Highway policy for the car through a 
broker. Mr B was serving in the armed forces.
From about March 2021, Mr B began taking work for a security company. In September 
2021, he renewed the policy.
Shortly after renewing the policy, Mr B was, unfortunately, involved in an accident. He made 
a claim to Highway. Mr B reported that he had been on his way home after a security job 
when the accident happened.
Highway arranged for his vehicle to go to its repairer. But Highway said that Mr B hadnt 
disclosed his second occupation in security. And Highway said it wouldnt have renewed the 
policy if Mr B had disclosed that occupation. So Highway said that it was treating the policy 
as void from the start and turning down Mr Bs claim.
Mr B complained to Highway. By a final response dated October 2021, Highway turned 
down the complaint. Mr B brought his complaint to us in mid-November 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She referred to the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). She thought 
that Mr B had made a careless misrepresentation. She didnt think that the insurer had acted 
unfairly or outside the policy terms by voiding the policy.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The insurer does offer motor insurance to drivers whose occupation is security.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a renewal letter from the broker to Mr B. It said that the policy wouldnt renew 
automatically, and he had to contact the broker. The letter enclosed the brokers terms of 
business including the following:
Providing information to your insurer
Your insurance is based upon the information provided to the insurance company.  Unless 
otherwise indicated by the specific insurer underwriting your particular policy, the following 
circumstances apply.
For Consumers (individuals buying insurance wholly or mainly for purposes unrelated to their 
trade, business or profession) this means that you must take reasonable care to answer all 
questions fully and accurately. Once cover has been arranged, you must immediately notify 
us of any changes to the information that has been provided to your insurers. Failure to 
provide accurate and up to date information may invalidate your insurance cover and mean 
that a claim may not be paid.
So the broker had told Mr B the importance of answering questions carefully  and the 
possible consequences of not doing so.
From the call recording, I find that the broker asked Mr B if there had been any changes. 
And Mr B said there hadnt. 
So the broker completed a proposal (or statement of fact) document that had a section for 
Mr Bs main occupation with a correct answer and a section for any secondary occupation 
with the answer None. 
Ive also seen a letter from the broker to Mr B enclosing renewal documents. The letter was 
headed with the following warning:
Warning!! It is your responsibility to check that all your details are correct on 
the enclosed paper work
Mr B had been working since about March  2021 for a security company. I accept that this 
was on an ad hoc basis or on a zero hours contract. 
But I consider that Mr B had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
to the insurer about his secondary occupation.
I have to look separately at the insurer Highway and other companies in the same group. 
Highway only gives a quote through a broker. Mr B and his partner have obtained quotes 
from another insurance company in the same group as Highway. But that doesnt persuade 
me that Highway wouldve insured anyone who said they were employed in security.
I accept Highways evidence that it would not have insured anyone whose primary or 
secondary occupation was in security. So Highway wouldnt have offered the policy to Mr B if 
hed said his secondary occupation was security. Therefore, I consider that Mr B had made a 
qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Highway wouldnt have offered cover to Mr B. And the accident happened as he was 
returning from a security job. So I dont find that Highway treated Mr B unfairly by saying that 
the policy was void from the start and declining his claim. Whilst I understand the scale of his 
loss, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Highway to meet Mr Bs claim or to do any 
more in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Highway Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman