DRN-2589608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a loan in 1999. A few weeks later, they took out a PPI policy to 
protect their monthly loan repayments. 
The PPI policy was in Mrs Cs name. It would have covered Mr and Mrs Cs monthly loan 
repayments if Mrs C had made a successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness.
The loan was set to run for five years. But St Andrews records show that Mr and Mrs C 
settled the loan towards the end of 1999, around seven months after they took it out, and the 
PPI was cancelled at the same time.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C say they dont remember taking out the PPI. St Andrews records show 
that the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs C a few weeks after the loan started. So I dont think 
Mr and Mrs C would have thought that they needed to take the PPI in order to get the 
loan. And from what we know about sales of this sort, theyd have had to sign a separate 
direct debit mandate for the PPI  and the policy wouldnt have been set up unless theyd 
done so.
So I think Mr and Mrs C would have realised that the PPI was optional. And I think its 
most likely they took it out knowing that they had a choice  although I can understand 
how they may no longer remember this, so many years later.
St Andrews hasnt been able to tell us for certain how the PPI was sold. We know that in 
situations like this, PPI was often sold by post or phone after the loan started. For the 
purposes of this decision, Ive assumed that St Andrews recommended the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs C. This is to Mr and Mrs Cs advantage when it comes to my considering 
their complaint, as it means that St Andrews had a responsibility to check that the PPI 
was suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen 
of their circumstances at the time.
As Ive mentioned, the policy was in Mrs Cs name. St Andrews hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of the policy document that was in use at the time. I dont think thats 
unreasonable, given then time thats passed. But based on our experience of PPI 
policies around the time, I think its likely that the PPI would have paid out for up to 
12 months per successful claim.
I acknowledge that Mrs Cs told us shed have been entitled to some limited sick pay 
from her employer. But the PPI would potentially have paid out for longer. Whats more, 
it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs C received, and Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have had to use any savings they had to make their monthly loan repayments. 
Ive borne in mind that Mr and Mrs C have told us that Mr C was working full-time. But 
circumstances can change, and there could have been no guarantee that Mr C would 
have been in a position to meet all their monthly outgoings if Mrs C had been off sick for 
an extended period. So taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs C could have 
found the PPI useful.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that they 
chose to take out the PPI. So it looks as if they wanted this type of cover, even if theyve 
understandably forgotten this now, so many years later. Based on what Ive seen of 
Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  for example, provisions about unusual working arrangements of 
existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs C would have paid for the PPI by a separate monthly payment from the loan. 
The monthly premiums for the policy would have shown on their bank statements. And 
as they were paying for the PPI monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time if their 
circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman