DRN-2653910
The complaint
Ms O complains that a motorbike that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new motorbike was supplied to Ms O under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services that she signed in April 2017. She contacted the dealer in May 2017 
because there was an issue with the motorbike that was causing it to cut out. The motorbike 
was repaired but the fault continued intermittently. The motorbike was checked but no fault 
was found. 
She complained to BMW Financial Services about the issue with the motorbike after it was 
checked in October 2019 without a fault being found and she said that she wanted to reject 
it. It didnt uphold her complaint but it was agreed in July 2020 that Ms O would voluntarily 
terminate her agreement and return the motorbike and that BMW Financial Services would 
contribute £500 towards the cost of a replacement motorbike. 
Ms O then complained to this service about her issues with the motorbike in September 
2020. Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and that Ms O shouldve had 
a right to reject the motorbike and receive a refund. She recommended that BMW Financial 
Services should: refund Ms Os deposit of £2,100 (minus the £500 already paid toward a 
new agreement) with interest; clear all information regarding the agreement from Ms Os 
credit file; refund 20% of all the monthly payments made by Ms O for her impaired use of the 
motorbike; return out of pocket expenses of £150 (which she later increased to £180 and 
added a further £59.98); and pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience.
BMW Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says that Ms O agreed to a voluntary termination of her agreement under which it would 
cover any shortfall and paid £500 towards a new motorbike. But it agreed that the whole 
situation would have caused Ms O an element of inconvenience so it offered to refund the 
£150 out of pocket expense along with the £200 for distress and inconvenience and £150 for 
goodwill. Ms O didnt accept that offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the motorbike, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms O - whether or 
not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the motorbike and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the motorbike must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly 
how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the motorbike that was supplied to Ms O was new and had a price of £11,650 so I 
consider that it was reasonable for her to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
its clear that Ms O had issues with the motorbike cutting out since soon after it was 
supplied to her and that repairs have been attempted but the issue has continued 
intermittently; 
Ms O first returned the motorbike to the dealer in May 2017 because of that issue 
and returned it a number of times between then and July 2019;
Ms O says that the motorbike continued to cut-out so it was checked by the dealer in 
July and October 2019 but no fault was found;
the motorbike then cut-out three times in May 2020 and discussions about voluntarily 
terminating the agreement then started;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there was a fault with the motorbike that 
caused it to cut-out that was present when it was supplied to Ms O  repairs have 
been attempted but the fault continued;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Ms O and that she should have been allowed to reject the 
motorbike;
its clear that she asked to reject the motorbike in October 2019 and I consider that it 
would have been fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to have accepted 
her rejection of it at that time  had it done so she wouldnt have needed to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement in July 2020;
if Ms O had been allowed to reject the motorbike I consider that it would have been 
fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to have refunded the deposit that 
she paid for the motorbike, with interest, to also have refunded to her part of the 
monthly payments that shed made under the agreement for her impaired use of the 
motorbike, to reimburse her for additional costs incurred and to compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience that she was caused; 
it didnt accept her rejection of the motorbike but then agreed a voluntary termination 
of the agreement; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial 
Services to take the actions set out below.
Putting things right
Ms O has returned the motorbike and has voluntarily terminated the hire purchase 
agreement. But she paid a deposit of £2,100 for the motorbike and I find that BMW Financial 
Services should refund that deposit to Ms O, with interest. I find that it should also remove 
any information about the agreement that its recorded on her credit file.
Ms O was able to use the motorbike for more than  three years but the issues with it will 
have impacted her use and enjoyment of the motorbike during that time  particularly as the 
issues affected her safe use of it. Our investigator recommended that BMW Financial 
Services should refund to Ms O 20% of the monthly payments that she made under the 
agreement. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances. BMW Financial Services can keep the other 80% of those payments as payment for the use that she had 
from the motorbike. 
Ms O paid £180 for the bike to be returned to BMW Financial Services and a £59.98 admin 
charge for the insurance to be changed from the motorbike that she was returning to the 
replacement motorbike. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial 
Services to reimburse her for those costs. 
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Ms O. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to pay her £200 to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Os complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
1. Refund to Ms O the deposit that she paid for the motorbike.
2. Pay interest on that deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3. Refund to Ms O 20% of the monthly payments that she made under the 
agreement as compensation for her impaired use and enjoyment of the 
motorbike.
4. Pay £180 and £59.98 to Ms O to reimburse her for the additional costs that she 
incurred as a result of returning the motorbike.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that it has recorded 
on Ms Os credit file.
6. Pay £200 to Ms O to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 2 above. BMW Financial Services must give Ms O a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman