DRN-3275127
The complaint
Mr J complains that Handelsbanken plc has made unjustified information requests from him.
What happened
Mr J says Handelsbanken asked him for personal information from 2020 into 2021. He says 
he was hounded by Handelsbanken into providing information which he says was 
unnecessary and excessive. Mr J says he was caused stress and anxiety and would like 
£3,500 compensation for what took place.
Handelsbanken says it apologised for some of the requests but says it must comply with its 
regulatory duties. It says Mr J didnt suffer any financial loss.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator accepted 
Handelsbanken had regulatory duties but didnt think it had explained what information was 
needed or why. The investigator also thought Handelsbanken had accepted some of its 
requests were unnecessary and that Mr J had provided required information. The 
investigator recommended Handelsbanken pay £250 compensation which it has agreed to 
do.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says the compensation should be at least £1,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint and intend to 
order Handelsbanken pay £250 compensation.
I am sure Mr J appreciates that Handelsbanken has regulatory duties which can on 
occasions require customers to provide information. I accept on occasions those requests 
can be onerous and time consuming. It is not clear here what information Handelsbanken 
required or why. I can see that it told Mr J that it had the required information but still kept 
asking him for it. So, Im satisfied that Mr J would have been caused distress and 
inconvenience in dealing with these requests and in trying to find out what information was 
needed and why.
The only real issue for me to decide is the level of compensation. I can see that the 
investigator has provided Mr J with information about the type and amount of awards we 
make. I have to consider the impact Handelsbankens actions had upon Mr J and the level of 
distress and inconvenience he was caused. Im satisfied that Handelsbanken actions didnt 
have a significant impact on Mr J and that he didnt suffer any financial loss. I think the 
impact would have caused inconvenience and frustration and am satisfied that a 
compensation award of £250 is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that award fairly reflects the 
level of impact on Mr J and amount of information requests made.
I appreciate Mr J says he should be awarded compensation of either £3,500 or £1,000 but I 
find such amounts are outside of the type and amount of awards we would make. And the 
impact on Mr J doesnt justify such awards.
Putting things right
Handelsbanken should pay Mr J £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Handelsbanken plc to pay Mr J 
£250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman