DRN-2619015
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Nationwide Building Society refused their application for 
additional borrowing.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied to Nationwide for additional borrowing in order to consolidate their 
debts and reduce their monthly repayments. They say that if the application had been 
approved then their monthly repayment would have significantly reduced and allowed them 
to clear other debt. Mr and Mrs A say that Nationwide refused the application which meant 
they were forced to borrow elsewhere and as a result incurred an Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) and broker fees of £3,695. They say the lending would have been affordable and, as 
a different business did lend to them, that is evidence of that fact.
Nationwide says it did assess Mr and Mrs As application and it concluded the additional 
lending was unaffordable. It says its entitled to reach that decision and is obliged to consider 
affordability. Nationwide says the ERC was correctly applied in line with agreed account 
terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought it up to Nationwide when exercising its commercial judgement to make 
such lending decisions and also thought the ERC was correctly applied. The investigator 
also thought different businesses had different lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs A dont accept that view and in summary say the new agreement is more cost 
effective than their previous position and exposed Nationwide to less risk. They question the 
decision making of Nationwide and suggest the lending system is at fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs A feel about this complaint and I accept they will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Lenders must carry out affordability assessments of any form of lending. Those 
assessments must be proportionate and the level of them will of course depend on the type 
of lending and the amount. Im satisfied that Nationwide did assess Mr and Mrs As 
application and decided that the lending was unaffordable, and it wasnt prepared to lend. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs A disagree with that decision.
Im satisfied that its up to a business, and Nationwide in this case, to decide if its prepared 
to offer a loan or credit and its entitled to consider the risk its prepared to take. I find such 
matters are commercial business decisions and not something I can fairly interfere in. And 
that Nationwide is not obliged to lend and can fairly decide with whom it has a business 
relationship with. It follows that I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly or made a mistake 
after assessing Mr and Mrs As application that it was not prepared to approve their 
application.
The investigator has explained that we are not Nationwides regulator and its not our role to 
comment on Mr and Mrs As wider questioning of the banks and building societies lending 
decisions.
I appreciate that as a result of Nationwides decision Mr and Mrs A took out borrowing with a 
different business. Im satisfied that every business is likely to have different borrowing 
criteria and I dont think it follows that Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly if a 
different business makes a different lending decision. I also appreciate that Mr and Mrs A 
paid an ERC and a brokers fee. But Im satisfied that ERC was agreed to by Mr and Mrs A 
in the original loan terms and conditions and correctly applied. And that Nationwide cant 
fairly be held responsible for the brokers fee.
Overall, I find Nationwide was entitled to refuse the application that I think was assessed. I 
cant fairly comment on the wider issues Mr and Mrs A raise and for the reasons I have 
explained I dont think it matters what Nationwides exposure to risk was, as its entitled to 
assess an application and make a commercial decision on it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman