DRN-3024090
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
In June 2016, Mr S applied for a credit card from Halifax. This was agreed with a limit of 
£1,000. In December 2017, the debt of £1,164 was defaulted and passed to debt collectors. 
The debt was repaid in June 2020.
Mr S complained that he shouldnt have been given the card in the first place. He had a 
County Court Judgement (CCJ) against his name, plus other defaults and payday loans. 
Halifax shouldve seen these and declined the card application. He now has a default 
against him as a result and wants this removed.
Halifax said Mr S passed all their credit checks. These included information from credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). These didnt show any defaulted debts or a CCJ at the time of 
Mr S application. Hed told them he was earning £27000 per annum and had rent to pay of 
£400 per month. Based on this information, they agreed a limit of £1,000. They apologised 
for the time it took to deal with Mr S complaint, and for this they paid compensation of £50.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator issued two views. The first didnt uphold 
Mr S complaint. But the second said that Halifax were at fault  hed seen Mr S credit file 
and this showed a default, plus a CCJ for £2351  in March 2016. So, on that basis, he 
upheld Mr S complaint. He said that Halifax should remove any adverse entries made at 
CRAs and refund all interest and charges.
Halifax disagreed and asked that Mr S complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Halifax 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments.
The crux of Mr S complaint is that Halifax shouldve seen that he was in financial difficulty at 
the time of his application for a credit card in June 2016  and therefore declined it. He says 
Halifax shouldve seen there were defaults, a County Court Judgement (CCJ) and payday 
loans. So  I need to establish what information Halifax saw when they looked at Mr S 
application.
I can see that Mr S told Halifax that he was in regular, long term (more than three years) 
employment. And he was earning £27,000 a year with only outgoings of rent - £400 a month. 
So that looked OK.
Mr S sent to us his credit file. This shows he had one default for £709 in March 2016. And a 
CCJ for £2351 in March 2016. The critical issue here was the CCJ. We asked Halifax about 
this. They told us that the CCJ wasnt shown at the CRA that they used at the time of Mr S 
application. And  I can see that this was the case  on Mr S credit file, it was shown 
against Mr S name on one CRA, but not on the other two main CRAs. This may have been 
the fault of the lender in question  I cant say. But  I can only make a decision based on 
what we know Halifax saw. And in this case, they didnt have the information about the CCJ. 
So  I cant therefore say they were wrong to give Mr S a credit card based on what they 
knew and could see at the time.
I can see that the default for £709 in March 2016 was reported at the CRA used by Halifax  
so they shouldve seen this. But  this was a relatively small default, and it was also only one 
entry in an otherwise clear credit file  so I dont think this is particularly relevant on its own.
I can also see that Mr Ss credit file showed several defaulted debts from November 2016 
through to 2018. And there were payday loans taken out from 2017 onwards  so it looks 
like Mr S financial problems came about quite a while after his application to Halifax in June 
2016.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr S  but I can only base my decision on what 
information we know Halifax could see at the time  and this was that they could not see the 
CCJ. And so, in all fairness, I cant say that Halifax were wrong to give Mr S a credit card 
when they did.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Halifax had no comments. Mr S said he was disappointed  the court must have put the CCJ 
on his credit file and it must have been there for Halifax to see. And on that basis, they 
should not have issued him with the card. He said he was rejected by another bank because 
of the CCJ  so it must have been showing up.
So  now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again what Mr S has said to us. I can only make a decision based on what 
Halifax saw at the time of Mr S application. And  Ive seen that the credit search using their 
CRA did not show the CCJ against Mr S name. Its Halifaxs commercial decision as to 
which CRA they use, and we cant interfere with that. And to Mr S point  its not down to 
the court to lodge the CCJ with the CRAs, but its for the lender who obtained the CCJ. I 
agree it might seem strange to Mr S that the CCJ wasnt registered with the CRA that Halifax 
used. But thats not something I can hold Halifax responsible for. Mr S has said he was 
rejected by another bank because of the CCJ  I can only assume that bank used a CRA 
that did show the CCJ.
So  on this basis, I am not upholding Mr S complaint for the reasons I gave in the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman