DRN-3070547
The complaint
Mr M complains that ITI Capital Limited  referred to as ITI or the transferor  failed to 
carry out his instructions to transfer his ISA to a third-party provider, referred to as the 
transferee. 
Mr M says that despite chasing the matter hasnt been resolved satisfactorily. 
What happened
Mr M initially held an account with a different provider. In August 2019, following intervention 
from the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), the provider went 
into administration. 
In June 2020, ITI eventually took over the previous providers client books, and Mr Ms 
assets and cash accounts were transferred over. I understand that Mr M was told that the 
account would be up and running by July 2020.
 
On 6 August 2020, Mr M says he contacted the transferee and requested a transfer of his 
ISA. The same day, he also contacted ITI to notify it of his instructions to transfer. 
On 11 September 2020, Mr M emailed ITI to ask about his transfer and to also notify it that 
he couldnt access his account.  
On 14 September 2020, ITI replied and apologised for the delay. It provided a phone number 
to its Dealing Team and gave information on how to progress matters, including details that 
the it/transferee might need. 
After some ongoing correspondence, Mr M complained to ITI about the transfer and lack of 
access to his account. ITI upheld the complaint. In short, it apologised for the delays and 
recognised that there were some issues with Mr M accessing his account. It offered Mr M 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M rejected ITIs response, and in due course referred the complaint to our service. 
In February 2021, ITI contacted Mr M again asking if he still wished to continue with his 
intention to transfer. In response to his reply it said that hed need a transfer request letter 
from the broker, which it offered to obtain on his behalf. I understand that Mr M replied 
asking ITI not to contact him again as he felt harassed and upset by the whole process. I 
also note hed already referred the complaint to our service by this stage.  
In early March 2021, ITI sent a valuation to the transferee, but the transferee replied saying 
that it didnt have a record of the transfer request on its system. ITI emailed Mr M again 
asking for the broker reference number or transferee ID number so that it could progress 
matters. It subsequently messaged Mr M again in June 2021 about the same issue. 
Mr M has now asked ITI to conduct all contact with him through our service. He feels that ITI 
are now ridiculing him by paying no regard to his request not to contact him. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Its likely that Mr M applied to transfer his ISA in August 2020, even though ITI hasnt 
provided a copy of the application form. Nevertheless, its likely that Mr M wanted to 
transfer his ISA to another provider at the time.  
Normally, wed expect transfers to be completed within 30 days, but on the face of 
the available evidence, its not entirely clear what happened in this instance, 
therefore she cant say that ITI is wholly responsible for the delays.    
ITI made numerous efforts to assist Mr M but couldnt go ahead without the 
appropriate paper work/information. Thats why it contacted him and volunteered to 
try and obtain the necessary information on his behalf. 
Whilst the process has been frustrating for Mr M  because he thought itd be simpler 
 she cant say that the business is to blame entirely. Mr M may also wish to speak to 
the transferee about the issues hes experienced. 
Whilst Mr M had some problems accessing his online account, he was given a phone 
number to contact the Dealing Team in order to access his account information.  
Overall, ITI failed to provide a reasonable service, particularly in relation to its 
communication with Mr M, therefore it should pay a total £250 compensation  less 
any money paid  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, he said:
Under normal circumstances hed say that the view was fair. However, in this case 
there are points that need clarification. 
The compensation recommended by the investigator doesnt take into account the 
extent of his distress and inconvenience suffered. 
Although ITI contacted him in February 2021, and the transferee in March 2021, it 
was in his best interests not to correspond with it as the complaint had already been 
referred to our service.
The whole point of referring the complaint to our service was so that:
oOur service could investigate what happened and why.
oProtect his investments. 
oReturn the investment to what it was before ITI took over.  
Hes unhappy that ITI have still failed to provide a value of his portfolio which hed 
like to know. He wants to know what the value of his portfolio was at transfer, and 
what it is now. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
ITI provided the following information:
oThe valuation of Mr Ms investments at migration was $21,440
oThe valuation in September 2021 was $60,140.
oThe conversion rate was 1.3837  
The compensation recommended by her is in line with our service. 
Mr R was happy to see the appreciation of his investments but would nevertheless like the 
matter referred to an ombudsman. Hes made clear that he wants to transfer all his assets to 
the transferee and wants to know how to proceed. The investigator made clear that she isnt sure of the internal workings of the transferee or 
ITI but suggested that Mr M may wish to contact the transferee to initiate the process. The 
investigator also explained that were not the FCA and that were not here to police 
financial business or punish them for any mistakes they make. 
Mr M made the following final submissions:
Given everything thats happened, in order to resolve the matter, hed like the 
compensation increased to at least £550. 
Hes spent at least two days on this case and the compensation would be equivalent 
to two days income. 
The appreciation of his investment is down to good-luck and should be discounted, 
as the markets are still unstable.  
It has taken almost a year to get to this stage, and ITI still hasnt provided a clear 
answer as to what happened. 
If the investigator cant change her mind and award higher compensation, hed like 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think the business behaved reasonably. 
However, I think the £250 compensation recommended by the investigator is broadly fair 
and reasonable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M, and ITI, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Based on what Mr M says, it seems to me (in the main) he agrees with the investigators 
view, however in order to resolve this complaint he would like more compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr M says, I cant entirely blame 
ITI for the delays that hes experienced. In other words, on the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, Im unable to safely conclude that ITI is solely responsible for the delays 
experienced. Im conscious that ITI couldnt act without the relevant information from other parties, and 
therefore it was only so far that it could go with the transfer request. Nevertheless, I dont 
think it managed Mr Ms expectations as well as it couldve or provide a level of service that 
he could expect from ITI including issues to do with access to his online account and 
information about what was going on. 
Its not entirely clear the size of the books that ITI took over from the previous provider that 
went into administration. But its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will 
have greatly affected ITIs capacity to deal with the additional customers and increased 
requests. It seems that there may have also been some IT issues.  
Based on what ITI says, it seems its capacity to deal with Mr M arose, in the main, from 
issues outside of its control. 
By way of example, I note ITI in a final response to Mr M stated:
Please accept our apologies for the lack of access to your trading account. Unfortunately, 
we have been experiencing high volumes of account access requests as well as some 
technical issues as a result of the migration.
Unfortunately, there have been several necessary steps that had needed to be taken in 
order for you to be fully migrated from the previous platform (name anonymised) to ITI 
Capital. This Involved onboarding with Simple 2 Trade (S2T) and then to Interactive Broker's 
Phoenix. The process of moving from S2T to Phoenix was intended to be automatic, 
however, certain verification documents were not being read by the Phoenix onboarding 
system resulting in a manual verification being required.
Even if I thought ITI was solely to blame for the delays, which I dont, based on the 
appreciation of Mr Ms investments  from migration to when the value was provided  it 
seems unlikely that hes suffered a financial loss, despite his concerns that hes lost money. 
On the contrary, Mr Ms investments appear to be doing very well. 
Whilst I note what Mr M says about luck and appreciation of his investments, he isnt 
automatically entitled to compensation if he hasnt suffered a financial loss, even if the 
business has made a mistake. In other words, hes not entitled to compensation for losses 
that he hasnt suffered, even if the business hasnt been able to provide a reasonable 
service.  
I appreciate that Mr M feels harassed and fed up by the whole affair, but I think ITI was only 
trying to carry out the instructions as best as it could, given the circumstances. Despite what 
Mr M says, I dont think ITI intended to cause him harassment, alarm or distress. Instead I 
think it tried to progress matters, including trying to obtain information on his behalf in order 
to do so. 
By way of example, Im aware that ITI didnt have the broker account number, which on 
balance would suggest that it probably was incomplete at logging stage, and probably wasnt 
provided to begin with  its possible that there were other issues. What is clear is that ITI 
cant move a request forward unless it has the necessary information. 
Nevertheless, Im mindful that Mr M is keen to re-invest in his old platform and will be 
instructing the transferee to do so  hes very keen to take his business elsewhere. Thats of 
course entirely a matter for him, but he may wish to seek financial advice before doing so.  On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, I think the 
investigators recommendation to pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Despite what Mr M says, this 
isnt a payment based on his daily rate of income, but for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered as result of the delays for which ITI is responsible and lack of access to his account. 
I understand that Mr M is keen to report this matter to the FCA, and perhaps the LSE he is 
of course free to do so if thats what he wants to do. But neither of these are reason for me 
to give him the compensation he wants.   
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask ITI to do anything other 
than pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr M what he wants in terms of redress. 
  
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited must pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman