DRN-2548166
The complaint
Ms T complains Atom Bank PLC refused to give her a new mortgage interest rate product 
when her existing rate came to an end in May 2020.
She was also unhappy Atom wouldnt agree to a payment deferral on her mortgage in July 
2020 under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines about the treatment of 
mortgage customers during the Covid-19 pandemic, but shes since decided she doesnt 
want to pursue that issue.
To put things right Ms T would like Atom to give her the rate switch she asked for in May 
2020 and backdate this to when her previous rate came to an end, with the difference 
between what she has paid and what she would have paid being refunded to her.
What happened
In 2018 Ms T took out a capital repayment mortgage with Atom of around £440,000 with a 
term of 25 years. 
In May 2020 Ms T contacted her mortgage broker to get a new fixed interest rate product on 
her mortgage with Atom, as the existing product was due to come to an end that month. She 
would then revert to Atoms standard variable rate (SVR), which she says increased her 
monthly mortgage payments by around £500 a month. 
Atom refused to give Ms T a new rate. She says shes now stuck on Atoms SVR despite it 
having other products available. And she says the rates available when she made her 
complaint were worse than they were when her mortgage broker first applied for one. 
Ms T complained to Atom, which didnt uphold her complaint. Atom said it had provided her 
broker with all the information about her application for a new interest rate product and it had 
declined her request in line with its processes and procedures.
Unhappy with Atoms response, Ms T brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ts complaint, but Atom didnt agree. 
Broadly, Atom said it refused the product switch because Ms Ts circumstances had 
changed since she took out the mortgage. Her income had gone down, and she had 
incurred a high amount of unsecured credit. Atom said this was a material change to the 
affordability of her mortgage and tying her to a new fixed rate product wasnt in her best 
interests. It said Ms T therefore fell outside its lending criteria. 
Atom acknowledged Ms Ts contractual monthly mortgage payments were still affordable, 
but it was concerned providing Ms T with another fixed rate product where, it said, the 
difference in payments between a fixed rate and the SVR was relatively small, would restrict 
her options if she chose to re-mortgage with another lender and potentially expose her to a 
significant early repayment charge, (ERC).
Our investigator thought Atom had misunderstood the mortgage rules. He said since Ms T 
wasnt asking to vary the terms of her existing mortgage in a way that was material to 
affordability, Atom didnt need to consider the overall affordability of the mortgage. He 
thought the relevant mortgage rules allowed Atom to give Ms T a new interest rate.
Our investigator thought that to put things right Atom should put Ms T back in the position 
she would have been in had her application been assessed fairly. He recommended Atom 
re-assess Ms Ts product switch application without considering affordability and offer Ms T 
the interest rate products which he thought should have been made available to her when 
she made her request in May 2020. He said once Ms T had selected a rate, Atom should:
backdate the product to begin when her fixed rate ended, recalculating the mortgage 
balance; 
for any months where Ms T had made a payment, refund the difference between the 
SVR shed paid and the new interest rate, adding simple annual interest of 8% from 
the date of each monthly payment to the date of refund; and 
pay Ms T £250 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Since Atom didnt accept what our investigator said Ms Ts complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have very helpfully provided more information since our investigator reached his 
view which Ive considered carefully.  
In December 2019 Ms T left her partner due to extremely difficult and sensitive 
circumstances and went to stay with a relative. Her partner made the mortgage payments 
from then on as he remained in the property, though the mortgage is in Ms Ts sole name.
Ms T was expecting a baby in May 2020. Ms T planned to go back to work in August 2020 
after her entitlement to maternity pay came to an end. 
Ms T had several conversations with Atom about getting a payment deferral in March 2020 
when she says she explained her situation to them. Ms T told Atom the reason shed had to 
leave the property and that shed had to rent somewhere for herself and her children. Ms T 
didnt think her partner, who was still in the property, would carry on paying the mortgage 
and she couldnt afford both the mortgage and her rent. 
Atom didnt think Ms T qualified for a payment deferral initially since, although she couldnt 
go to work because of the Covid-19 pandemic as she was pregnant, she was still being paid 
at the time. But it eventually agreed to defer Ms Ts payments for three months.
Ms T asked about extending the payment deferral in June at the request of her partner who 
was making the mortgage payments. But Atom refused based on an affordability 
assessment it carried out on 22 June 2020, which showed Ms T had enough income to pay 
the mortgage as well as substantial savings. Atom thought she could afford to pay the 
mortgage and it wasnt in her best interests for the payment deferral to be extended. Ms T says she was still hoping to secure a new interest rate product by the end of the 
payment deferral in June 2020, but Atom refused her application. 
Ms Ts told us she went back to work as planned. Shes has been living in temporary rented 
accommodation with her mother and children since March 2020, paying rent of £1400 a 
month, to which her family is contributing £1200 a month. Shes currently going through a 
divorce as part of which she expects her partner will move out of her property and she will be 
able to return by around May this year. 
Under the terms and conditions of Ms Ts mortgage, the interest rate moved onto Atoms 
SVR after the initial fixed rate period came to an end. This significantly increased her 
contractual monthly payments. But the mortgage also allowed her to apply for a new fixed 
rate, which is what she did in the hope of lowering her payments.
Atom says it refused Ms Ts application because she didnt fall within its lending criteria, 
specifically those relating to affordability and the income multiples it applies. It said providing 
a fixed rate product might restrict her from getting a mortgage with another lender and could 
expose her to a high ERC. And it had concerns about differences in financial information Ms 
T provided for her product switch and payment deferral request, in particular in relation to 
her credit commitments.
The mortgage rules set out in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB) say, at 11.6.2, that a lender must assess the affordability of a mortgage 
where a change to the mortgage is being made.
However, under MCOB 11.6.3, an affordability assessment is not required where the 
borrower wants to make a change to the terms of the mortgage that doesnt involve 
additional borrowing or is not otherwise material to the affordability of the mortgage.
I dont think the changes Ms T wanted to make  taking out a new interest product which 
would lower her monthly outgoings  is a change that is material to the affordability of the 
mortgage. It wouldnt make the mortgage more expensive in the way that taking on 
additional borrowing would. And its not a change that the regulations say is material in other 
ways, such as removing a joint borrower.
So, I dont think Atom took the right approach if it assessed the application on the basis that 
Ms Ts change in circumstances were material to the affordability of the mortgage. MCOB 
11.6.3 doesnt refer to a change in the borrowers circumstances. It refers to a change to the 
terms of the mortgage which is material to affordability. I dont think there was going to be a 
change to the mortgage itself that was material to affordability, since the payments would 
reduce, not increase. And the regulator has made clear that it doesnt expect the affordability 
rules to be used as a bar to switching interest rates. So, I dont think this was a fair reason to 
refuse Ms Ts application.
However, its not the only reason Atom gave. It said it had concerns about tying Ms T into a 
fixed rate with an ERC. So, Ill now consider whether refusing a product on these grounds 
was fair  even if Atom hadnt refused the application on affordability.
At the time Ms T made the application her circumstances were complicated as Ive 
explained. She was on a Covid-19 related payment deferral and was having to find an 
additional £200 a month towards her rent.
Ms T was concerned that her partner would stop making the mortgage payments for which 
she is responsible under the mortgage agreement. And he did miss one payment in July, 
although Ms T made the payment instead. I think its clear from what happened that Ms T was concerned about managing her financial 
situation. Shed asked for a payment deferral because of her domestic circumstances. Shed 
asked questions of Atom in March 2020 about applying for a new interest rate product when 
her fixed rate came to an end in May to keep her mortgage payments down. And she then 
made the application.
Ms T had a high level of unsecured borrowing and I acknowledge there are some differences 
in the information she provided about that in her application and the later income and 
expenditure form. So, I think it was reasonable for Atom to have some concerns about the 
accurate position. Ms Ts explained some of the borrowing was as a result of her reduced 
income while she was on maternity leave.
I can also see that under the previous fixed interest rate period there was a significant ERC. 
So, I think its reasonable for Atom to point out the fixed interest rate products available at 
the time all had an ERC which Ms T would have to pay if she had, for any reason, to get out 
of her mortgage before the period of any fixed interest rate product had ended. 
However, on balance, I think it was in Ms Ts best interests for her to take a new fixed rate 
product and I dont think it was fair for Atom to decline her application on the basis shed 
expose herself to an ERC. I think it was for Ms T to assess whether that was a risk she was 
prepared to take. 
Moving onto the standard variable rate increased her outgoings by around £500 a month. 
Having a lower fixed rate product would have reduced her financial commitments at a time 
when she was on maternity leave with a lower income than usual, had some additional rental 
costs and was having to rely on credit to fund daily outgoings. A lower interest rate would 
have helped avoid that. 
Ms T always planned to return to work after the birth of her child, which she has done. And 
she is the sole owner of the property her husband is temporarily living in and planning to 
return there once her divorce has been settled so her rental payments will probably end 
then. 
Bearing everything in mind, I uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Atom should offer Ms T the interest rate products for which she 
was eligible when her fixed interest rate product ended in May 2020, backdate the product to 
begin when her previous fixed rate ended and refund the extra amount shes been paying 
with interest.
I can understand Atoms refusal to allow Ms T to access a new fixed interest rate will have 
caused her distress and inconvenience at what will already have been a difficult time for her 
given her circumstances. So, I think it is fair for Atom to compensate Ms T for that. 
 
My final decisionI direct Atom Bank PLC to re-assess Ms Ts application for a new fixed interest rate product 
without considering affordability and to offer Ms T the interest rate products for which she 
was otherwise eligible when her previous fixed rate came to an end. Once Ms T has 
selected a rate, Atom should:
backdate the product to begin when her fixed rate ended, recalculating the mortgage 
balance; 
for any months where Ms T has made a payment, refund the difference between the 
SVR shes paid and the new interest rate, adding simple annual interest of 8% from 
the date of each monthly payment to the date of refund; and 
pay Ms T £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
If Atom Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman