DRN-2321058
The complaint
Mr M, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains Richard Bamber & 
Company (Mortgages) Ltd (Richard Bamber), didnt properly inform him of all the alternative 
options available when he took out a level term annuity.
What happened
In October 2008, Mr M met with an adviser from Richard Bamber to discuss his pensions. At 
the time he held two personal pensions. His 60th birthday was approaching, and he was 
eligible to take benefits from one of the pension plans.
On 6 November 2008, Richard Bamber issued a suitability report. Its detailed Mr M as being 
aged 59, married, with one financial dependent and self-employed. It explained one Mr Ms 
pensions had penalties until he attained 65 years of age and so Mr M had decided to defer 
taking any benefits until then to avoid a financial penalty.
The suitability letter went on to say Richard Bamber needed to consider Mr Ms needs and 
objectives, it said:
Mr M wanted income immediately
He wanted to be able to take maximum tax-free cash.
He wanted a level pension
He wanted a 10-year guarantee
He declined a spouse's pension
There is a further note in the suitability letter which states the adviser had discussed in detail 
all the options available to Mr M, including the Open Market Option. The impact of taking the
pension earlier and the effects of inflation on a level pension were also discussed. It was
explained to Mr M that the younger he is, the smaller his annuity, as the pension pot has
to last longer. Mr M was also advised that an escalating pension this will reduce his initial
pension income as each year this will increase either at a standard rate or RPI. Following a
discussion about this, it says Mr M indicated he wished to take the level pension as the initial
income will be greater as he still had an additional income from his employment.
The suitability letter goes on to say:
Mr M advised that he wanted to take the tax-free cash and not the higher income option. 
This is because he wanted to invest the lump sum either through his business or place into 
cash ISAs. At the time, Mr M believed that this could give him a better return in the long term 
rather than taking it in the form of higher income.
The Schedule shows the premium (after tax free cash) to be £22,774.59 with a 
commencement date of 16 December 2008, providing a monthly annuity
income of £130.09. This will be payable throughout Mr Ms lifetime but subject to the 
guaranteed minimum period of 10 years.
In July 2019, the CMC contacted Ricard Bamber to request all the documentation in relation 
to the advice given to Mr M. It made a formal complaint on 24 September 2019. It said in 
summary:
Mr M shouldnt have been advised to purchase the annuity.
Mr M was not properly informed of the impact of long-term inflation on the purchasing 
power of his income and the impact on his standard of living.
Mr M was not properly informed of alternatives, including but not limited to a 
drawdown option.
On 22 November 2019, Richard Bamber issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. It said Mr M was informed of all the options available as detailed in the suitability 
letter. It said Mr Ms objectives were to take tax free cash and did not want to invest the 
funds as he didnt want to take any risk with his pension fund.
Dissatisfied Mr M, represented by the CMC, brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr M. He looked carefully at the suitability letter, the 
pension annuity comparison undertaken by the adviser, the application and considered Mr 
Ms medical history. He didnt find anything to suggest Mr M had been mis-informed or that 
the adviser hadnt considered all the options in relation to Mr Ms stated needs and 
objectives. He didnt uphold the complaint and so didnt ask Richard Bamber to do anything 
further.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr M, disagreed. It asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, Ill explain 
why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I must consider relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good industry 
practice.
I have taken account of time-limits to which this service must conform. I have noted the 
event complained of happened more than six years before the consumer raised it with the 
business. The CMC has said Mr M only became aware that he may have been misadvised a 
few weeks prior to it raising a complaint with the business. Although there is limited 
information on what led Mr M to have concerns some 11 years after his annuity payments commenced, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr M was aware any earlier than the 
complaint was made nor has Richard Bamber objected to the complaint being investigated, 
as such Ive no reason to conclude that its out of time.
I wasnt present when the discussion between Mr M and his adviser were taking place. So, 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I consider the crux of the complaint to be the three areas the CMC has raised on Mr Ms 
behalf namely:
Mr M shouldnt have been advised to purchase the annuity.
Mr M was not properly informed of the impact of long-term inflation on the purchasing 
power of his income and the impact on his standard of living.
Mr M was not properly informed of alternatives, including but not limited to a 
drawdown option.
I have considered the suitability letter in detail. Mr Ms need and objectives are clearly set 
out, these dont seem to be in dispute. There is a specific detail stating the adviser had 
discussed in detail all the options available to Mr M, including the Open Market Option. 
The letter goes onto explain the impact of taking the pension earlier and specifically the 
effects of inflation on a level pension were also discussed. It further says that the younger 
he is, the smaller his annuity, as the pension pot has to last longer. Mr M was also advised 
that an escalating pension this will reduce his initial pension income as each year this will 
increase either at a standard rate or RPI.  The adviser notes Mr M indicated he wished to 
take the level pension as the initial income will be greater as he still had an additional 
income from his employment.
Im persuaded the suitability letter is well personalised and indicates a discussion did take 
place regarding the difference between a level term and escalating pension, including the 
pros and cons of both options. So, Im not in agreement Mr M wasnt made aware of the 
differences and I think its more likely than not he made an informed choice to take a level 
term annuity.
The supporting document here, is the retirement suitability questionnaire. This details a 
scoring system from 1 to 5. With 1 being the most important or accurate statement for Mr M 
and 5 being the least. 
Under the dependents benefits, the scores are all 4-5. The questionnaire details Mr Ms 
spouse has enough pension provision and so a dependents pension is not an area he 
wishes to address. I note this area isnt in dispute.
Similarly, under the other sections, the statement Mr M, is asked to consider says:
I wish to have a pension fund from which I can vary the amount of income I take each year 
depending on my circumstances. I understand this flexibility is only available to me if I am 
willing to take the risk that my income will reduce if my pension fund does not perform as 
well as hoped.
AndI am happy to accept a larger degree of risk in exchange for the possibility of a higher 
pension or more flexible income and death benefits, understanding this could lead to a fall in 
future pension income.
And
I do not mind a reasonable degree of risk in the hope that my benefits could eventually be 
higher or benefit from more flexible income and death benefits whilst understanding that this 
could lead to a fall in future pension income.
Mr M scored all these statements as a 5, and so of least importance to him and an indication 
that he doesnt wish to take any risk with his pension fund or take a flexible income or vary 
his pension income. 
Ive further considered documentation, of a pension annuities comparison table showing 
rates from 7 different providers. The table compared single life annuities with a 10-year 
guarantee for Mr M with a pension fund calculated with and without a tax-free lump sum. 
There are notes detailing the discussion regarding this tax-free lump sum and this is also 
documented in the suitability letter.
Mr M says he wanted to take the tax-free cash and not the higher income option. This is 
because he wanted to invest the lump sum either through his business or place into cash 
ISAs. At the time, Mr M believed that this could give him a better return in the long term 
rather than taking it in the form of higher income. Again, I find this to be personalised and 
indicates a discussion took place about the right option for Mr M based on his needs and 
objectives. 
Whilst there was an indication of some health concern, I can see impaired life annuities were 
considered, but rates were not too different from annuity recommended and the comparison 
shows the recommended product to be the highest income available based on Mr what Mr M 
said he wanted.
I havent seen anything to suggest all the options available werent discussed and Im 
satisfied the advice given was in line with the applicable rules and laws at the time and Mr 
Ms personal objectives and requirements. As such I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman