DRN-3946794
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) incorrectly described the 
Personal Portfolio 3 Fund as medium risk - he feels it should more accurately have been 
categorised as high risk. Mr P said this prompted him to place his money into a fund that 
exposed his investment to more risk than he wanted to take and caused him to suffer 
financial loss.  
To put things right, Mr P would like NatWest to put him back to the financial position he was 
in prior to investing with NatWest as the product is not what he believes he was sold.
What happened
In July 2021, using NatWests online service, Mr P invested a five figure amount into a 
stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) and he chose to put his money into the 
medium risk investment option offered  the Personal Portfolio 3 Fund.
When his investment lost value, Mr P complained to NatWest that the fund had been mis-
sold to him because his money was exposed to a higher than medium level of risk. His view 
was that the asset mix of the Personal Portfolio 3 Fund meant it was over exposed to market 
volatility by reason of being too heavily invested in equities. 
NatWest didnt uphold his complaint. It mainly said that Mr P had made his own investment 
choice when hed put his money into the Personal Portfolio 3 Fund which was a medium risk 
fund.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the available information wasnt enough to show that NatWest had provided unclear or 
misleading information to Mr P. She didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong and that 
it wasnt responsible for any financial loss Mr P suffered.
Mr P didnt agree. He replied in detail to say, in brief summary, that:
his complaint had been over-simplified and not fully understood
NatWest advertised the fund as medium risk and showed evidence on its web site of 
fund performance over a three year period, which included the period of the 
pandemic 
he had emphasised to NatWest at the time  including during a conference call - that 
he could not afford to lose his retirement money and needed it to be in a medium 
risk portfolio that would be relatively safe
he supplied evidence showing how poorly the investment funds were performing 
across all risk levels  and that the highest risk fund was outperforming all the other 
funds
Nat West has changed its investment management company and the new 
management company has repositioned the funds, which Mr P says confirms that 
the funds were not positioned in the right areas for a medium risk portfolio ...
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in our approach. 
Having considered everything very carefully, I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr P mentioned that hed spoken to his NatWest personal account manager when hed 
made it clear he didnt want a high risk investment and couldnt afford to lose any money. He 
said hed been shown information about NatWests portfolio of investments, risk ratings had 
been explained as 1 for very low risk through to 5 for very high risk and he was informed 
that fund 3 was a medium risk investment and had returned approximately 6% over the 
past three years (which included covid times)... He also mentioned a conference call with 
NatWest. Ive seen nothing to show that any tailored personal investment recommendation 
was ever provided to Mr P. It seems to be agreed that Mr P applied online to invest in the 
Personal Portfolio 3 Fund  and thats what the evidence I've seen points to. This means 
that it was up to Mr P to decide whether the investment he chose was right for him  it wasnt 
up to NatWest to assess suitability.  
NatWest needed to provide Mr P with accurate information so he was able to make his own 
informed investment decision. At the heart of Mr Ps complaint seems to be his concern that 
he was misled by NatWest into investing in a fund that was wrongly described by NatWest 
as medium risk. So this will be the focus of my decision
Theres only limited information now available from the actual point of sale - neither NatWest 
nor Mr P can provide the relevant versions of the product information available to Mr P when 
he invested. NatWest has supplied the Key Investor Information that was in circulation 
around seven months later and the updated Personal Portfolio 3 Fund factsheet that came 
into use in September 2022. I think its likely these give a useful insight into what Mr P 
wouldve been able to see when he invested in the fund and its reasonable to rely on these 
to help me understand the risk level of the fund Mr P invested in. 
The Key Investor Information says that the fund Mr P was invested in was a medium risk 
fund designed to increase in value over the medium to longer-term through a diversified 
portfolio of investments, with equity based investment making up at least 45% of the net 
asset value of the fund. The proportion of equities could vary over time, as the fund was 
actively managed. The fund managers took ongoing decisions about exactly where and in 
what precise proportions across asset classes to place funds to try and achieve the 
investment objective in changing market conditions. This doesnt mean that the fund wasnt 
fairly described as medium risk when Mr P invested in it. 
Our investigator mentioned that the fund fact sheet from October 2022 showed the fund 
holding around half its net asset value in equities. Despite Mr Ps concern about the 
emphasis on equity investment, I dont consider that this is enough of a reason for me to 
uphold the complaint. It doesnt follow that this proportion of equity based investment would 
necessarily put the fund at a higher than medium level of risk overall over the intended 
investment term. It is consistent with the stated investment policy of having at least 45% 
of the fund in equity based investment, so describing a fund with this make up as medium 
level risk seems fair and reasonable to me.  The Profile of a Typical Investor on the Key Investor Information sheet says:
A typical investor in the Fund has a medium tolerance for risk; they accept that the value of 
their investment may fluctuate and they have a medium tolerance to bear losses to their 
capital. The minimum investment horizon is 5 years.
I dont know if this information appeared in exactly this format on the earlier version of the 
Key Investor Information sheet that Mr P wouldve been able to see, but I think its likely that 
this wording or something similar wouldve helped him to decide if this investment was right 
for him. The screenshots of the online journey Mr P wouldve had to complete when he 
invested in the Personal Portfolio 3 Fund show projected forecasts and include the following 
information: what you could get back in different market conditions and With investing 
your money is at risk and you could get back less than you paid in. 
Mr P said that the 6% return figure mentioned to him covered the period when the pandemic 
was already impacting on financial markets. So he doesnt accept that the pandemic and 
other world events are enough to sufficiently explain the funds more recent poor 
performance  he attributes this to the fund being too heavily invested in equities prone to 
volatility. But for the reasons I have explained, the fund was structured as described by 
NatWest and it was Mr Ps choice to decide if the investment matched what he was looking 
for. I think he wouldve been able to see information that made clear that past performance 
was no guarantee of future returns and that he wouldve understood this. 
Whilst I completely understand why Mr P wanted to avoid any investment loss, I think it's fair 
to say that Mr P has consistently maintained it was always his firm intention to invest at a 
medium level of risk. Investing at this level inevitably carries some risk of making a loss and, 
from what hes said about his other investments in high risk companies, I think Mr P 
wouldve understood that. Mr P has mentioned that he saw there were losses across most of 
the funds at every level  and the best performance was in a high risk fund. The fact that he 
feels his investment in the Personal Portfolio 3 Fund dropped quite sharply in value over a 
relatively short period doesnt suggest to me that the fund wasnt ranked correctly as 
medium risk.  
Mr P has pointed out that the fund is ranked 4 on a risk scale of 1 -7  he put things this way: 
So Nat Wests medium risk fund 3 errs toward medium/high. But this doesnt affect my 
overall view because I think its fair to describe a level of risk sitting around the middle of a 
scale that ranks risk from 1 -7 as medium.
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to find that NatWest had provided misleading 
information to Mr P or treated him unfairly or unreasonably. But I dont find that it did. It was 
only obliged to provide information to put Mr P in a position to be able to make an informed 
investment decision  which it did. And NatWest needed to ensure that the information it 
provided about Personal Portfolio 3 Fund was correct and not misleading  which it was, so 
far as I can see. For all the reasons I have set out more fully above, I consider that NatWest 
didnt do anything wrong here and it follows that I am not upholding this complaint. 
Mr P has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that he feels very strongly about his complaint. Its part of my role to identify 
and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. I have 
concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of his 
complaint. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P but I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman