DRN-2978937
The complaint
Mr U has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a 
range of issues related to a warranty.
 
What happened
Mr U contacted D&G because his washing machine stopped working. D&G replaced the 
washing machine. Shortly afterwards, D&G cancelled the policy for the washing machine, as 
well as the warranties for Mr Us other appliances.
A while later, Mr U contacted D&G to say the washing machine had a fault. D&G said Mr U 
should discuss this with the manufacturer and the company that supplied the washing 
machine. The supplier later agreed to take back the washing machine, so D&G paid Mr U 
£499 to settle the claim for the washing machine. However, Mr U said the washing 
machines price had increased by £300, so he wanted D&G to pay him the difference. D&G 
said it wouldnt pay the difference and that it shouldnt have paid him £499, as the 
manufacturer should have replaced the machine.
When Mr U complained to D&G, it said it stood by its decision and confirmed it had the right 
to remove warranty cover. However, it later accepted that it had continued to take some 
payments in error after Mr Us warranties had been cancelled.
When Mr U complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She 
said it was reasonable that D&G didnt pay the difference in cost for a replacement washing 
machine. D&G was also within its rights to close Mr Us account and withdraw cover. 
However, D&G caused some confusion when it agreed to pay a cash settlement for the 
washing machine and also by taking some payments for warranties that had then been set 
up in error. She said D&G should pay £75 compensation and refund, with interest, the 
payments taken in error.
As Mr U didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
When Mr U first reported an issue with the washing machine, following attempts to repair it, 
D&G arranged for a replacement. The policy for Mr Us washing machine was also 
cancelled. The new machine then seemed to develop a fault. Ultimately, D&G agreed to pay 
a cash settlement to allow Mr U to replace the washing machine. This appears to have been 
outside of D&Gs normal practice of asking a consumer to deal with the issue under the 
manufacturers warranty, although it did initially ask Mr U to do this. 
D&G paid Mr U £499, which was the recommended retail price for the washing machine. 
This decision seems to have been taken in discussion with the washing machine 
manufacturer and supplier, during which D&G agreed to make the payment on condition that 
it would be reimbursed by them. Mr U wanted to be paid a further £300 because he said the 
washing machine was only available from one retailer, which was selling it for £799. Ive 
thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded that D&G should pay a further £300. If a 
particular retailer was selling the same washing machine for considerably more than the 
normal retail price, I dont think that meant D&G had to match that price. However, given 
there was no policy in place with D&G and the payment seemed to be made on behalf of the 
supplier and manufacturer, I can see that D&G refunding the payment could have caused Mr 
U some confusion. I will return to this later in my decision.
D&G also cancelled Mr Us warranties. The policy for the washing machine was cancelled 
because the machine was replaced under the policy. This is what the policy terms and 
conditions said would happen. Around the same time, D&G wrote to Mr U to give him notice 
that it would be withdrawing any cover, including any new cover taken out, due to 
suspicious claims activity, which it said was because of:
a. Unusual claims patterns, high volumes of accidental damage claims; and complaints 
logged to have the unit written off.
b.Claims that are made very soon after the plans have been purchased.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions and these said if there was a valid reason D&G could 
cancel a policy by giving at least seven days notice. The terms and conditions of the policy 
also said the product needed to be in good working order. Ive looked at the information D&G 
provided to Mr U and to this service, including about the frequency and timing of claims. 
Having done so, I think D&G acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when it 
said it wouldnt continue to provide Mr U with cover and I havent seen anything to suggest it 
acted unreasonably by doing so.
A short while later, Mr U contacted D&G to take out new policies for a cooker and some 
audio equipment. Both of these policies were set up and D&G started to take payments. Im 
also aware that Mr U made a claim on both policies. However, when D&G realised these 
policies were in place it cancelled them. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
D&G had already told Mr U that it wasnt willing to provide cover for his appliances. When Mr 
U then contacted D&G to take out new policies, although he was able to do so, D&G then 
cancelled the policies shortly after when internal checks highlighted this had happened. Mr U 
then contacted D&G again to reinstate the policies, which it did, and it started to take further 
payments. When D&G carried out checks it again cancelled the policies. Im also aware that 
D&G wrote to Mr U inviting him to reactivate a policy. This appeared to be an automatically 
generated letter sent to policyholders inviting them to reactivate their account when they 
cancelled a direct debit. 
I can see that these issues would have caused Mr U some confusion about whether D&G 
was still willing to offer him a policy. But, I dont think it meant D&G then had to continue to 
insure his appliances or deal with any claims. D&G had already made Mr U aware that it was 
unwilling to offer him cover. When D&G realised new policies had been setup, I think it was 
reasonable that it cancelled them and was consistent with what Mr U had previously been 
told. However, D&G didnt seem to refund the payments Mr U had made when he took out 
these policies, which given the policies shouldnt have been setup at all, it should have done.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think the amount D&G paid to Mr U was reasonable in 
the circumstances and that it was entitled to cancel Mr Us policy and to decide it wouldnt 
offer him new policies. However, there was clearly confusion caused to Mr U both when he 
was able to set up new policies, including D&G taking payments, as well as when he was sent a letter inviting him to reactivate a policy. As a result, D&G should pay Mr U £75 
compensation due to the distress and inconvenience caused by the confusion around the 
cover provided. It should also ensure that the payments are refunded for the policies Mr U 
took out on the cooker and the audio equipment after he had already been told D&G was no 
longer willing to offer him cover. D&G should also pay interest on each of those payments, 
as Mr U lost use of the money from the point at which each payment was taken.
  
Putting things right
D&G should pay Mr U £75 compensation and refund the payments taken for the new 
policies that were set up after D&G said it would no longer provide cover, along with interest 
on the refunded payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint in part. I require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mr U £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
For the policies set up after it gave notice that it was no longer willing to provide cover, 
refund Mr U each of the payments it took for those policies.
Pay 8% simple interest on each of those payments for the policies from the date on 
which they were taken to the date on which they are refunded.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman