DRN-3268813
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) declined a third-party 
claim made under his motor insurance policy, and also about the level of excess on his 
policy. 
What happened
Mr S held an insurance policy with Calpe (branded as XS Direct) at the relevant time, which 
had an all sections excess of £3,000. Unfortunately, he was involved in an accident in 
December 2019 and the third party involved in the accident made a claim against his policy, 
although Mr S denied being at fault for the accident. Calpe declined the third-party claim and 
said that Mr S wasnt covered by his policy as it didnt include commuting, and hed been 
returning from work at the time of the accident.
Mr S complained to Calpe after the third-party wrote to Mr S in June 2021 to pursue the cost 
of repair to his vehicle in the sum of just over £2,000. Mr S thought that Calpe should deal 
with this claim. Mr S also said that the fact that there was a £3,000 excess on his policy 
wasnt made clear to him when he took out his policy. Calpe maintained its position and Mr S 
then made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered that Calpe hadnt acted in a fair and reasonable way and that it 
shouldnt have declined the claim. She said that this was because commuting would have 
been offered for a small additional premium of just under £35. She thought a fair outcome 
would be for Calpe to accept the claim under the policy in line with the policy terms.
As to the excess of £3,000, our investigator thought that Calpe had been clear in its policy 
documents and had given Mr S the opportunity to review the information and tell Calpe if 
anything was wrong or needed changing. She thought that Mr S needed to pay the costs of 
the claim up to the amount of the £3,000 excess in the circumstances.
Our investigator was mindful that Mr S had been subject to financial worry about the damage 
to his car as well as  the third-party costs. She said Mr S wouldnt have had this extent of 
worry if Calpe had accepted his claim. In the circumstances, she thought Calpe should pay 
Mr S £150 compensation. In addition, if there was damage to Mr Ss car which hed been 
unable to claim for, she expected Calpe to consider the damage caused to it also.
Calpe remained of the view that Mr S had breached the terms and conditions of his policy 
and that it was entitled to decline the third-party claim. Even if Mr S had been entitled to 
claim, Calpe stated that, due to the £3,000 excess, Mr S would have been responsible for 
the repair costs in any event. It said that, as neither approach would result in any payment to 
Mr S, it didnt agree it should pay him any compensation. 
Mr S remains dissatisfied with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for me to consider whether Calpe declined the third-party claim on a fair and reasonable 
basis. I dont consider that it did for the reasons which follow. Its also for me to consider 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Calpe to rely upon the excess of £3,000 in its policy 
documents. I consider that it was, again for the reasons which follow. I then explain what I 
expect Calpe to do to put things rights, bearing in mind my overall conclusion.
Calpe said that the policy which Mr S bought through a comparison website, covered social, 
domestic and pleasure use only. It considered that Mr S had been given clear options when 
he bought his policy.The question; what do you use the car for? had drop-down choices 
which included social only and social including commuting to a single place of work. It said 
that Mr S selected social only.
As the accident occurred when on the journey home from Mr Ss place of work, Calpe said 
that Mr S had breached the terms and conditions of his policy and that it was therefore 
entitled to decline the claim. Calpe argued that when Mr S purchased his policy, hed 
accepted the terms and conditions of the policy, which included the condition that he would 
be financially responsible for all costs up to £3,000.  
Calpe also noted that if Mr S had declared that hed be using his car for commuting, then an 
additional premium of just under £35 would have been charged. It said that Mr Ss policy had 
since been amended to cover commuting.
Calpe didnt comment as to whether it considered Mr Ss representation regarding the use of 
his car when he bought his policy, was reckless or deliberate on the one hand, or careless 
on the other. It didnt appear to have addressed the claim in this way. It considered that it 
was entitled to rely on its rights as Article 75 insurers.
Mr S said that hed requested a policy excess of £250 when the policy began and that it was 
only when the claim came to his attention that he realised the excess was £3,000. He said 
that he wouldnt have taken the policy out if hed understood that the excess was this 
amount. He considered this to be unfair as hed paid approximately £2,000 a year for his 
insurance and had never previously made a claim or missed any payment.
I see from Calpes case notes of January 2020 that Mr S was not intending, at that stage, to 
make a claim on his policy for the damage to his cars wing and near-side bumper.
Ive considered all the evidence and what Calpe and Mr S say here. I agree with our 
investigator that an insurer should not decline a claim unreasonably. We consider what is fair 
and reasonable looking at the overall circumstances, even if use of a vehicle by a 
policyholder is outside the terms of the policy.
The Financial Ombudsman Services approach is that Article 75 of the Motor Insurance
Bureau Articles of Association can apply automatically if the use of the vehicle is other than
that permitted under the policy, as in this case. Article 75 has to be interpreted in accordance
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
provisions however, and the Act therefore trumps Article 75 in these circumstances.
CIDRA is the starting point therefore. The Act says that its the duty of the consumer to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer. If a misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless, an insurer may avoid the insurance contract and refuse all claims.If a consumer fails to take care, the insurer has certain remedies it can rely upon, provided 
the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. If the 
insurer would still have provided a policy, but charged a higher premium to do so, it can 
reduce the amount it pays on a proportionate basis. 
Its clear then that Mr Ss policy didnt cover commuting and he didnt have adequate
cover in place. I consider that he therefore made a misrepresentation as he was using his 
car to travel to and from work. I also consider it to be a qualifying misrepresentation. Mr S 
was asked a clear question as to the use he would make of his car. The box he clicked 
referred to use for social purposes and not the box which included commuting. Mr S was 
candid when he discussed the incident details with one of Calpes representatives and was 
clear that he was commuting at the time of the incident. 
Im satisfied that Mr S made a genuine but careless mistake when he clicked the box which 
referred to social purposes only. He said that as he drove a certain distance and then took 
other transport to work, he hadnt considered this to be commuting. I note that if Mr S had 
requested cover for commuting, it would have been offered by Calpe. I dont consider that it 
was fair or reasonable for Calpe to have refused to act on behalf of its policyholder in these 
circumstances. I consider that it should have engaged with the third-party insurers. 
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy documents and note that the policy booklet states as follows; -
...failing to report an incident may increase your liability for your excess as accident 
management companies, solicitors and lawyers firms may encourage third parties to make a 
claim and their involvement may significantly increase the costs of this claim.
When an incident is reported to us early we can make contact with these third parties and 
reduce the involvement of accident management companies, solicitors and lawyers firms 
which may help to reduce the overall value of the claim.
Although there is no indication that additional costs of this nature have yet been claimed, by 
declining the third-party claim on the grounds that it did, Im satisfied that Mr S was deprived 
of the potential benefits of his insurance policy. If it had continued to act, its possible that 
Calpe would have reasonably decided to contest the third-party claim or to settle the matter 
on a shared basis between the parties. At present, Mr S is not receiving this assistance from 
Calpe. No admissions were made by either party and, had Mr S not made a mistake when 
taking out his policy, Calpe would have engaged in further dialogue with Mr S and carried 
out further investigations regarding the accident before deciding whether to contest the 
claim.
As to the £3,000 excess, again, Ive looked at the policy documents and see that the booklet 
clearly sets out the reason for the level of excess as follows: -
We hope to provide you with all the cover you need at a price you will be happy to pay. We 
do this by asking you to pay a larger excess of the first part of the claim which is shown on 
your Schedule of insurance. By you agreeing to pay this amount in the event of any claim 
even where there is no damage or claim to your own vehicle, we can provide you with a 
cheaper premium for your motor insurance
If the damage is not greater than the Excess amount, the Policyholder undertakes to pay/ 
repay the Underwriters immediately on demand the Excess amount. or any part thereof in 
respect of any claim arising under this Policy. The Excess applies to damage or injury 
claimed by a third party For example, if You are involved in an incident where a third party makes a claim against You and there is no damage to Your Car, You will be liable to pay 
The Underwriters the amount up to the value of Your Excess. If You are deemed liable for 
any such claims, The Underwriters will make payments on Your behalf to settle the claim on 
the best terms available It is therefore imperative and in Your interest to co-operate fully 
with XS Direct in settling any claim to allow every opportunity to reduce the claims cost
Mr Ss policy schedule clearly refers to a total excess of £3,000 for all sections and likewise, 
the product information document states, in relation to key exclusions, that a policyholder 
must pay the first £3,000 of each and every claim made. I note however that Mr S said that 
at the outset, hed requested a policy excess of £250 and only noticed the excess was 
£3,000 when he made the claim. 
Im satisfied however, from the policy documents and welcome pack, that this unusually high 
excess figure is flagged on a number of occasions. The fact that Mr S renewed his insurance 
with Calpe in the knowledge of the £3,000 excess means that, on the balance of 
probabilities, he knowingly accepted this excess at the outset. I dont consider it unfair or 
unreasonable for Calpe to rely on it.
As detailed above, I therefore consider that Calpe must accept the claim as one which is 
covered by the policy terms and conditions and to deal with the third-party insurers 
accordingly. Mr S must pay up to the excess amount if Calpe carries out full investigations 
and reasonably decides to settle the claim on a shared basis or alternatively in favour of the 
third-party. Without having engaged in this proper dialogue with Mr S however, or without 
conducting reasonable investigations, its by no means clear that Calpe should accept 
liability for the third-partys claim. 
In the circumstances, I consider that Calpe has clear obligations to deal with the claim and 
accept or challenge it as appropriate, having met the usual industry standards in terms of 
reasonable investigations in the interests of its policyholder.
In cases like this, CIDRA says that if the insurer would still have sold the policy but would
have charged a higher premium, it may reduce proportionately the amount paid on a claim.
Calpe would still have sold Mr S the policy but charged a very slightly higher premium if it
had covered Mr S for commuting. It did so later, after Mr S added commuting to his
policy. In the circumstances, subject to the excess figure, I consider that Mr S should be 
covered for the appropriate proportion of any settlement of the claim (98.5%). I dont think it 
would have produced a fair and reasonable result if Id allowed Calpe to turn down Mr Ss 
claim, given that hed paid 98.5% of the premium he should have paid to ensure full
commuting cover.
As to compensation, I consider that the figure recommended by our investigator was entirely 
reasonable in all the circumstances, to recognise the additional stress and inconvenience Mr 
S has experienced in facing a claim which should have been handled on his behalf by Calpe. 
I also note our investigators recommendation in the light of the following wording in the 
policy booklet; - 
In instances where You have suffered damage to Your Car but have chosen not to claim on 
this insurance in respect of that damage You are still liable to pay the Excess amount in 
respect of any Third Party claim or any other payments made by the Underwriters arising 
from the same event. No reduction of the Excess amount in respect of these payments will 
apply because of Your choosing to make no claim under this insurance in respect of damage 
to Your Car unless the following requirements are met: 
(a) The damage to Your Car is reported to Us within 14 days of the event. 
(b) We have agreed the value of such damage at the time prior to any repair proceeding. (c) Any value of such damage up to an amount of £500 must be supported by an estimate 
for the repair of such damage to be approved by Us and to be submitted to Us within 14 
days of the event. 
(d) Any value of such damage in excess of £500 must be supported and approved by an 
assessment of one of Our appointed assessors to whom access to the vehicle has been 
provided within one month of the event. 
Subject to compliance with the requirements of this clause the Underwriters will deduct the 
agreed value of any damage to Your Car from the Excess amount payable in respect of that 
third-party claim.
Calpe should therefore also deal with damage to Mr Ss own car in accordance with this 
provision as appropriate, again applying the appropriate proportion (98.5%). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and, to put things right, I require 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited to; -
- deal with the third-party claim on a proportionate basis (98.5%), as if Mr S had been 
covered for commuting under his policy from the outset.
- deal with damage to Mr Ss own car on a proportionate basis (98.5%) in accordance 
with the relevant provision of his policy as appropriate.
- pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by Calpes 
handling of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman