DRN-3700535
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
wouldnt let her withdraw her funds from a fixed-term savings account.
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs W applied for a fixed-term savings account over the phone with Tesco. 
She agreed to deposit £150,000 for a 12-month fixed term and opted to have interest 
payable upon maturity. At the time, Tesco was offering a rate of 1.71%. 
Mrs W transferred the funds to the savings account on 28 April 2022. On 11 May 2022, 
Mrs W contacted Tesco to say she wanted to cancel the account and apply for an account 
with a higher rate that Tesco was now offering. Tesco explained that it wasnt able to cancel 
the account once funded, and because the account was a fixed-term savings account, the 
funds would be locked in until the end of the term.
Unhappy with Tescos position, Mrs W complained. She said Tesco ought to have offered 
her a cooling off period in line with The Financial Services (Distance Marketing) Regulations 
2004 before it locked in her funds. She accepted there were some exceptions to the 
legislation, but she didnt think those applied. Mrs W also raised concerns about her calls 
with Tesco being disconnected.
Tescos final response pointed out the applicable terms and conditions explained there was 
no cooling off period, but it did pay Mrs W £100 for the poor experience shed had when calls 
werent returned as promised.
Mrs W referred her complaint to this service  but only regarding the cooling off period. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded Tesco had provided clear 
information in the terms and conditions, and that the cooling off period didnt apply for that 
particular product. 
Mrs W disagreed. She raised further concerns that as her funds exceeded the FSCS 
protection limit, she could lose a substantial sum of money should Tesco fail so, shes asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs W feels let down by Tesco. She thinks it should have allowed her to cancel 
the account in line with The Distance Marketing Regulations. I want to assure Mrs W that I 
have considered everything she has said carefully including the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules and good industry practice. But, Im sorry to disappoint her - I have reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator for much the same reasons.
Mrs W believes a cooling off period should apply here, but she hasnt said she was told 
shed have such a period by Tesco. And as the investigator explained, not all fixed-rate 
savings products come with an automatic right to cancel or cooling-off period.
At the time of Mrs W applying for the account, Tesco was authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms 
are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(BCOBS).
Specifically, BCOBS 6.1.2 R 01/11/2009 says there is no right to cancel:
1. (1) a contract (other than a cash deposit ISA) where the rate or rates of interest 
payable on the deposit are fixed for a period of time following conclusion of the 
contract; 
2. (2) a contract whose price depends on fluctuations in the financial market outside the 
firm's control that may occur during the cancellation period; or
3. (3) a cash deposit CTF (other than a distance contract). 
In this particular case the law doesnt afford Mrs W such protection so, I find Tescos 
response reasonable given that it has complied with the rules set by the industry regulator- 
the FCA. 
Ive considered both the phone call Mrs W had with Tesco prior to opening the account as 
well as the correspondence it sent to her soon after. In my view, the content of the call 
clearly set out that there were no cancellation rights or withdrawal of the account once it had 
been funded, unless in very specific circumstances i.e. death, terminal illness, bankruptcy 
etc.
With regard to the correspondence, specifically the account opening letter and the account 
terms and conditions, its evident Mrs W was told once your funds are deposited, there are 
no withdrawals permitted until your maturity date. Im satisfied the account opened on 
28 April 2022, so the fixed rate period had already started when Mrs W rang Tesco to 
change her rate. It follows then that Im not persuaded Tesco did anything wrong when it told 
Mrs W, she couldnt close the account or withdraw the money. 
On a final point, Mrs W has mentioned that her the sum in her savings account exceeds the 
FSCS protection limit and she is concerned she could lose the difference between the 
amount she had invested and the maximum protection amount. Whilst I acknowledge Mrs 
Ws position, I cant hold Tesco at fault for her deciding to deposit more than £85,000. The 
FCSC limits are not set by Tesco, so not something it is able to change. In any event, the 
protection limits would only be applicable if Tesco were to fail, which hasnt happened, so Im 
also not persuaded there has been any impact to Mrs W.
In light of everything Ive seen, I think the £100 Tesco has paid Mrs W for handling her 
queries poorly was fair. I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs W hoped for. But, for the reasons 
Ive given, I dont think Tesco made an error here. That means I cant uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint or require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman