DRN-1671255
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave her loans 
irresponsibly.                         
What happened 
This complaint is about 10 loans Sunny provided to Mrs A between January 2015 and 
February 2016. 
Heres a table showing details of those loans: 
 
Loan 
Date
Taken 
Date
Repaid 
Instalments 
Amount
120/01/2015 13/02/2015 24 £450.00
208/03/2015 01/05/2015 24 £600.00
316/04/2015 15/05/2015 24 £300.00
405/05/2015 02/06/2015 24 £400.00
518/05/2015 02/06/2015 24 £200.00
623/06/2015 26/06/2015 24 £300.00
711/07/2015 04/09/2015 24 £600.00
811/08/2015 11/09/2015 24 £250.00
901/09/2015 16/10/2015 24 £350.00
10 29/02/2016 09/03/2016 24 £50.00
 
Mrs A mainly said that Sunny failed to carry out effective affordability checks before lending 
to her. She felt that had proper checks been done then Sunny wouldve seen that the loans 
werent affordable for her and so wouldnt have loaned to her. Our adjudicator investigated and came to the overall view that whilst loans 1-6 hadnt been 
unfair, the pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 7 onwards the borrowing was 
unsustainable  so Sunny shouldnt have given Mrs A loan 7 or any of the loans that 
followed. Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt Sunny should take to put things right for 
Mrs A.
Sunny didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter  but it offered to uphold 
the complaint from loan 9 onwards. Sunny sent details showing how it would work out the 
refund it was willing to pay to settle Mrs As complaint. 
We passed this information on to Mrs A. The offer falls short of what our adjudicator 
recommended and Mrs A told us she doesnt want to accept Sunnys offer  shed like an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. So the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What I've decided - and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mrs A could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs As complaint.
I agree with our adjudicator about loans 1 - 6. I havent seen enough information fairly to be 
able to say that Sunny shouldnt have provided these loans. And, as it seems Mrs A hasnt 
objected to what our adjudicator said about not upholding these loans, then I don't think 
I need say more about loans 1-6. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs A with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs As case, I think by loan 7 Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have 
realised:
Mrs A was not managing to repay her loans sustainably. By the time she asked for 
loan 7, Mrs A had already been paying Sunny loans for the last 6 months in a row. 
Ive taken into account that Sunny says this couldve just been Mrs As way of 
attempting to organise her borrowings for separate or urgent matters. But looking at 
her borrowing record, Sunny could see that Mrs A had repeatedly taken out loans in 
quick succession, sometimes starting a new loan before previous lending was repaid. 
This suggests to me that she was finding it hard to manage her finances in a well 
planned way and I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to think that Mrs A was 
now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan - rather this record 
of borrowing indicates ongoing money problems. 
 
Successfully repaying her loans doesnt mean Mrs A managed to do so in a 
sustainable way. Borrowing and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me 
that Mrs As finances were not in a stable position and she was having problems 
managing her money.
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs A was borrowing further 
to cover the hole repaying each previous loan was leaving in her finances rather than 
using the loans for their intended purpose of helping her manage a temporary or 
unexpected cash flow problem. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But I dont think its offer goes far enough. For the reasons Ive explained, 
I think Sunny shouldve seen that by the time Mrs A took out loan 7 there were clear signs 
that she had become reliant on this sort of expensive credit. So it shouldve realised then that it was unfair to continue lending to her. And Sunny shouldnt have provided loan 7  or 
any of the loans that followed. 
I think that Mrs A lost out when Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs As indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time 
 
the number of loans which Mrs A borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on Mrs As ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans. 
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 7 through to 10. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs A towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 7-10, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs A which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Sunny should pay Mrs A the total of "A" plus "B".
D. The overall pattern of Mrs As borrowing from the point of loan 7 means any 
information recorded about this loan and the loans that followed is adverse. So all 
entries about loans 7-10 should be removed from Mrs As credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs As complaint about loans 7-10. Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should pay Mrs A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman