DRN-3205124
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to the way in which an 
HSBC adviser spoke to Mrs P when she called to discuss their mortgage.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs P have a mortgage with HSBC. In January 2021 they called HSBC to discuss it. 
Mr P was taken through security by the adviser since he had initiated the call, but Mrs P was 
not. Some little while into the call Mrs P began to speak to the adviser at which point the 
adviser said he couldnt speak to her about the mortgage account as she hadnt been 
verified. He asked Mrs P to give the handset back to her husband and it is here in respect of 
this part of the call that Mrs P feels he was rude.
HSBC didnt think they had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and 
Mrs P were unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
concluded that there had been poor service by HSBC as it could have offered to take Mrs P 
through security rather than ask her to simply put her husband back on the phone. The 
investigator thought HSBC should pay compensation of £75 to Mr and Mrs P and that would 
be a fair and reasonable resolution. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive listened to the call and having done so heard that once Mr P had been verified by the 
adviser he began to ask questions. Mrs P can be heard in the background, and it becomes 
clear that she is talking to Mr P to give him information to put to the adviser. He does so on a 
couple of occasions and then without warning Mrs P takes over the call and talks directly to 
the adviser asking a question. The adviser interrupts Mrs P to say he cannot speak to her 
and she explains that she is a party to the mortgage. The adviser explains that he still cannot 
speak to her because she has not been verified and so she asks for that to be done.
It is at this point that the adviser asked Mrs P to put Mr P back on the phone. In my view that 
was poor service since he should and could have easily taken Mrs P through security 
verification as she asked. The adviser later explained that he was asking for Mr P to be put 
back on the phone because it would save time, but this wasnt explained to Mrs P. That said, 
in my view the adviser was not rude. I can understand that Mrs P would have been annoyed 
and upset by the adviser not taking her through security, but his responses to her were 
simply regarding the absence of verification and were not rude. 
In response to our investigators view Mrs P has said she thinks the call recording has been 
edited as she feels Mr Ps voice has been altered and part of what she said is missing. I 
have no way of knowing whether it has or hasnt. I appreciate Mrs P says she recalls saying 
I hope this call is recorded and that doesnt appear on the call recording Ive listened to. 
However, even if that had been said, it would not affect the recording of the precise part 
where the adviser asked Mrs P to put her husband back on the phone, and that is the 
relevant part since that is where Mrs P says the adviser was rude. Additionally, I think it 
unlikely that an HSBC employee would try to edit or otherwise doctor a call recording since 
to do so would be to commit a criminal offence and it is difficult to see the motive for doing 
so since there would be no personal advantage for that person.
I have noted that Mr and Mrs P have questioned whether there was an element of 
discrimination involved in not accepting Mrs P as having equal status to that of her husband. 
From my interpretation of the call I cannot see that the adviser was being discriminatory, 
rather he was endeavouring to ensure that the security procedures were adhered to. 
Since our investigators view was issued, HSBC has agreed to pay £75 to Mr and Mrs P but 
as they didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some further thought. 
The issue for me is what is a reasonable amount of compensation. When we make awards 
of compensation we categorise them and examples of these can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures.
In this case I havent found that the adviser was rude, but I have found he could have offered 
to take Mrs P through security. She and her husband were however able to conclude their 
business on that call and there was no greater effect upon Mrs P other than the 
inconvenience of being unable to ask the adviser the questions she wanted to herself.
Putting things right
 Putting all of this into the balance in my view £75 is a fair sum and that is what I think HSBC 
should pay to Mr and Mrs P to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
 HSBC UK Bank Plc shall pay to Mr and Mrs P £75 to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman