DRN-2039887
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money, who Ill refer to as 
Madison) recorded a default on his credit file. Hes also unhappy with the way Madison has 
handled his complaint.
What happened
Mr J took out a loan with Madison in July 2018. In November 2018, he notified Madison that 
he would be unable to pay the November payment, but would be able to make the 
December 2018 payment. Madison contacted Mr J in January 2019 and asked for a 
payment of the arrears to be made to bring the account back on track and offered Mr J a 
payment arrangement. Mr J made the necessary payments and Madison confirmed the 
account was up to date.
In June 2019, the account was again in arrears and Mr J was told by Madison that would 
have a negative impact on his credit file if it remained unpaid. Mr J agreed to make monthly 
payments and a payment arrangement was made for the following three months.
In August 2019, Madison notified Mr J that there were arrears on the account and said they 
werent able to move the arrears to the end of the loan. They did agree that the arrears could 
be gradually reduced if Mr J increased his payments each month. However, only a small part 
of the August payment was made. 
Mr J was late in making his September 2019 payment, and was told by Madison that the 
arrears were still outstanding. He was again advised that his credit record could be 
impacted, as there was no payment agreement in place to clear the arrears.
In September 2019, Madison sent Mr J an arrears letter telling him that there were arrears 
on the account, from June 2019, and hed need to clear the arrears by the end of 
September.
Mr J complained about the way Madison was communicating with him because he found it 
confusing, and at times, harassing. 
In December 2019, Mr J paid the arrears and made further payments in February, April and 
May 2020.
Mr J asked Madison to remove the default on his credit file, apologise and pay him 
compensation.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained that 
businesses are required to provide an accurate record of an account to the credit reference 
agencies. She said the information provided by Madison to the credit reference agency 
accurately reflected the account activity, and the default was recorded correctly. She 
explained that when the loan is settled that will show on the account. So, although future 
lenders will be able see that Mr J was struggling to make his payments at that time, they will 
see that in the end he settled the loan.
With regard to Mr Js complaint about how he was spoken to on the phone when contacting 
Madison, after listening to the call our investigator didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators view. He said that all he was asking for was that the 
default be removed from his file to resolve the issue. Our investigator explained that as the 
default hadnt been wrongly notified she wouldnt be asking Madison to remove it. She did 
suggest that Mr J could ask the credit reference agency to add an explanatory note to the 
credit report in the meantime. She explained that once the loan had been paid off, it would 
show as settled on the credit agreement.
Mr J requested an ombudsmans decision on his complaint and provided some additional 
information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Madison to do any more in relation to Mr Js complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
Mr Js complaint to this service is that Madison registered a default against him when hed 
only missed one months payment and they refused to remove the default once hed paid off 
the arrears. 
Our investigators view set out a comprehensive timeline of contacts between Madison and 
Mr J. Ill not repeat it as the parties have already seen it. But it accurately reflects the contact 
notes Ive seen.
A business that reports a customers account conduct to a credit reference agency is 
required to report accurate information. As Mr J was in arrears of payments this has to be 
recorded, so I cant say Madison did anything wrong in reporting the arrears.
Im satisfied Madison acted fairly and in line with their responsibilities to record the default on 
Mr Js credit file following the issue of the notice of default. They explained this may happen 
in their communications with Mr J and it was also set out in the terms and conditions of the 
credit agreement in section 3 under the heading consequences of missing payments.
Ive also listened to the call that Mr J has complained about, and I agree with our investigator 
that Madison didnt speak to Mr J in an unprofessional or inappropriate way, so Im also not 
upholding this element of his complaint. 
While I understand how disappointed Mr J is, for the reasons set out above, Im unable to 
conclude that Madison made an error in how it reported on Mr Js account, to the credit 
reference agency. Im also unable to conclude that Madison treated Mr J unfairly when he 
spoke to them on the telephone. Im therefore not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint 
against Madison CF UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman