DRN-3050461
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) havent 
allowed him to cancel a finance agreement. He also says the agreement was mis-sold to him 
and that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a personal contract purchase (PCP) a type of hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is 
able to look into complaints about it. 
cancelation rights
Mr H says that as he asked to cancel his agreement after only seven days and as the car 
was sold to him at a distance, MBFS were wrong to deny him that right.
The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 
2013 (CCR) give consumers the right to cancel goods within 14 days in certain 
circumstances. But there are exclusions and one of those exclusions is when the contract is 
a hire purchase agreement. That type of agreement isnt covered by the CCR because it has 
its own cancellation rights. 
The terms of the finance agreement Mr H entered into explain that:
You have the right to withdraw from this agreement, without giving any reason for doing so.
The period within which you can withdraw commences from the day after the start date of 
this agreement and end 14 calendar days later and If you do choose to withdraw, you will 
then be liable to repay the amount of credit to us without delay.
Those were the rights Mr H had if he wished to cancel his agreement.
Mr H has explained that he felt rushed, has dyslexia and that he wasnt think particularly 
clearly because of recent ill health. This agreement was signed from home so I think its 
likely Mr H will have had some time to consider the contract and I think its fair to suggest it 
was his responsibility to understand the contract he was entering into. Im not persuaded 
there is sufficient evidence he was denied that opportunity.
mis-selling
If Mr H was told something that was wrong, or wasnt told something that was very 
important, and that led him to enter into a contract he would not otherwise have entered into, 
I may think the contract was mis-sold to him and ask MBFS to take some further action.
Mr H says the business didnt ask him about the power supply to his home and he therefore 
didnt understand the need for a smart meter in order to benefit from the best tariffs.
This was a hybrid vehicle and I think its reasonable to expect Mr H to have gathered enough 
information to understand the charging needs of his car prior to his purchase. I dont think 
those charging requirements would have changed if he did have conversations with the 
dealership. It seems that a smart meter would always have been a requirement in order to 
obtain the best tariffs. So, even if I were to accept Mr H should have been told about the 
charging requirements in greater detail I dont think I have enough evidence to suggest that 
would have led him not to proceed with the deal.
Mr H says he was told the display would be 10 but it was only 7. Ive not seen enough 
evidence to support Mr Hs assertion and Im not persuaded that if he was given false 
information, about the size and functionality of the display, it would have led him not to enter 
into the agreement.
no charge in the car and some initial mileage
Mr H is upset that when he collected the car there was no charge in it. This was a hybrid 
vehicle so it was possible to drive it and develop charge and, whilst I understand it would 
have been preferable, I dont think the car had to be fully charged on supply. Mr H says 
leaving the car uncharged for a prolonged period could cause damage but Ive not seen 
evidence of either so I dont think it would be fair to ask MBFS to take any action.
I can see Mr H is also upset about the delivery mileage on the car. Whilst I understand this 
was a brand-new car that Mr H was collecting I think its reasonable to expect a very limited 
delivery mileage and I dont think 25 miles is unreasonable.
paint and leather protection
This isnt included in the finance agreement and is not something I can therefore fairly hold 
MBFS responsible for.
faults with the windows and rattlingThese arent issues that have been referred to MBFS and Mr H will need to give them the 
opportunity to review that complaint before referring it to this service if he remains 
dissatisfied.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman