DRN-1540722
The complaint
Mr W complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wrongly declined 
a claim he made on his motor breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
When Mr Ws van broke down it was taken to garage A for assessment. Mr W said one of 
garage As engineers told him the engine had burned out due to a total lack of oil. He said as 
there was no sign of a leak, the oil must have been drained from the sump deliberately, in 
order to cause damage to the vehicle. 
LVs engineer inspected the engine. He noted that the garage had found the sump plug to be 
tightly screwed on when the van arrived for inspection and that the oil warning light wasnt 
working. The engineer thought it was very unlikely that someone had drained the sump. In 
his view the oil had burned off and had leaked out of old seals. He told LV that a second 
engineer from garage A also thought a mechanical failure had occurred. Mr W later told LV 
hed had work done on the oil filter and oil seals in November 2018, which led it to believe 
there was a pre-existing problem.
LV then instructed an independent engineer to inspect the van. He noted numerous leaks 
around the engine - as well as a lot of carbon and oil residue - and that the oil warning light 
wasnt working. He questioned why someone would drain the sump, let alone refit the plug to 
it afterwards. In his view, the breakdown was caused by mechanical wear and tear.  
As Mr W didnt think LV should have declined his claim, he complained to this service. One 
of our investigators reviewed his complaint. In his opinion, the evidence from LVs engineer 
and the independent engineer were more persuasive than the view of garage As engineer. 
As damage to the vehicle due to mechanical failure was excluded from the policy, he thought 
it was reasonable for LV to decline the claim. 
Mr W said hed maintained the van well and the oil light was working until the day of the 
breakdown. He said the independent engineer should have inspected the engine sooner in 
order to determine whether there was mechanical failure or malicious damage. He said that 
in July 2019 (two months after the incident) hed taken photos of an oil patch on the ground 
where the van was parked on the day of the breakdown. He said hed send them to us. As 
there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as I can see, theres no evidence to support Mr Ws view that the oil was drained from 
the van whilst he left it for a few hours in a car park at a beauty spot. Two engineers told LV 
they thought it very unlikely that someone would go to the trouble of doing that (and theyd 
have had to have the right tool in order to do it). The engineers also couldnt understand why 
- assuming someone released all the oil - that the person would then spend time refitting the 
plug tightly back into the sump. I can see why the engineers raised those concerns. 
Initially, Mr W said he didnt know who might have drained the oil. Later on, he said he had 
reason to believe an acquaintance of his had done it. He reported that to the police, who 
took no action due to the lack of evidence. In the circumstances, I think it was fair for UKI to 
rely on the views of its own engineer and the independent engineer on this issue.   
Mr W didnt tell LV that hed seen any oil spillage around the van on the day of the incident, 
although LVs engineer said that up to four litres of oil would have poured out from the sump. 
Mr W suggested that whoever drained the oil must have collected it in a container. But he 
went back to the scene in July 2019 to check for any sign of oil on the ground anyway. Mr W 
sent us photos of what hed found in February 2020. But in my opinion the photos dont show 
clear evidence that supports Mr Ws assumptions.
In my view, LVs engineer and the independent engineer both arrived at a more plausible 
conclusion about the breakdown. They found signs of old oil leaks and residue in the engine, 
plus heavy carbon deposits. The garage had told them the oil warning light wasnt working  
and they both found that was the case. They thought the van was in poor condition 
generally. Both engineers concluded that the breakdown was due to mechanical failure and 
suspected that poor maintenance may have been a factor. 
I dont think it made any difference to the outcome that the independent engineer didnt 
inspect the engine until several weeks after the breakdown. An independent engineers 
overriding duty is to the court, not to LV. I think its fair to say that had the engineer not felt 
able to comment on the cause of the damage he would have said so.
The policy doesnt cover damage to an insured vehicle caused by wear and tear or 
mechanical failure. I think LV had persuasive evidence that the damage to Mr Ws van was 
caused by mechanical failure. In my opinion, Mr W couldnt show that there was a reason for 
the damage that was covered by the policy. 
As I think it was reasonable for LV to decline Mr Ws claim, I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman