DRN-2461980
The complaint
Mr Is complaint concerns his investment portfolio, including the investment in the Strategic 
Investment allocation Fund (SIA), within his pension. He says he invested on the basis of 
Standard Lifes (now Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited) assurances about how the 
investment would be run and that it was performing well. He says it had not been performing 
well when he invested and was being questioned by third parties at the time. He also says 
that he asked Standard Life to trickle his money into the fund, but this was not done, his 
investment in the SIA fell dramatically in the period in which he invested, the maintenance of 
the investment percentage of the SIA within his portfolio exacerbated the losses and 
Standard Life did not manage his investment appropriately.  
What happened
As Aberdeen takes responsibility for this complaint, I will refer to it throughout as the 
manager of Mr Is portfolio. 
After taking advice from his financial adviser, Mr I invested in Aberdeens portfolio in 2015 
and disinvested in 2018. After allowing for withdrawals, he suffered an investment loss. 
Aberdeen considered Mr Is complaint but did not uphold it. It said that it had managed his 
fund in line with the agreed mandate and attitude to risk as agreed with his financial adviser. 
It said that it did not guarantee the performance of the investment and there was risk with the 
investment. It said it had no record of an instruction to invest gradually and it had followed 
the investment instructions given by Mr Is financial adviser. It also said that regular 
investment updates were issued to Mr Is adviser. 
Mr I referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. The 
investigator set out that Mr I had been advised to invest in the portfolio by an unrelated 
financial adviser, not Aberdeen. So Aberdeen was not responsible for that advice or whether 
the investment itself was suitable for Mr I or not. But he could consider how Aberdeen had 
administered the portfolio. He said that the performance of a product is not normally a valid 
complaint and performance could not be guaranteed. And the portfolio itself had been 
invested in a way that matched with the risk profile set out by Aberdeen.  He confirmed that 
the investment had been made in stages during 2015 on the instruction of Mr Is financial 
adviser. If any other type of contribution in stages was required, he would have expected Mr 
Is financial adviser to instruct that. In the absence of that he did not believe Aberdeen had 
done anything wrong. 
Mr I did not accept the investigators findings. He made significant further submissions. In 
brief summary:
He said the portfolio was not medium low risk as Aberdeen had suggested, and the 
SIA was not fit for purpose. 
He said Aberdeen had not trickled the money into the portfolio as he had requested.
H said Aberdeen failed to meet their obligations in terms of investment management 
and failed to take approximate action as to the SIA fund. 
He made reference to another complaint made to this service about the same 
portfolio. 
He made reference to press articles which he said set out that the portfolio was not 
suitable for investors like him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has made significant submissions and I have considered them in their entirety. However 
I will not necessarily address every point he has made but concentrate on the material 
issues which affect the outcome of his complaint. 
The first thing to note is that the SIA is not a stand alone investment but is used by 
Aberdeen as part of an individuals portfolio. It formed part of Mr Is portfolio. My 
understanding of the management of Mr Is portfolio is that the objective of the SIA is to 
balance other risks in his portfolio so as to moderate the investment risk. So, for example, 
taking an opposite position to other assets in Mr Is portfolio. So if those investments perform 
poorly, then the SIA will conversely provide a better return  thus evening out the volatility 
and returns of the portfolio as a whole. 
As the investigator set out, Aberdeen did not advise Mr I to invest in his chosen investment 
portfolio or the SIA either specifically or as part of that portfolio. I must therefore disagree 
that it is responsible for the suitability of his portfolio in terms of his specific circumstances or 
objectives. His financial adviser has obligations in that respect, as well as informing Mr I how 
his portfolio would operate. Aberdeen has a responsibility to manage the portfolio within the 
agreed parameters  in this case the agreed risk parameters, and objective of achieving a 
positive return. Aberdeen didnt have to take into account Mr Is personal situation, only 
operate and manage his portfolio as had been agreed. That was not, as seems to be 
suggested, to prevent all losses or manage his portfolio in a way where losses could not be 
suffered. That was not the agreement between Mr I, his financial adviser and Aberdeen. If 
Mr I believes that he was unable to bear any loss with respect to his pension, then he may 
wish to discuss that with his financial adviser  as loss was always possible with his 
Aberdeen portfolio.
But Aberdeen does have its own responsibilities to clearly set out how the SIA and portfolio 
would work and administer the portfolio as agreed and set out in its communications. Its 
statements should be clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr I invested in a portfolio that was to be managed by Aberdeen with the objective of 
generating a positive return. The portfolio was to be managed on medium low risk basis.
This was set out as: 
Medium low - you are prepared to accept a moderate amount of risk over your time horizon. 
You want to protect the value of your investments but you want them to grow as well. Under 
normal circumstances, you would not expect your investments to fall and rise sharply in 
value. You accept that, in the longer term, a higher level of risk may result in higher returns.
The SIA was to make up about 30 to 35% of the portfolio and this was set out in the 
documentation that Aberdeen provided. The rest of the portfolio was invested in traditional 
assets such as equities and corporate bonds. In the documentation and presentations 
Aberdeen set out that preservation of Mr Is capital was the objective but this was not 
guaranteed. Although it is not straightforward to assess the risk of an investment where traditional 
investments are hedged to some extent, the evidence does not suggest that Mr Is portfolio 
was not managed within the risk parameters agreed with Aberdeen. I also note that 
Aberdeen set out, in my view clearly, how the portfolio was to be invested, including the 
nature of the SIA and communicated this to Mr I and his adviser. So, if Mr I or his adviser 
thought that this was a portfolio that caused them a degree of concern then they did have 
the opportunity to decline to invest. I note Mr Is reference to press articles or commentary 
about Aberdeens approach, but it did set out that approach and the way in which it took 
positions using the SIA. The SIA does bring a level of complexity  but this was something 
that was disclosed. 
Mr I has said that Aberdeen set out that the SIA was performing well when he invested. The 
performance figures I have seen show that up to 2015 the performance of the SIA on its own 
was, more often than not, positive  for example the performance in 2014 and 2015 was 
positive. It was also in line with the figures he was supplied with in Aberdeens slideshow, or 
PowerPoint presentation, that Mr I refers to. 
However, it should be borne in mind that it is not the performance of the SIA on its own that 
is crucial  because it makes up a portion of an investors portfolio and it is used, as 
discussed, to mitigate risk and balance other investments. It is the overall performance of the 
portfolio that is the material issue. 
It is very unfortunate that, almost immediately after Mr I invested, the SIA did not perform 
well in and of itself. It produced significant negative returns in 2016 and 2017 and this would 
have affected Mr Is overall pension value. But the situation should not be viewed with 
hindsight and the evidence does not suggest that Aberdeen made misleading statements 
about the performance of the SIA before he invested. I have seen that it issued regular 
updates about the portfolio and SIA, explaining why performance had not been as expected. 
As discussed, in any event the SIA it is not a stand-alone investment and I do not believe it 
is correct to view it through that lens.  
In terms of the management and performance of the SIA itself, I can appreciate why Mr I is 
concerned about his portfolio, but unhappiness with the performance of an investment is not 
something that would usually amount to a valid complaint. Investments, generally speaking, 
yield uncertain amounts and anticipated returns might never materialise. A lack of hoped for 
performance is not in itself evidence that a fund was negligently managed or inherently 
unsuitable for the customer. 
The management of an investment calls for making decisions about, for example, the future 
economic situation. Making a decision that turns out to be wrong or less beneficial is not 
necessarily proof of negligence and the situation should not be viewed with hindsight. Mr I 
invested in a portfolio where returns were uncertain and not guaranteed. Investment funds 
are often benchmarked against other rates of return  say the performance of a share index 
or in this case an interest rate. This is a rate that the manager targets to achieve or better. 
However if the manager does not hit that target benchmark it does not mean that the 
manager has been negligent or acted incorrectly. 
It is unfortunate the returns were not as hoped for, but the volatility or performance of Mr Is 
portfolio was within the sphere of what could be expected, positively or negatively, given the 
risk level chosen. The regular updates from Aberdeen confirmed that it was taking active 
steps during the period Mr I invested to improve performance. Whether or not those actions 
succeeded, I dont believe that Aberdeen failed to actively manage the portfolio or SIA. 
I have also not seen evidence that would support Mr Is complaint that Aberdeen should 
have drip fed his investment into the portfolio as he describes, or was told it should do so. 
Aberdeen was not required to stage his investment in any particular way, unless specifically 
instructed  and I have not seen that it was told to do this. The evidence I have seen is that Aberdeen was instructed to make the investment in the stages set out by Mr Is adviser  
and it did so. So it has fulfilled its responsibilities in this respect. Primarily it would have been 
for Mr I or his adviser to set out to Aberdeen specially how the money should be invested, if 
different than that instructed by his financial adviser. It is not for Aberdeen to take its own 
initiative as to when to invest Mr Is money or time the market.  
As Mr I says, broadly speaking the aim of the portfolio, including the SIA, was to manage the 
volatility of investing in risk based assets over time, but it was not guaranteed to perform 
within a given set of parameters. It seems that Mr I may have understood this to mean that 
his portfolio would not suffer, or was very unlikely to suffer, reduction in value but that was 
not the situation and that was not what Aberdeen set out. Performance was not guaranteed 
and it was not guaranteed over any one particular year. The period in which Mr I invested 
was relatively short in terms of long term pension investment and I do not believe it is 
appropriate to reach judgements based on performance over that timescale. Over a longer 
timescale the kind of portfolio which Mr I invested in did show positive returns. I do not 
believe Aberdeen issued misleading statements about how it would manage the portfolio or 
SIA. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman