DRN-3628040
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr M, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr M responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I understand that
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think its only fair to consider that standard in
tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be
considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection or 
to rely on the results of that final inspection when it identified some damage that wasnt 
initially highlighted. I think its fair to suggest that second inspection was more 
comprehensive and, given the short time between inspections, I think its likely the damage 
wasnt inflicted between them.
MBFS have removed some of the charges they original sought to make as they agreed the 
photographs in the inspection reports didnt show the damage was in excess of the fair wear 
and tear standards. The charges that remain are:
Front screen  chipped £318.75
LHR alloy  spoke damage £110
Front bumper  scratched £210
LHR quarter panel  dented £260
Rear bumper  dented £260
Bumper rear tow eye cover  dented £54.02
RHR quarter panel  dented £260
RHR door  dented £260
RHF wing  dented £260
Bumper rear chrome moulding  cracked £86.91
The investigator correctly set out the BVRLA guidance for each area of damage in the 
detailed view he provided in July of this year. Ill not repeat that guidance here but having 
considered the inspectors photographs of each area of damage I would agree that it all 
exceeds the BVRLA guidance.
Ive also considered the damage against MBFSs Vehicle Return Standard, but I think all the 
damage is in excess of that standard as well. The dents are in excess of 13mm; theres a 
scratch to the front bumper which has penetrated the base coat; the windscreen is chipped 
in the line of the drivers vision; the chrome bumper moulding is cracked, and the wheel 
spoke has a scuff in excess of 25mm. 
So, I dont think MBFS are being unreasonable with the charges they are now seeking to 
make.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman