DRN-2473400
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) has not refunded some 
unauthorised transactions on his credit card.
  
What happened
On two occasions, Mr C contacted Creation to dispute some transactions on his credit card 
account. Both times, Creation sent Mr C some forms in the post to complete and return. As 
Mr C didnt return the forms within the required timescales, Creation didnt take any action 
about the disputed transactions. Mr C said he didnt receive the forms and that he had also 
asked for any requests or information to be sent via email. He said that Creation should look 
at the disputed transactions.
Creation replied and said that it had logged the disputed transactions, but not received any 
written confirmation of them from Mr C. The chargeback time limit had then passed and 
there was no liability under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) because the 
disputed transactions were below £100. It said all letters were sent by second class post but 
once they left the business it had no control over them.
Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think that Creation needed to do anything further.
As Mr C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to partially uphold the complaint. I said:
When Mr C phoned Creation about the disputed transactions, he said he asked to be 
contacted by email. However, Creation contacted him by letter. Mr C said that this meant 
that he didnt receive the forms that he needed to complete in order to dispute the 
transactions. 
In one of Creations responses to Mr Cs complaint, it said that its records showed that the 
dispute was raised, but that it didnt then receive written confirmation from Mr C by email. A 
dispute form was then sent to Mr Cs home address, which stated that it must be returned 
within 14 days, but Creation didnt receive a completed form. Mr C contacted Creation again 
about three months later and so it sent a new form. Creation received a response from Mr C 
about three months after that.
I asked Creation for the call recordings, but it was unable to locate them. Ive read the call 
notes and these provide only very brief details of the conversations about the disputed 
transactions. The notes dont say whether Mr C was asked by Creation to send an email 
about the disputed transactions or whether Mr C said he only wanted to be contacted by 
email. Ive listened to a phone call that Creation provided for another complaint Mr C made 
to this service and Mr C briefly commented that Creation had sent a letter about a complaint 
when he had asked to be contacted by email. 
I asked Creation whether it would have sent the form by email if it had been asked to do so. 
It said that it would have, but that its standard procedure was to contact customers by letter. 
Given that the call recordings arent available, I need to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened based on the other information available. Creations response to Mr Cs 
complaint said that Mr C didnt send an email confirming the disputed transactions and that 
he also didnt respond with the details until several months after he raised the dispute. 
Looking at Creations call notes, these dont explain what Mr C was advised or what action 
he was told to take, so Im not clear what Creations evidence is that it asked Mr C to send 
an email, even if its Creations normal practice to do so. Looking at what Mr C has said, I 
cant see that he was aware that he was meant to send an email.
Looking at the records, I can see that both times Mr C phoned to raise the disputes, a 
dispute form was sent by post several days later. So I think there is enough evidence to 
show that the form was sent on both occasions. If the forms werent received by post, I dont 
think this was Creations fault though because it was only responsible for sending it, not for 
delivering it, as that was outside of its control.
But Im aware that Mr C said he didnt want to receive the form by post and that it should 
have been emailed to him. Mr C explained why he wanted to be contacted by email, 
including that he was frequently abroad and that he hadnt received other letters Creation 
had sent in the post. Without the relevant phone calls, I cant say for certain what happened, 
but given that throughout the complaint Mr C had said that he wanted to be contacted by 
email and his reasons for this, I think it is more likely than not that he told Creation that he 
wanted to be contacted in that way. Given that Creation has said that it could have sent the 
form by email if it had been asked to do so, it therefore follows that, on balance, I think that 
Creation didnt do as requested by Mr C because it then sent the forms by post.
The question is - what impact did the above have on Mr Cs disputed transactions?
When a cardholder disputes transactions on their credit card, there are two potential routes 
to get a refund, subject to certain conditions being met. These are under Section 75 of the 
CCA or as a chargeback. 
Mr C has argued that the transactions should have been disputed under Section 75 of the 
CCA. To use this legal protection, the cost of a single item must be more than £100, 
although the full cost of the item doesnt need to be paid on the credit card. In this instance, 
the transactions on Mr Cs account were each below £100. Mr C has argued that he had 
unknowingly signed up to a subscription service and that although there were several 
transactions on the card, they should be considered as one transaction, the cumulative total 
of which was over £100. Ive thought about this but cant currently see that what Mr C has 
said meets the criteria for a Section 75 claim. He seems to be arguing that the transactions 
should be treated as one item, but the reference to one item refers to the goods themselves 
and I havent seen evidence to show that the cost of each individual item was more than 
£100. So, on that basis, I cant see that Section 75 applies.
This meant that the only option available to Mr C was a chargeback. A chargeback has strict 
deadlines that apply to it. This is normally 120 days from the payment, or from when the 
customer became aware of the problem. So, the amount of time that it took Mr C to receive 
the form and for him then to return it is therefore key. 
Mr C said that he phoned Creation on multiple occasions to follow up on the dispute, 
including in each of the three months after he first raised the disputed transactions. Looking 
at Creations call records, these dont show that Mr C spoke to Creation in the months in 
between the two calls that resulted in the dispute forms being sent. Although the call notes are very brief, I havent seen anything to indicate that they dont include all of the times Mr C 
phoned. So, I havent currently seen evidence that shows that Mr C phoned as often as he 
thought he did.
If the first call was taken as the date on which Mr C was first aware of the problem, by the 
time of the second phone call, the 120 day limit for raising a chargeback had almost expired. 
Again, without the call recording and only very brief call notes, I dont know what was 
discussed, but I haven't seen evidence that the call handler made Mr C aware in this phone 
call, or the earlier one, that this was likely to be a chargeback claim and the deadlines 
involved. So, I can understand that Mr C didnt necessarily understand the urgency to 
respond.
However, I also need to think about Mr Cs role in this. Given he raised the disputed 
transactions and asked to be contacted by email, when he didnt receive the email, he could 
have followed this up sooner. If he had done so, he might then have been able to raise the 
dispute within the 120 day limit. However, Im aware that Mr C seems to have thought that 
this could be dealt with as a Section 75 claim. In which case, again, he might not have 
realised the urgency to respond, as the same time limits dont apply to that type of claim. But 
I havent seen any evidence that it was Creation that gave Mr C the impression that this 
might be a Section 75 claim, so I dont think it would be fair to hold it responsible for this.
Im aware that what Mr C really wanted though was for his disputed transactions to be 
refunded. To be clear, it isnt now possible to raise a chargeback claim because of the 120 
day limit to do so. Banks also arent obliged to submit a chargeback claim if they dont think 
that it will be successful, so I dont know if Creation would have submitted the chargeback 
claims anyway or whether the claims would have been successful if it had. 
But Creation didnt assess the disputed transactions to see if they should be considered as a 
chargeback claim and my current view is that some of the reason for that is because 
Creation didnt do what Mr C asked, which was to contact him by email. However, even if it 
had done so, I dont know whether Mr C would have replied within the required timescales 
anyway  whether that was the 14 days specified by Creation to return the form or the 120 
days within which the claim needed to be made overall.
So thinking about all of the above, Im minded to partially uphold this complaint. This is 
because I currently think it is more likely than not that Mr C asked to be contacted by email 
but that Creation failed to do this. However, I cant say with certainty whether Mr C would 
have returned the form within the required timescales or that the disputed transactions would 
have been refunded. Im also currently minded to say that Creation should pay Mr C £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it not contacting him in the way 
he asked about the disputed transactions.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 28 October 2020.
Mr C asked for more time to provide comments, so was given a number of extensions to the 
deadline. However, he didnt provide any comments.
Creation confirmed it had nothing to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision to uphold this complaint in 
part and for the reasons that I previously gave.
  
Putting things right
Creation must pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it 
not contacting him in the way he asked about the disputed transactions.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Creation Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C £200 
compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman