DRN-3219029
Complaint
Miss B has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly continued applying 
charges on her overdraft which caused her debts to spiral and financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Bs complaint and thought Santander should have 
realised Miss Bs overdraft had already become unsustainable by April 2017. So it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Bs overdraft from this point. 
Santander disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from April 2017. By this point, it 
was evident Miss B was struggling financially. 
A cursory look at her statements leading up to this period shows that Miss B had been 
struggling to maintain his overdraft at its limit for an extended period of time. Her account 
displayed a clear pattern of constantly being at the limit by the time her wages were due to 
be credited. This was a clear indication that she was struggling to manage. Miss Bs 
statements also show regular and significant payments going to unsustainable sources too.
So I think that by April 2017 Santander should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Miss B with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft. 
All of this means that Santander should have realised that Miss B was experiencing difficulty 
and proactively offered her help to repay what she owed. As Santander didnt react to              
Miss Bs account usage and her apparent difficulty, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Miss Bs account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Miss Bs account from April 2017.
Miss B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was 
already experiencing difficulty. 
So Im satisfied that Miss B lost out because of what Santander did wrong and that it should 
put things right.
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from April 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Miss B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander 
to reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Miss Bs credit file, it should reflect what would have 
been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the 
overdraft in April 2017. Santander can also reduce Miss Bs overdraft limit by the 
amount of any refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so 
wouldnt leave her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Miss Bs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman