DRN-1641916
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card in 2001. He was sold the PPI at the same time in connection with 
this card.
The PPI cost 68p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 3% of 
the outstanding balance until the balance was paid off - or Mr M returned to work - if Mr M 
was off work sick, and for up to 12 months per claim if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr M would have been eligible for the policy. Based on 
Mr Ms age, work and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr M would have been 
eligible for the policy. 
MBNA had to make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr M says he wouldnt have knowingly taken out 
PPI.
Mr M says he took out the card during a telephone conversation. However, MBNA have told 
us this was a postal sale. They have provided us with a copy of the completed application 
form from the time of the sale and I think its clear from this that this was a postal application 
and that Mr M was sold the credit card and PPI at the same time. 
I note that the application form presented Mr M with two equally clear options to take or 
refuse PPI. It appears Mr M ticked to take PPI and signed this application form.  
So while I appreciate what Mr M has told us, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its 
more likely that MBNA did make Mr M aware that PPI was optional and it was only applied to 
the account because Mr M chose to take it out. Although I can appreciate why Mr M may 
now no longer recall selecting PPI.
Given that this was a postal sale with no involvement from a representative, I dont think 
MBNA advised Mr M to take PPI. This means they didnt need to take steps to check if PPI 
was suitable for Mr M. So for example, they didnt need to take into account Mr Ms personal 
circumstances or his existing repayment provisions.
But MBNA did have to give Mr M clear information so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr M 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold 
as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put him off taking it 
out. And I dont think it would have. I say this because:
- Mr M didnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions and onerous terms in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy. 
- Mr M initially told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay but more recently has told 
us that after speaking to a couple of people who worked with him, it appears that he 
would have been entitled to 3 months full pay followed by 3 months half pay if he was 
off work sick. However, Mr M has not provided any evidence of this sick pay. Given 
the change in information and without evidence to show otherwise, Im unable to 
conclude that its more likely that Mr M would have been entitled to 3 months full sick 
pay followed by 3 months half sick pay. 
- The PPI would have paid out in addition to any statutory sick pay and for a much 
longer period of time. It would also have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay 
Mr M may have been entitled to. 
- The PPI was of a relatively low cost and I havent seen any evidence to suggest the 
PPI was unaffordable to Mr M at the time of the sale. 
- Mr M could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted or needed it.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think MBNA mis-sold Mr M this PPI 
policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr M complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman