DRN-1383803
The complaint
Mr M says Quidie Limited (also known as "Fernovo" but referred to in my decision as 
"Quidie") lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M had six loans with Quidie. I've summarised some of the details Quidie provided about 
the loans below.
Loan no. Amount (£) Start date End date
1 300 14.11.17 24.12.17
2 500 26.12.17 23.03.18
3 500 25.03.18 25.05.18
4 500 03.06.18 10.09.18
5 500 12.09.18 31.12.18
6 500 31.12.18 n/a
 
Mr M's complaint was considered by an adjudicator on 3 December 2019. She said that 
Quidie was wrong to have approved loans 4 to 6 and set out what she though Quidie should 
do to put things right. Quidie didn't respond by the deadline of 17 December but does appear 
to have responded between 25 and 30 December 2019, accepting the adjudicator's view 
and asking what it needed to do next. The adjudicator responded, directing Quidie to the 
relevant section of her view letter. Despite several reminders since then, this service hasn't 
had a substantive response from Quidie confirming its agreement to settle this complaint.
I've also noted that Mr M said that he thought all his loans were unaffordable and that Quidie 
should increase its offer to include loans 1 to 3.
Given the outstanding issues outlined above, the complaint was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As Quidie agreed to settle the complaint in respect of loans 4 to 6, I don't need to decide 
whether it was right to approve those loans or not. It is however disappointing that, having 
made this offer, Quidie has fallen silent and not taken steps to settle this complaint. I expect 
Quidie to comply with this decision promptly should Mr M accept the outcome.
I've seen that Mr M also didn't agree with the adjudicator's opinion. He said that all of his 
loans are unaffordable. So I have reviewed the complaint about loans1 to 3.Quidie needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
It may help if I explain to Mr M, with the above mind, that in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks are likely to be reasonable and proportionate. In other 
words, I'd have expected Quidie to take a more thorough look at his last three loan 
applications than his first three. So it may be that loans 1 to 3 were actually unaffordable for 
Mr M, but as this was still early in its lending relationship with him, I wouldn't necessarily 
have expected Quidie to know this. 
In the earlier stages of the lending relationship, I think it was more appropriate for Quidie to 
rely on things such as the information Mr M provided about his financial circumstances on 
his applications. And this sort of information, provided by an applicant, is less likely to show 
that a loan is unaffordable. So in summary, I think it's unlikely that proportionate checks 
would've shown loans 1 to 3 to be unaffordable. I'm not therefore upholding the complaint 
about these loans.
Mr M is also unhappy Quidie defaulted loan 6 despite his affordability complaint. I've not 
seen a copy of the default notice and I can't strictly expand the scope of this complaint 
beyond the issue of affordability initially raised by Mr M. But as my directions below will 
include removing any adverse information Quidie has reported about loan 6, I hope Mr M will 
consider this issue to be resolved. Quidie's final response says Mr M has repaid the principal 
amount borrowed for loan 6, so he shouldn't owe it anything further.
Putting things right
Quidie must:
refund the interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 4 to 6
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when Mr M paid the interest 
and charges, until the date of settlement
remove any adverse information it has reported to the credit agencies about loans 4 
to 6
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie to take off tax from this interest. Quidie must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part. Quidie Limited must put things 
right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman