DRN-2794990
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about the maturity values of two savings endowment policies he held 
with Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited.  The policies both matured in 2020 and he 
is unhappy with the bid price used to calculate the maturity values.
What happened
Mr Ws policies matured in January and February 2020 and had values in the region of 
£33,000 and £11,000 respectively.
In November 2019 the policies were transferred from a life assurance company (which I will 
refer to as C) to Scottish Friendly. Whilst with C, the policies invested in two of its property 
funds; property funds series 1 and series 2. 
When the policies transferred to Scottish Friendly the assets held by them were transferred 
alongside the policies and placed in newly created Scottish Friendly funds. The newly 
created Scottish Friendly funds replicated the C series 1 and series 2 property funds and 
Scottish Friendly used the same fund names for them. All four of the funds were invested in 
the same underling fund with C.
When the policies matured, Mr W checked the bid price of units published by Scottish 
Friendly and C. The Scottish Friendly unit prices were lower than those published for Cs 
funds. Mr W questioned why the unit prices published by Scottish Friendly were lower. He 
also suggested that the fact the Scottish Friendly funds had been suspended from trading in 
March 2020 might indicate there was something wrong with the funds or their administration. 
Mr W didnt think hed been paid the right amount for his policies and complained to Scottish 
Friendly. It responded to the complaint in relation to the first policy and explained its 
investment team had confirmed that when Scottish Friendly had taken over the policy from C 
the policy remained invested in the same fund. It went on to explain that the unit prices for 
the fund came from C and it had checked with it, and C had confirmed the unit price 
Scottish Friendly had used to calculate the maturity value was correct.  With regard to the C 
fund, to which Mr W was comparing the Scottish Friendly fund, it said it had no input into 
what C added to its website or the prices it supplied for that fund. It said it hadnt identified 
any failures in what it had done was and unable to uphold the complaint. 
Mr W didnt accept Scottish Friendlys response and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He acknowledged that the funds his 
policies were invested in had changed when the policies were transferred to Scottish 
Friendly, although he pointed out those previously invested in, still existed. He highlighted 
that the fund names were the same and believed the confusion came about because of an 
error when the policies were transferred. He said he hadnt been told the funds would 
change either before or after the transfer to Scottish Friendly. He believed that this was an 
error on behalf of the previous product provider. In settlement of his complaint, Mr W thought 
the previous product provider should determine what the maturity values of the policies 
would have been in the original funds, and pay him the difference, with interest. He also 
wanted compensation for the upset this matter had caused and the amount of time hed 
spent dealing with the issue. He confirmed that he had already contacted the previous 
product provider about the issue, but it had forwarded the correspondence to Sottish 
Friendly. Mr W reaffirmed his belief that he was entitled to redress.
The investigator considered Mr Ws further comments and asked some more questions of 
Scottish Friendly. However, ultimately, he didnt change his mind. He was satisfied that the 
difference in values Mr W had pointed out was simply down to differences in the fund 
performance of the Scottish Friendly funds and those owned by C. As such, he wasnt 
persuaded there was evidence that Scottish Friendly had made an error or done anything 
wrong.
Mr W again didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that it remained that the 
annual statements for both his policies quoted the same fund names and that those funds 
were owned by the previous provider. He questioned why, if the book of business was taken 
over by Scottish Friendly, Cs funds still existed. He was not persuaded that the investment 
funds his policies were invested in had changed and believed there had been 
maladministration before the transfer of the policies. Mr W requested that he be paid the 
difference between the maturity values he received and those that he would have received 
had the unit values from the previous provider been applied to calculate the maturity values. 
He wanted interest on that figure and compensation for the maladministration before the 
transfer and for the inaccurate and misleading information he had received since, along with 
time penalties.
In addition to his further comments, Mr W provided a copy of a letter from Scottish Friendly 
dated December 2020 in which it had corrected an error in its complaint response to Mr W. 
This being that it had implied the funds were exactly the same before and after the transfer 
of the policies. It confirmed the fund the policies were invested in at maturity were not the 
same ones they had been invested in when with the previous product provider. As such, the 
pricing information he was comparing were not for the same funds. However, it said that it 
wouldnt expect any difference between the unit prices between the funds, so it had 
questioned C. It said C had confirmed that there had been an error in its fund values, and 
not the Scottish Friendly ones. Scottish Friendly confirmed that it was satisfied the maturity 
values of Mr Ws policies were correct. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ws further comments and the letter from Scottish Friendly, 
but he didnt change his mind that the complaint shouldnt succeed. He was satisfied the 
policy holdings were transferred from the previous providers funds to Scottish Friendlys 
equivalent funds. He didnt think there was evidence of any maladministration, rather it 
appeared that Scottish Friendly had simply used the same names for the new funds 
(including the shorthand versions). As Mr Ws policies werent invested in Cs funds at the 
time they matured, the unit values associated with Cs funds werent relevant to the maturity 
values.
Mr W wasnt persuaded by what our investigator had said and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first thing to say on this case is that there are five separate funds involved in this 
case. The first is an underlying property fund owned by C in which the other four funds 
invest. C had two funds invested in the underlying fund and it effectively called them property 
series 1 and series 2. Mr W had one policy invested in each fund. 
When the group policies (which included Mr Ws) were transferred to Scottish Friendly, it set 
up two new funds to replicate Cs property series 1 and series 2 funds. They were also 
invested in the underlying property fund and were designed to follow the same investment 
strategy as Cs existing funds.  When Mr Ws policies were transferred to Scottish Friendly, 
their unit holding was moved from the C funds to the equivalent Scottish Friendly funds. 
When the new funds were created, because they were created to replicate the C series 1 
and series 2 funds, Scottish Friendly used the same fund names to identify them. However, 
the new funds were owned by Scottish Friendly and had its name at the beginning of the 
fund name. I have seen no evidence of any maladministration of the funds or the transfer 
between funds, as Mr W has suggested. 
Mr W is persuaded that he should receive a higher maturity value for his policies because 
the funds in which they invested before the transfer to Scottish Friendly had higher bid 
values for units on the maturity dates. It may be the case that the C funds had higher values 
on those dates or that the published data for Cs funds was incorrect, as Scottish Friendly 
has more recently said was the case. However, I dont think that is relevant to the issue 
here; Mr Ws policies werent invested in Cs funds when they matured, so he was not 
entitled to a maturity value based on the unit price for those funds. He was entitled to 
maturity values based on the unit holding and price associated in the Scottish Friendly funds 
the policies were actually invested in. I have seen no evidence that Scottish Friendly paid out 
incorrect maturity values to Mr W when the policies matured. 
Mr W questioned whether the trading in the Scottish Friendly funds being suspended in 
March 2020 indicated something was wrong with them or their management. Mr W also 
provided a copy of the published statement explaining why this had happened. The 
explanation said that because of the market reaction to Covid19, it had become impossible 
to value the underlying fund. Without being able to accurately value the fund and attribute a 
value to the units within it, trading those units would have been impossible. As such, trading 
was suspended. I have seen nothing to indicate this was not the reason for trading being 
suspended or that Mr Ws suspicions are justified. 
In addition, Mr W has questioned why the C series 1 and series 2 funds still exist if the block 
of business invested in them was transferred to Scottish Friendly. Whilst Mr Ws policies 
were transferred to Scottish Friendly, that doesnt mean that all policies invested in the C 
funds were included in the transfer and so the funds were no longer needed. The funds 
would have been available to a range of different investment products, some of which may 
well remain with C. 
Given that I have seen no evidence of any errors on the part of Scottish Friendly when it 
comes to Mr Ws policies, I am cant uphold the complaint against it. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
8 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman