DRN-4405255
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N bought a solar panel system (the system) for their home in 2017. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for any 
misrepresentations and/or breach of contract of the installer under the relevant legislation. In 
this case, Mr and Mrs N allege that the installer misled Mr and Mrs N into believing that the 
panels would result in savings on their energy bills, and payments for the energy sent to the 
grid  neither of which have materialised. They therefore havent received the financial 
rewards they were expecting. 
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They explained the 
following: 
The evidence suggested Mr and Mrs Ns energy bills had actually gone up following 
the installation of the system and therefore they hadnt received the reduction in bills 
they had been expecting  they therefore felt the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs N hadnt received the payments for the energy sent to the national grid, 
but that was because Mr and Mrs N hadnt applied for the scheme in place at the 
time, and this was neither the responsibility of the installer nor Shawbrook. They 
suggested Mr and Mrs N apply for the scheme in place now, so they can receive 
some benefit going forward. 
Our investigator recommended Shawbrook work out what benefit (if any) Mr and 
Mrs N will receive from the system over a 10-year period and restructure their loan. 
This would mean Mr and Mrs N only pay Shawbrook what they have received (and 
are likely receive) over the 10-year period which would make the system cost neutral 
to them and they wouldnt suffer a financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs N disagreed. They said they no longer wanted a system as theyd receive no 
benefit from it. They wanted Shawbrook to unwind the contract and refund all they had paid 
for it. They also said they wouldnt be applying for any benefit as they no longer wanted the 
system.
Shawbrook initially said that Mr and Mrs N hadnt substantiated their claims with any 
documents nor proved their loss. But subsequently didnt reply to our investigators view of 
the complaint. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
In my provisional decision of 22 September 2023, I set out why I was minded to not 
upholding the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook did not make any comments 
while Mr and Mrs N replied to my provisional decision re-iterating that they werent informed 
they needed to apply for the benefits and thought they would automatically be added. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case, the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs N could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the installer in 
the same way they could have claimed against the installer. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs N and the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the installer as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs N say they were told that the system would lead to savings on their energy bills, 
and that thousands of people had benefitted from solar panels. They were also told theyd 
receive payments for the energy produced by the system that would be sent to the grid. Mr 
and Mrs N have not received any payments for the energy produced by their system and 
their bills also havent reduced  so I can understand why they feel the system hasnt 
produced the benefits they say they were promised. 
It may be helpful to explain that in order for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to be 
persuaded that the installers made specific statements about Mr and Mrs Ns system, about 
how it would perform, and what benefit they would likely receive. That these statements 
were false at the time they made them and, had been relied on by Mr and Mrs N inducing 
them into purchasing the system. I, therefore, need to be satisfied that any losses they have 
suffered, have been caused by the installer mis-leading them. 
Has there been a misrepresentation? 
Mr and Mrs Ns testimony isnt particularly detailed or specific other than that they were 
promised financial rewards, payments for the energy produced, and their bill would reduce. 
In cases of this type, normally we expect consumers to set out the specific estimates they 
were given as to how much theyd received in benefit, both in payments for the energy 
produced as well as savings in their energy bills  none of which is present here. Not in any 
documentation or in Mr and Mrs Ns testimony from what they recall from the sale. 
Encouraging consumers to buy the system and general opinions about how good the 
systems are, is to be expected during a sales meeting  but do not always amount to a misrepresentation about the system consumers have bought. But even if I am to accept that 
the installer did make statements that amount to a representation that Mr and Mrs N relied 
on, Im not satisfied that they have evidenced that any such statements were untrue at the 
time they were made - which would be required for me to uphold this complaint. 
Were these statements untrue? 
Mr and Mrs N never registered for the Feed in Tariff Scheme (FIT) so havent received any 
payments for the energy sent to the grid. As explained by our investigator, it is generally the 
responsibility of consumers to apply for the FIT scheme and Ive got no reason to doubt, that 
had they done so, they would have received the payments the installer informed them about. 
The statement therefore that theyd receive payments for the energy produced was not an 
untrue statement made by the supplier at the time it was made. It didnt materialise because 
Mr and Mrs N didnt register for the system after the installation. So, I dont think this means 
the installers statement was untrue. 
Ive looked at the meter reading Mr and Mrs N have sent in and based on that reading the 
system is actually generating more energy than was estimated. Their MCS certificate shows 
the system is expected to produce 3184 kWh energy per year. Their meter reading shows 
that the system generated on average 3387.60 kWh annually. So, their system is actually 
producing more energy than anticipated. It seems likely that Mr and Mrs N would have used 
some of that energy  leading to less energy needing to be purchased from their energy 
providers  therefore impacting how much they pay in their bills. I think its highly unlikely 
that they are not using any of this energy at all. 
Normally consumers submit pre-installation and post installation bills. These would show 
how much energy was being purchased (from their energy providers) before the installation 
of the system and how much energy was purchased after the installation. We could then 
work out what (if any) savings customers had achieved from using the panels taking account 
of any changes in tariff which is beyond the control of the installers. 
However, unfortunately Mr and Mrs Ns energy providers became insolvent shortly after the 
sale, so they havent been able to obtain either pre or post installation bills. I understand our 
investigator has looked at their bank statements to see how much they were paying their 
energy providers, and this shows their payments went up rather than down after the 
installation, indicating the installers statement that their system would result in the customer 
saving on energy bills was untrue. But I dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Ns bank statements show that their payments were around £37 a month prior to 
the installation of the system, and this went down to £30 a month shortly before the 
installation. After the installation the payments stayed at £30 a month until March 2018  
which is almost 9 months after the installation of the system (installation was June 2017). At 
this time, their payments tripled to £91. 
So, while the payments they made to their energy providers appear to have gone up, this 
was a long time after the installation of the system. This doesnt necessarily mean they were 
paying more after installation than they wouldve paid if they didnt have the solar panels. 
The increase in their payments could have been caused by a number of outside factors such 
as an increase in energy prices, or that their previous payment was too low relative to what 
they were using and their account was in deficit, so they owed their supplier money which it 
was clawing back with the increased payment. 
I also understand that this jump in their payments was shortly before a number of energy 
providers started to become insolvent.  So, I think its also likely, that their payments were 
impacted because of problems experienced with their utility providers. The problems Mr and Mrs N experienced with their energy providers is outside the control of the installers as well 
as Shawbrook  and these factors do not mean the statements made by the installer during 
the sale (i.e. their bills would likely reduce because of the installation) were false at the time 
they may have made them. This wasnt an unreasonable statement to make, and I think it 
was likely true at the time it was made. This therefore doesnt amount to a 
misrepresentation. 
It may be helpful to explain that, if Mr and Mrs N had not installed the system, they would 
likely have needed to purchase even more energy from their energy providers increasing 
their costs further. Correctly working solar panels produce energy, some of that energy is 
used by consumers (how much varies from household to household). When consumers use 
the energy provided by their solar panels, they need to buy less from the energy providers, 
which in turn results in a reduction in how much they need to pay their providers for energy  
and therefore a supplier making a statement that the system would likely lead to a saving is 
not unreasonable to make. An increase in monthly payments does not necessarily mean Mr 
and Mrs N havent benefitted  payments can still go up for all the reasons mentioned 
above. But without the panels, its likely that these payments would have been even higher 
than they have been. 
So I dont think their payments going up 9 months after the installation of the system is 
sufficient evidence that they havent benefited in the way they may have been led to believe 
they would. I think its more likely they did make savings due to the installation of the system, 
although how much cannot be ascertained without their bills. But Im not persuaded that any 
such representations were untrue at the time they were made, so I dont uphold their 
complaint on this basis. 
Summary 
I appreciate the difficulties Mr and Mrs N have experienced in substantiating their claim. But 
the only accurate measure of performance I have here, is how much energy the system has 
produced, which shows it is overperforming. Had they registered for FIT, I have no reason to 
doubt that they would have received payments for the energy produced by the system. 
Them not registering for the scheme does not mean the installer or Shawbrook have failed in 
any way. And while their bills havent reduced, as they expected, this was more likely caused 
by outside factors beyond the control of the installers. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that the statements the installer may have made during the sale, 
were untrue at the time they made them. So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence here 
that the statements made by the supplier amount to misrepresentations, and I dont intend to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint on this basis. While I understand the FIT scheme is now 
closed to new applications, I would encourage Mr and Mrs N to look into the current scheme 
in place, so they receive some payment for the unused energy being sent to the grid.
Mr and Mrs N feel I havent addressed their main concern, which was that, while the supplier 
told them about the main benefits of the system, (which were FIT payments and savings on 
energy bills), the supplier failed to disclose the process by which the FIT benefit could be 
obtained. They were led to believe that the benefit was to automatically be triggered upon 
installing the system. They feel that information regarding the registration process should 
have been something the supplier informed them about. I understand that by the time Mr 
and Mrs N looked into why they werent receiving the benefit, the FIT scheme had closed to 
new applicants, leading to them losing thousands in benefit. 
As Ive previously explained, the onus is on consumers to apply for the benefits, and it is 
usually made clear in the sales information. It is standard in this industry for consumers to 
apply for the benefit, in fact it is my understanding, that while suppliers can support consumers, they are unable to complete the registration process for them. Given that this 
information is usually given to consumers, in order for me to uphold this complaint on this 
basis, Id need persuasive evidence that this particular supplier either misled Mr and Mrs N 
(i.e. that the benefit would be automatically triggered) or failed to disclose something that is 
very common and widely divulged during the sale. 
Unfortunately, neither Shawbrook nor Mr and Mrs N have been able to provide all the sales 
paperwork related to the sale, so Ive had to make my decision based on the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
So, the starting position is that it was Mr and Mrs Ns responsibility to apply for the FIT and I 
havent seen anything in the documents suggesting the supplier mis-led them in this regard. 
I would add that Mr and Mrs Ns system was installed in 2017 and the FIT scheme didnt 
close to new applicants until April 2019. If Mr and Mrs N had been led to believe they would 
automatically receive the FIT benefit, I would have expected them to look into this when they 
didnt receive the benefit sooner than they did. Especially, given they themselves accept the 
benefits were something the supplier told them about and promoted. 
Im afraid that while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ns position, Im not satisfied that there is 
sufficient evidence that the losses associated with not being registered for FIT benefit was 
as a result of any failings of the supplier. As explained in my provisional decision, I would still 
encourage them to look into applying for the current scheme in place so they can get some 
benefit going forward. 
Overall, for the reasons set out above, I dont think theres sufficient evidence here that any 
of the statements made by the supplier amount to misrepresentations. Im also not satisfied 
that theres sufficient evidence that the supplier (and therefor Shawbrook) should be held 
liable for the losses associated with Mr and Mrs N not being registered for the FIT scheme. 
While I am very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, I still dont think it was unfair for 
Shawbrook not to accept their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman