DRN-2490125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC say 
that Mr and Mrs O were given unsuitable advice from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) and have 
suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O received advice from HSBC in March 2001. Mr O had recently retired but was 
considering setting up a business in the future. Mr and Mrs O had a lump sum of £30,000 
but were looking invest £10,000.
HSBC recommended that they both invest into an ISA comprising HSBC funds. Mr O 
invested £7,200.00 and Mrs O invested £3,120. HSBC also gave recommendations on a 
maturing TESSA. Mr and Mrs O invested the proceeds of £9,000 from this TESSA into an 
HSBC Performance Plus ISA.
The CMC complained to HSBC in April 2020 that Mr and Mrs O were given unsuitable 
advice. They said that the £10,000 that was invested into the two ISAs consisted of 
investments that were higher risk and did not suit Mr and Mrs Os personal circumstances as 
inexperienced investors 
The CMC said that the Performance Plus ISA was also not appropriate to Mr and Mrs O and 
the money would have been better invested into fixed rate bonds, this would have carried a 
lower and risk and better rate of return.
HSBC investigated the complaint but didnt think that they had done anything wrong. They 
said that Mr and Mrs O had some experience in investing and thought that the level of risk 
taken, and the amount invested was appropriate. They said that the Performance Plus ISA 
gave a compromise between investment risk but provided protection from any capital loss. 
HSBC thought that the investments were suitable for Mr and Mrs O at the time of providing 
advice to them.
HSBC said that with the benefit of hindsight, it may have been possible to obtain a better 
return if Mr and Mrs Os funds had been placed into fixed rate deposit accounts. They said 
that the option of remaining in cash was discussed with Mr and Mrs O and the investment 
was suitable for their attitude to risk and offered them the potential for a greater level of 
capital growth.
HSBC did not uphold the complaint and issued their final response to the CMC on 24 June 
2020.
Unhappy with HSBCs decision, the CMC referred the matter to the service and one of our 
investigators looked at the complaint. The investigator did not think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC have asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs O but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator for much the same reasons and wont be upholding the complaint.
When a business provides advice to consumers it has to consider their personal and 
financial circumstances. It must also look at the consumers attitude to risk and the ability to 
bear any loss.  
I have looked at the fact find conducted by HSBC in 2001 and can see that Mr and Mrs Os 
personal circumstances were captured and their financial arrangements were discussed. 
HSBC have made a note of liabilities including mortgages and loans. Mr and Mrs Os attitude 
to risk is noted as balanced with an investment objective of capital growth although its not 
clear from the documentation how this was arrived at.
The fact find records the information that I would expect to see and there are notes which 
detail the discussion between the adviser and Mr and Mrs O. I think that the adviser was 
able to rely on the information provided by Mr and Mrs O and the recommendations were 
made on this basis.
The CMC say that Mr and Mrs O were inexperienced investors and should not have been 
recommended products that were medium to high risk. They said that Mr and Mrs O had 
never invested into equities before and had no experience in the volatility of the market. In 
their final response, HSBC said that the Mr and Mrs O had some investment experience and 
held PEPS investing into a UK Tracker fund.
I have looked at the notes within the fact find to see what was recorded in relation to Mr and 
Mrs Os investment experience. The following is recorded:
Investments Savings Total of £63,088 (£44,250 for Mr O and Mrs O £18,838) held in ISAs , 
Building society cash deposits, Stocks and shares, TESSA, PEPS etc,
I think that Mr and Mr O had some limited experience in investing. The CMC say that the 
medium to high risk investments should not have been recommended based on their 
investment experience. While previous experience may lead an adviser to recommend 
certain investments, it is not the only thing that an adviser should consider. The attitude to 
risk and investment objectives will also play in a part in what the adviser recommends. Just 
because Mr and Mrs O did not have extensive investment experience doesnt mean that the 
recommendation to invest was unsuitable.
I have looked at the other information that Mr and Mr O provided to the adviser which is 
relevant and would have informed the recommendation:
Clients were looking for investment advice for their tax-free allowance that year. Mr O had 
just retired and wanted investment advice on £30,000 lump sum he has
received but only wants to tie up £10,000 at this time and wants to keep the balance liquid to 
set up a courier business.
We have also discussed using this years ISA allowance and as a result I recommend that 
Mr O invest the full amount of £7,000 in to the European Fund and Mrs O invests £3,000 into a Mini British Stocks and Shares ISA. It is the clients specific wish that they keep the 
balance of monies liquid.
Joint Attitude to Risk profile was stated as Balanced defined as: You are prepared to take 
a moderate risk with your money in order to have the potential to receive a better return than 
provided by a lower risk approach, or, to increase its actual value against inflation over time. 
This balanced approach is our middle level of risk
Investment objective was Capital Growth.
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs O both invested into ISAs with an HSBC 
underlying fund  British Fund and European Growth Fund. The British Fund is described as 
growth-oriented fund investing in UK companies. Investments will be diversified and tend to 
be in large blue chip and mid-sized companies, although there may be some smaller-
company exposure. 
The European Growth Fund is described as:
This is a growth-oriented fund investing in European companies (excluding the UK). 
Investments will be well diversified and tend to be in large and mid-sized companies, 
although there may be some smaller-company exposure.
Mr and Mrs Os investment objective was to achieve capital growth and both funds are 
described as growth-oriented.
Mr and Mrs Os attitude to risk was described as balanced and HSBC say that this was their 
middle level of risk. I have reviewed the fund factsheets for the two funds, but it does not 
describe the risk profile of the funds, so I have looked at the how the fund was invested. 
There is limited information available on the factsheets but both funds are invested across a 
wide range of sectors and a small percentage retained in cash. The funds are weighted 
towards equity holdings.
HSBC say that balanced was their middle level of risk. Having looked at the composition of 
the two funds, I wouldnt say that they represent a low risk investment nor a high-risk 
investment. It is my opinion that the funds could be described as carrying a medium 
investment risk and would fit into the risk appetite chosen by Mr and Mrs O.
In their submission to the service, the CMC say that Mr and Mrs O should not have been 
classed as balanced risk investors given their personal circumstances at the time. Ive 
already said that I am unable to say how this classification was arrived at, but I think that on 
the balance of probability, the adviser would have taken Mr and Mrs O through the various 
types of risk and asked them to say which best suited how they felt about investing.
Having reviewed the information available to me when looking at the initial funds invested 
into the ISAs, I cant say that the advice provided by HSBC was unsuitable and I wont be 
asking them to do anything else.
Mr and Mrs O invested the proceeds from a TESSA that had matured. £9,000 was invested 
into a Performance Plus ISA. The CMC say that this investment represented a gamble on 
exceptional stock market performance for reduced growth.In HSBCs response to the CMC, they said that the capital protection offered by the 
investment gave Mr and Mrs O potentially improved longer-term returns but protection from 
a loss of capital. 
There is no documentation available which describes how the Performance Plus ISA product 
was set up, but the CMC have said that is was set up for a period of 5 years and paid 60% of 
any FTSE growth over that period.
The fact find records that Mr and Mrs O were provided with a key features document and I 
assume this relates to the Performance Plus ISA investment. The fact find also states:
The clients also have a maturing TESSA in March 2001 and we have discussed the options 
available to them at this time: this being to continue with a cash-based investment in a 
TESSA ISA account for the original capital investment, or to invest into our Performance 
Plus ISA with the maturing capital.
 
They are prepared to invest the money for the medium to long term and we agreed it was 
appropriate to invest the monies into the Performance Plus ISA. This will be for a fixed 
period of five years and will be for a maximum maturity amount of 60% above the initial 
investment with performance linked to the FTSE100 Index.
Mr and Mrs O did not wish to take excessive risks with their capital and I think that the 
adviser has had this in mind when they recommended this investment. Other options were 
discussed but it is noted that Mr and Mrs O didnt want to continue with a cash-based 
investment like a TESSA. 
The CMC have said that it would have been better for Mr and Mrs O to be invested in fixed 
rate bonds. HSBC have said that with the benefit of hindsight, it may have been possible to 
obtain a better return if Mr and Mrs O had been invested in fixed rate deposits.
The service can only look at what happened at the time of event. The service cant look at 
the complaint with the benefit of hindsight. There is an added difficulty here given that limited 
documentation exists for the Performance Plus ISA investment.
I have considered that Mr and Mrs O did not wish to take excessive risks with their capital. 
This investment gave Mr and Mrs O capital protection with the possibility of capital growth. 
As previously stated, this was an investment objective for Mr an Mrs O. Based on the limited 
information available, I cant say that the advice was unsuitable.
In summary, I think that HSBC considered the personal and financial circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs O and provided them with advice that met their attitude to risk and investment 
objectives. I have not seen any evidence that leads me to believe that the advice provided 
was unsuitable and Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman