DRN-3842297
The complaint
Mrs M complains that JAJA FINANCE LTD (JFL)  previously trading as the Bank of 
Ireland - was irresponsible to have granted her credit.
What happened
In May 2011 Mrs M applied for a credit card with JFL.
In her application for the credit card Mrs M declared (amongst other things) that:
she was an owner occupier
she had been at her current address for over 21 years
she was employed
she had been with her current employer for over 25 years
her gross annual salary was £38,700
she held a current account
she had been with her current bank for 30 years
she held two credit cards
JFL approved Mrs Ms application and she was granted a credit limit of £6,400. JFL says 
that as part of its underwriting checks for the granted credit it considered what Mrs M had 
declared on her application, a provided bank statement and payslip and a credit check with a 
third party credit reference agency. 
In November 2014, and after Mrs M fell into financial difficulties, her credit was revoked by 
JFL.
In April 2016 Mrs M repaid what JFL says was owing and due to it and her account status, 
albeit not immediately, was ultimately recorded as settled with credit reference agencies.
In July 2021 Mrs M complained to JFL that its decision, in 2011, to grant her credit was
irresponsible.
In the same month JFL issued Mrs M with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of
this FRL JFL said it didnt believe it had acted irresponsibly in granting Mrs M the credit
that it did when it did.
Unhappy with JFLs response to her complaint, Mrs M referred the matter to our service.
Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
JFL hadnt been irresponsible when it granted Mrs M credit of £6,400 in 2011. 
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me for
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear that Ive only considered in this decision Mrs Ms complaint 
that JFL was irresponsible to have granted her credit in 2011, not any other complaint she 
might have against JFL, including (but not restricted to) any complaint she might have about 
her credit card account remaining open when it should have been closed.
Secondly, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
Did JFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M
would be able to repay (any credit card debt) in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required JFL to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under the granted 
credit card. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so JFL had to think about whether repaying any 
credit card debt would be sustainable. In practice this meant that JFL had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the credit card wouldnt cause Mrs M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for JFL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the credit card repayments on Mrs M. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit card application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
credit card repayments from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the lending (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended
period)
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
The granted credit limit was £6,400, with interest set at approximately 20% and with 
payments set at approximately 2.5% a month (or approximately £160 a month on a fully 
utilised credit limit of £6,400). These facts, together with what Mrs M declared to JFL about 
her financial circumstances on her application  the accuracy of which isnt in dispute  what 
Mrs Ms (joint) bank statement and payslip dated April 2011 shows/demonstrates and what 
JFL says was information provided to it by one of the major credit reference agencies, Im
satisfied that JFL completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mrs M would be able to repay any accrued credit card debt in a sustainable way. Put another 
way, Im satisfied that JFLs lending wasnt irresponsible.
I would also add that even if I was to agree with Mrs M that JFL should have retained more
documentation than it has in support of its decision to grant her the credit that it did in 2011 
which for the avoidance of doubt I make no finding on  this isnt in itself grounds for me to
uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
I dont dispute that further enquires by JFL might have resulted in information coming to
light that might have led it to change its mind about its decision to lend. But Im satisfied,
based on the information available to JFL at the relevant time, it did nothing wrong in not
making any further enquiries. 
For the sake of completeness, I would add that although I accept that Mrs M fell into financial 
difficulties after her line of credit had been granted, this fact doesnt in itself mean JFLs 
decision to grant the credit that it did when it did was irresponsible. Also, despite what Mrs M 
has submitted to the contrary, Ive seen nothing that would persuade me that JFL ever 
increased her credit limit.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman