DRN-2004891
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Toyota Financial Services (UK) plc, trading as Lexus Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Lexus Financial 
Services that he signed in November 2017. A fault with the cars parking assist function 
started in January 2019 and Mr C complained to the dealer and to the manufacturer. Repairs 
were made in March and June 2019 but the fault returned in October 2019. A further repair 
was made at the suggestion of the manufacturer in January 2020 but the fault returned a few 
days later.
Mr C complained to Lexus Financial Services in January 2020 but it said that the software 
update suggested by the manufacturer had been made and that there were no further 
reported problems. Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Lexus Financial Services had supplied Mr C with a car which was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the fault 
with the parking sensor continued so he returned the car to Lexus Financial Services and 
terminated his agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on complaint to Mr C and to Lexus Financial Services on 18 
December 2020. In that decision I said as follows:
Lexus Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C. Whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was 
supplied to Mr C was a new car that had a price of £43,840 and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors.
Mr C has provided a photo showing the warning message that was displayed about 
the parking assist fault. Repairs were made by the dealer in March 2019, another 
manufacturers dealer in June 2019 and at the suggestion of the manufacturer in 
January 2020  but each time the fault has returned. I consider it to be more likely 
than not, based on the photo, the detailed description given by Mr C, the actions of 
the dealers and manufacturer and Mr Cs decision to return the car and terminate the 
agreement, that there is a fault with the car. 
That fault didnt develop until January 2019  about 14 months after the car was 
supplied to Mr C. But this was a premium new car with a price of £43,840 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for Mr C to expect that it would remain fault free for 
longer than 14 months and that, if any faults did develop, they would be remedied by 
the dealer.
I consider that the fault with the parking sensors shows that the car wasnt as durable 
as it was reasonable for Mr C to expect it to  and that, for that reason, it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. Mr C has ended the agreement and 
the account statement provided by Lexus Financial Services shows that he made 32 
monthly payments of £597.39 for the car (a total of £19,116.48). The hire purchase 
agreement shows that Mr C paid a deposit of £2,500 and that he part-exchanged a 
car which was given a value of £2,225.77.
The agreement was for 42 months and I consider that Mr C has ended it earlier than 
he would otherwise have done because of the issue with the parking sensor. Lexus 
Financial Services says that he owes it a further amount of up to £1,029.26 
depending on the sale value of the car and that it has waived damage charges of 
£138. Mr C has paid a total of £23,842.25 for the car (£19,116.48 plus £2,500 and 
££2,225.77).
If Mr C had kept the car, my conclusion would be that Lexus Financial Services 
should allow him to reject it and that it should: end the agreement; refund the deposit 
and part exchange value that he paid for it; refund 5% of the monthly payments that 
hed made under the agreement for his loss of use and enjoyment of the car; and pay 
him £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been 
caused. 
Mr C has returned the car and terminated the agreement but I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Lexus Financial Services to waive any 
further amount that might be due from Mr C and to refund his deposit and the value 
of the car that he part exchanged, both with interest.
Mr Cs use and enjoyment of the car will have been affected by the issue with the 
parking sensor. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Lexus Financial 
Services to refund to him 5% of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement to compensate him for that loss of use and enjoyment, with interest. I 
consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep the remaining proportion of those 
monthly payments as payment for the use that hes had from the car.
These events will have caused Mr C some distress and inconvenience. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Lexus Financial Services to pay him £250 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr C or Lexus Financial Services, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Mr C has accepted my 
provisional decision but Lexus Financial Services hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr C has accepted my provisional decision and Lexus Financial Services hasnt 
responded to it, I see no reason for me to change that decision.
Putting things rightI find that it would be fair and reasonable for Lexus Financial Services to take the actions set 
out in my provisional decision and which are also set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I order Toyota Financial Services (UK) plc, 
trading as Lexus Financial Services, to:
1. Waive any further charge to Mr C for the termination of the agreement.
2. Refund to Mr C the deposit of £2,500 and the part-exchange value of £2,225.75 that 
he contributed to the price of the car.
3. Refund to Mr C 5% of the monthly payments that he made under the agreement as 
compensation for his loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Pay £250 to Mr C to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lexus Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Lexus Financial Services must give Mr C a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman