DRN-3842856
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in December 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
Mr C had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr C had built up 33 years and 7 months pensionable service in the BSPS. His 
annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the scheme in May 2016 was £16,909.70. 
This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed amount.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, the BSPS issued its Time to Choose communication pack to members 
including Mr C. This explained that BSPS members had three options regarding their 
safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the transfer value available to 
Mr C was £433,402.57)
Mr C was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and wanted advice on his options. He contacted another 
business (Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary regulatory 
permissions to advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr C to IFM. One of IFMs advisers 
recorded the following information about Mr C in December 2017:
He was aged 52, divorced and in good health but expected this to deteriorate. He 
didnt have any children or other people financially dependent on him;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£34,000;
His assets comprised his home which was encumbered with a mortgage. The value 
of his home and any savings or investments he had wasnt recorded;
Other than the mortgage on his main residence (the outstanding loan value wasnt 
recorded), he didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, he had surplus disposable income of about £300 
to £500 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since June 2016. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 12% of his gross annual salary (the value of his DC 
plan wasnt recorded but, by that point, total contributions of about £4,000 had been 
invested);
He was an inexperienced investor. He had little in the way of other assets or 
pensions to fund his retirement. On a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 (Cautious risk) was 
lowest risk and 5 (Adventurous risk) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined 
to be 1 or Cautious risk; and
His primary objective regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than the 
BSPS normal retirement age of 65. He wanted to retire from age 55 or as soon as 
possible after that age.
Following the fact find meeting, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in December 2017. 
This explained to Mr C that he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits as set 
out in the Time to Choose communication pack. IFMs adviser recommended that Mr C 
transfer to a PPP provided by Prudential for the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.15% (or £5,000)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.35% product fee deducted from the PPP fund valueThe basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr C to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
IFM calculated Mr Cs estimated revalued annual scheme pension at age 65 as £23,566.62 
on the basis he took a full scheme pension only. It calculated the critical yield to match that 
benefit as 7.8%. The calculation assumed 0% ongoing advice costs. The critical yield at age 
55  to align with the age at which Mr C wanted to retire  wasnt calculated.
Mr C accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in the following funds to align with            
Mr Cs Cautious risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Cautious 80% 5.50%
Prufund Growth 20% 6.20%
Weighted estimated annual growth rate before charges was 5.64%
This complaint
During 2021, Mr C complained to IFM about the suitability of its pension transfer advice. He 
thought that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr C was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr C to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money from age 55. It was satisfied that it had 
adhered to and considered relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr C with 
all the necessary information and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an informed 
decision. It didnt believe the alternative options of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met Mr Cs 
early retirement objective. In its view, the pension transfer to the PPP was in his best 
interests and so was therefore suitable. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in her view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the PPP was 
clearly in Mr Cs best interests compared to the alternative options. She thought suitable 
advice wouldve been to transfer to the PPF on the basis that Mr C was unmarried and his 
primary objective was to retire early. Based on the contemporaneous evidence, she was 
persuaded it was more likely than not he would retire earlier than age 65. Since it was known 
at the time the PPF was the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to 
retire early or take the maximum tax-free, she recommended that it be used as the 
comparator scheme for redress purposes. To put things right, our investigator recommended 
that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that             
Mr C transferred to the PPF, took benefits at age 58 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in 
retirement. She specified age 58 because Mr C retired in 2020 when aged 55 due to 
unanticipated ill-health and initially relied on savings to meet living costs. But by 2023 he had exhausted his savings and was seeking in 2023, when aged 58, to start withdrawing money 
from his PPP. So she concluded that had he transferred to the PPF in 2018, as she believed 
he ought to have done, he wouldve likely started withdrawing benefits from that scheme 
from age 58. In addition, she recommended that IFM pay Mr C £300 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation. 
Mr C accepted our investigators assessment. IFM replied and stated that it didnt agree with 
the outcome and provided additional comments in response. Our investigator considered 
these but wasnt persuaded to change her view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint has been referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr C, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Cs situation
The situation for Mr C wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr C. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr C to retain guaranteed lifetime income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr C 
still had the option to retain guaranteed benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. It was known at the time of the advice that the PPF would pay a higher 
level of income and tax-free cash than the BSPS2 on early retirement. Given the FCAs 
position, and for the reasons stated by our investigator, its my fair and reasonable opinion 
that IFM shouldve considered that the PPF was likely to be better option for Mr C based on 
his circumstances. And so IFM shouldve only recommend a transfer to the PPP in favour of 
the PPF if it could clearly demonstrate it was in Mr Cs best interests, as referenced in COBS 
19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr C was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. In summary:
Mr Cs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 33 years and 7 months pensionable 
service, represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. I 
think its fair to say that when he came to retire, he would be heavily reliant on the 
value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to 
support his standard of living in retirement. So I think it was important not to expose the value of these benefits to unnecessary risk given his limited capacity for loss and 
ability to replenish any losses over the short timeframe until he retired;
IFM recorded that Mr C had limited knowledge and experience of investments. So he 
was an inexperienced investor. He had little in the way of other assets or pensions to 
fund his retirement. He had a Cautious risk profile which was defined as, I am a 
cautious investor who requires little risk to their pension capital. I seek stability and 
conservative growth. I consider security to be generally more important than 
increasing my income. Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and 
longevity risks associated with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the 
scheme to Mr C. Those risks wouldve been retained by the PPF had he transferred 
to that scheme. Taking these factors into account, its my view that there needed to 
be a compelling reason why it was suitable for an inexperienced, low risk investor like 
Mr C with limited capacity for loss to transfer to the PPP compared to the alternative 
option of retaining guaranteed lifetime income under the PPF;
At the time of the advice, Mr C was aged 52. He couldnt access any benefits until 
age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. IFM recorded that he wanted to retire from age 
55 or as soon as possible after that age. His annual retirement income need from 
age 55 was recorded as about £18,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms. Its unclear 
what this was based on. The estimated annual pension payable by the PPF at age 
65 was about £19,700. Even though Mr Cs primary objective was to retire early from 
age 55, IFM didnt calculate the estimated benefits payable by the PPF at age 55 and 
so Mr C wasnt able to make an informed decision in this regard. The lower level of 
income may have met Mr Cs needs. And so I think IFM failed to clearly demonstrate 
that transferring to the PPP to achieve the early retirement objective was in Mr Cs 
bests interests;
IFM recorded that Mr C was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. Im not 
persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced and Cautious risk investor 
like Mr C to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits. And in any event, 
theres no real evidence that Mr C required the flexibility of irregular lump sums, 
variable income or staggered income during retirement. Flexibility and control might 
sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr C had any concrete need for it. It was 
recorded that he preferred choice and control over guaranteed lifetime income, 
however Im not sure what this was based on. He had received guaranteed income 
all his working life and had a Cautious risk profile. So I think a guaranteed income 
wouldve been valuable for an individual in Mr Cs circumstances. In any event, he 
was expected to continue contributing 12% of his annual salary into his workplace 
DC plan for at least the next few years to age 55. So he wouldve had flexible options 
available through the tax-free cash available under the PPF and the DC plan without 
taking risk on his main pension provision;
IFM recorded that Mr C was very concerned about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits and didnt value the guarantee provided by the PPF. And so it recommended 
the transfer to the PPP to remove the risk that Mr C might be transferred to the PPF. 
As an inexperienced investor who had enjoyed guaranteed employed income during 
the previous 30 years, its unclear to me on what basis an individual in Mr Cs 
circumstances would decide that he didnt value the guarantee provided by the 
PPF. While I understand that Mr C may have been concerned about the security of 
his safeguarded benefits, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an outcome for 
him to avoid. Under the PPF, he wouldve received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a 
minimum level of benefits payable. If Mr C was concerned about his safeguarded 
benefits being transferred to the PPF which would result in him losing 10% of his 
scheme pension, then I question why, as an inexperienced and Cautious risk 
investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to 
unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%; 
Payment of benefits before age 65 under the PPF would be subject to an early 
retirement reduction on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits are 
taken, the greater the reduction applied to income. But this isnt a penalty. Rather, 
the reduction is applied to reflect the fact that the PPF will have to support the 
income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the interests of members generally. 
I cant see that IFM adequately explained this to Mr C. And so he may have 
incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took benefits early under the 
PPF when this wasnt actually the case;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr C so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
A change in the format of death benefits was another apparent objective for Mr C 
transferring to the PPP. While I understand that death benefits are important to 
consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr C about what was best 
for his own retirement provision. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income 
and lump sum needs from age 55 onwards would likely mean that the size of the 
fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller 
than expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mr C. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. Mr C was then divorced and didnt have 
any children or other people financially dependent on him. So its questionable why it 
was deemed suitable for him to transfer to a PPP at that time to change the format of 
death benefits at the cost of losing guaranteed income. Its my view that Mr C had no 
health issues at the time IFM  advised him which might reasonably have prompted 
him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake 
of an enhanced safety net for beneficiaries who werent financially dependent on him;
For the reasons stated above, I dont think there was any need to transfer at that 
time. The critical yield figures attached to the transaction further undermine the case 
for a pension transfer. IFM calculated the critical yield to match the benefits under the 
BSPS at age 65 as 7.8%. This compared with a discount rate of 4.%, as explained by 
our investigator in her assessment. I think the critical yield figure of 7.8% was 
misleading and understated the true, higher critical yield. Ill explain why. The basis of 
the advice was that Firm A would provide ongoing advice to Mr C at a cost  but the 
cost wasnt stated in the suitability report or taken into account when calculating the 
critical yield. Other evidence indicates that the cost was 0.75% per year of the PPP 
fund value. Including that ongoing advice cost means the true critical yield figure at 
age 65 was nearer 8.0% which increased the risk that Mr C would be worse off by 
transferring. And so I think IFM misled Mr C in this regard;Notwithstanding this, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr C was seeking to 
take benefits at age 55. If that was the case then I wouldve expected IFM to also 
calculate the critical yield figure at that age to enable Mr C to make an informed 
decision. But it appears it only calculated and presented the figure at age 65. I think 
this is a material oversight because the figure at younger ages wouldve been higher 
(compared to at age 65) due to the shorter investment timeframe and impact of the 
initial advice charge on the required growth rate. This means that Mr C wasnt 
provided accurate information about the level of investment growth required to match 
the scheme pension if he took benefits early. And so the critical yield figure at age 55 
was likely to be well in excess of 8.0%. Its my view that such a rate of required 
investment growth was incompatible with Mr Cs Cautious risk profile, discount rate 
and the estimated annual growth rate of 5.64% (before charges) of the 
recommended investment strategy. I think these factors showed that it was likely             
Mr C would be financially worse off as a result of the pension transfer;
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why 
Mr Cs early retirement, flexibility, control and death benefits objectives wouldve 
been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees 
by transferring to a PPP at that time. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me 
the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr C gaining any clearly defined advantage 
compared to the alternative option of transferring to the PPF. As a result, I think its 
fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that given Mr Cs circumstances and objectives, IFM shouldve 
advised him to transfer to the PPF on the basis of prospective early retirement. I agree with 
the reasons she set out in her assessment about why redress should be calculated on the 
basis that Mr C took benefits from age 58. I recognise that there would be a 10% reduction 
in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF and that income in respect of service 
before 6 April 1997 wouldnt escalate in payment. The BSPS2 wouldnt cut the starting 
entitlement for deferred members. But the reduction for early retirement under the PPF, 
proposed here at 58, was lower and would likely have more than offset the 10% reduction. 
The commutation factor for converting pension income into tax-free cash was also slightly 
more favourable under the PPF compared to the BSPS2  and its my view that maximum 
tax-free cash was attractive to Mr C. And so both the starting income and the tax-free cash 
would likely have been higher under the PPF compared to the BSPS2. So, compensation 
should be based on Mr C taking benefits from the PPF at age 58. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent Mr C and our service upon completion of the 
calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr C accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr C £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr C any interest 
on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr C any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C. 
If Mr C accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr C can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman