DRN-4080829
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have unfairly declined a claim 
under his Property Owners insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Mr W tells us that a property he owns suffered damage during a storm in February 
2020
Mr Ws tenants werent occupying the property, so the damage wasnt discovered 
until Mr W visited the house in August 2020.
Mr W submitted a claim for damage caused by the storm and instructed contractors 
to carry out repairs.
Ageas declined the claim saying the damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm event 
and the water ingress had been gradually operating.
Mr W was unhappy with this and complained to Ageas.
In its final response letter dated 5 October 2022 Ageas said its technical team had 
carried out a full file review and it maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence of storm 
damage to the roof or that this caused water ingress. He wasnt persuaded that the 
storm conditions were the sole cause of the damage to the property and felt Ageas 
had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Mr W asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons. 
There is no dispute the policy provides cover for storm damage. The issue I have to decide 
is whether Ageas acted reasonably in declining the claim.
I appreciate Mr W has strong feelings on his case and if I dont mention a particular point 
hes made or piece of testimony hes provided it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel it necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr 
W doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service
When deciding a claim for storm damage there are 3 main issues I have to consider:
Do I agree storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ageas have not disputed whether there was a storm on the night the incident occurred. So 
Im persuaded its more likely there was a storm.
Ive then gone on to consider if the damage is consistent with that a storm typically causes 
and were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage.
Ageas instructed property claims management specialists to visit the property. The visit took 
place on 6 October 2020, after Mr W had completed external repairs, and the surveyor 
comments that the external damage related to a coping stone on a parapet wall of the roof 
that Mr W believes was dislodged by the storm. The surveyor says no photos were provided 
(by Mr W) of any storm related damage or the coping stones in situ after the claim storm 
damage. And he goes on to say he was not able to substantiate any storm related damage 
to the external areas as the repairs have been carried out and no photos were available.
Ive considered what both parties have said. Im not entirely persuaded all the damage is 
consistent with that typically caused by a storm however, the dislodged coping stone 
couldve been caused by the storm. And as theres some debate, Ill go on to consider the 
final issue - were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage.
The report from the claims management specialists appointed by Ageas concluded that:
Following a thorough inspection by the attending surveyor the claim was declined. No 
damage consistent with peril was found to be evident, the damage was the result of wear 
and tear being highlighted by the recent weather conditions. 
Ageas have also provided comments from a technical manager who has reviewed the report 
from 6 October 2020 and an inventory and schedule of plight and condition report, 
commonly known as an end of tenancy report, from January 2020, shortly before the storm 
happened. He concludes the extent of the damage is not consistent with a one-off storm 
event. 
The technical manager also notes the overall condition of the roof area below the slate, 
specifically the mortar that is holding the lead flashing in place is poor and has several 
fractures and that driving rain could find a way through. He adds that the work noted in the 
quote Mr W provided is more consistent with long-term damp or ingress of water over many 
months or years.
Ive considered the evidence and testimony both parties have submitted, including 
comments from the loss adjuster initially appointed to the claim, and Im more persuaded by 
the evidence Ageas has provided. Im not persuaded the internal damage is consistent with 
that a storm typically causes. On balance I find it more likely the storm highlighted an 
existing problem and wasnt the main cause of the damage.
In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied Ageas have acted reasonably in declining the 
claim and I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman