DRN-3023904
The complaint
Mr M complains he was misled into entering into a finance agreement and Junction 17 Cars 
Limited has refused to return his deposit.
What happened
Mr M agreed to buy a car in September 2020 and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
that was administered by Junction 17 Cars Limited. The agreement was for 48 months. Mr M 
provided a deposit of £1000 and also purchased a bodywork insurance policy for £299.
When Mr M inspected the finance agreement, he noticed that there was an additional £1200 
added to the cash price of the car which he hadnt agreed. Mr M asked in an email what the 
additional costs were for and he was told that these were for additional products purchased. 
Mr M said that he had not agreed any additional products other than the bodywork insurance 
which was paid in full and a warranty of £7 per month. Mr M was then told by Junction 17 
Cars that the original quote for finance was with a different lender.
Mr M stated that he no longer wished to proceed and asked for a return of his deposit and 
the £299 paid for the bodywork insurance. 
Junction 17 Cars have not returned the money and have not responded to Mr Ms complaint 
or any requests from this service.
Our investigator thought that Mr M had been misled into paying the deposit and entering into 
a finance agreement because of the incorrect figures given to him. They thought that Mr M 
should have his deposit and insurance premium returned together with interest and a further 
£100 for trouble and upset. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and so I wont repeat them in detail here. Instead Ill 
focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Junction 17 Cars were acting as the credit broker for the finance agreement. It is clear from 
what Mr M has said and the emails from Junction 17 Cars that Mr M was given a different 
cash price on the day he agreed to buy the goods compared to the figures in the finance 
agreement. 
Mr M agreed to buy the car and the insurance policy because of the incorrect information 
that was given to him by Junction 17 Cars. I think it is fair and reasonable that Mr M should 
be able to withdraw from the agreement without any cost to him.
Mr M should have his deposit and insurance premium returned together with interest as he 
has been unable to use that money.
This has caused Mr M considerable trouble and upset, and Junction 17 Cars have not dealt 
with his complaint which has added to the frustration. 
Putting things right
To put things right Junction 17 Cars Limited should:
Refund the deposit of £1,000 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
Refund the bodywork insurance of £299;
Award compensation of £100 for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Junction 17 Cars Limited should put 
things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman