DRN-3614370
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs F have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions they 
say they didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In October 2021, Mrs Fs card and PIN were used to pay £240 to a property services 
merchant via a portable card reader. The following month, Mr Js card and PIN were used to 
pay £100 to the same merchant, also on a portable card reader.
Mr J and Mrs F said it was impossible for anyone to physically access both of their cards, 
and they hadnt lost them or given them to anyone. They still had the cards in their 
possession afterwards. Their respective PINs were random numbers, and they hadnt told 
anyone else their PINs or written their PINs down anywhere. There was no one close to 
them who they thought couldve done this without their permission.
Barclays held Mr J and Mrs F liable for the payments in dispute, as they didnt see how 
someone couldve used both cards and PINs without consent. Mr J and Mrs F thought their 
card details were probably used instead, or that this was a hack or system error.
Our investigator looked into things independently and confirmed that both Mr J and Mrs Fs 
physical cards really had been used. They found there wasnt a likely way someone could 
have got both cards and PINs without Mr J and Mrs Fs permission. And they noted that Mr J 
had made a genuine transaction on his card just minutes after his disputed one. So they 
thought it was most likely these were genuine payments which Mr J and Mrs F no longer 
remembered making.
Mr J and Mrs F didnt agree. They felt sure their physical cards had not been used. They 
pointed out that the merchants registered address was some distance from Mr Js next 
genuine payment. And they felt we should look into the merchant. They asked for their case 
to be reviewed afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly, Barclays could hold Mr J and Mrs F liable for the payments in dispute if they 
authorised them.
Im satisfied from Barclays technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr J and 
Mrs Fs genuine respective cards, and the correct respective PINs. While I know that Mr J 
and Mrs F feel strongly that this must not be the case, the records here are clear. Both 
payments were made using their physical cards and the right PINs on the first try. It was not 
a case of their card details being used instead, nor a hacking or cloning incident, nor 
anything going wrong on Barclays end.
So Im satisfied these payments were properly authenticated. But I also need to think about 
whether its most likely Mr J and Mrs F consented to the transactions or not, based on the 
evidence I have.
First, Ive considered the possibility that this was done by a thief who Mr J and Mrs F didnt 
know beforehand.
Mr J and Mrs F said they didnt give their cards to anyone and didnt lose them. They felt it 
was impossible anyone could have physically accessed both of their cards without their 
consent. But these two disputed payments were made using their physical cards. 
Importantly, I can see that Mr J and Mrs F still had each card after each disputed payment, 
since they continued to use them after. And I dont see why a thief would return the card to 
their victim afterwards, especially after spending such a relatively small proportion of the 
accounts balance. Returning the card would drastically increase the thiefs chances of 
getting caught, while providing no benefit to them, and actively stopping them from being 
able to steal as much money as they could have. Further, theres no likely way they could 
have taken and replaced both cards without Mr J or Mrs F ever noticing something was 
wrong  not least as Mr J made a genuine purchase just minutes after the disputed payment 
on his card, leaving an unreasonably small window for a thief to put his card back.
Meanwhile, the PIN for each card was entered correctly on the first try each time. And the 
respective PINs were random numbers that Mr J and Mrs F said they hadnt told anyone or 
written down anywhere. And they hadnt made any card and PIN payments in the hours 
before each disputed payment, so there was no chance for an opportunistic thief watch them 
entering their PIN earlier in the day. Further, Barclays staff were not able to view their PINs, 
as Mr J and Mrs F suggested. So there is no likely or plausible way that an unknown thief 
could have learned either Mr J or Mrs Fs PIN  let alone both. 
So I dont see a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.
Ive then considered the possibility that someone known to Mr J and Mrs F may have made 
the transactions without their permission. But I dont think thats likely either. Again, it is not 
plausible that a friend would be able to take and replace both cards without Mr J or Mrs F 
ever noticing  not least given the unreasonably small gap between the disputed payment on 
Mr Js card and his next genuine payment, and given that Mr J and Mrs F felt it was 
impossible for anyone to physically access their cards. And theres not a very likely way they 
could have memorised not just one PIN, but both PINs, to the point they could enter them on 
the first try. Mr J and Mrs F only lived with their small children, so there was no one else who 
could do this by accessing their property. And they were clear that they didnt think anyone 
they knew could have done this.
The last possibility is that these two payments were genuine payments that Mr J and Mrs F 
authorised.That would fit very well with the evidence at hand, given that both Mr J and Mrs Fs genuine 
cards were used, alongside each PIN being entered correctly on the first try both times. And 
it seems that only Mr J and Mrs F had access to their respective cards and PINs.
The payments went to a registered merchant whos been trading for years, using a genuine 
portable card reader, issued by an established card reader company. The merchant in 
question provides fire prevention services like installing residential sprinklers. And at the 
time, Mr J and Mrs F had just bought a new property, so it would make sense for them to 
use a merchant like that. Its common for merchants trading names to be different from their 
limited company name, or for customers to deal directly with the companys individual 
contractor. So it would be understandable if Mr J and Mrs F didnt recognise the merchants 
limited company name. And sometimes people do accidentally dispute genuine payments for 
reasons like that, not least when caught up in all the hustle and bustle of moving home. So it 
seems very plausible for this to have been a genuine payment, even if Mr J and Mrs F dont 
recognise the company name on their statements.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr J and 
Mrs F couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
Mr J and Mrs F pointed out that the merchants registered address was a fair distance from 
where Mr J made his next genuine payment. But the disputed payments were made using 
portable card readers, not fixed terminals at a fixed address. Theres nothing to indicate that 
the payments were made at the registered address. Its normal for contractors and similar 
merchants to use portable card readers, so that customers can pay them without having to 
go all the way to the registered address.
I also understand that Mr J and Mrs F would like us to look into the merchant. But I do not 
have the power to investigate the merchant. I only have the power to look into Barclays. 
I can only consider whether Barclays got things right or wrong, based on the evidence at 
hand. And Im afraid it looks like they acted reasonably in this case. Mr J and Mrs F could 
always take action against the merchant directly themselves, though they may wish to seek 
legal advice about that route.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr J and Mrs Fs genuine card and PIN were used. Based on 
the evidence, there isnt a likely or plausible way an unknown thief did this, or that someone 
known to Mr J and Mrs F did this without their permission. Indeed, Mr J and Mrs F 
themselves seem to have ruled out that possibility. That leaves only one likely possibility  
that Mr J and Mrs F made the transactions or gave someone else permission to make them. 
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr J and 
Mrs F to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Barclays to decline a refund in this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman