DRN-3878679
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) declined 
a claim she made under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs L has pet insurance with C&G. The policy covers vet fees up to £4,000 per condition in 
each policy year. 
Mrs L has a pet dog, who Ill refer to as P, who underwent a surgical procedure in January 
2022. Mrs L says P had a left lateral suture performed for left hind lameness. The cost of the 
treatment was over £3,000. 
In April 2022 she received a letter from the Veterinary Clinic to say C&G had declined the 
claim on the basis the condition was pre-existing. 
Mrs L says P twisted her front right leg while on a walk in October 2020. The vet said P had 
soft tissue damage to her front right leg and prescribed a week-long course of painkillers 
following which P fully recovered. 
In January 2022 P was on a walk when she suddenly wouldnt put any weight on her left 
hind leg. Mrs L says she was limping, only walking on three legs, and could only put her left 
hind leg down when she was standing still. So Mrs L took P to the vet who examined her and 
initially said it was soft tissue damage to her left hind leg. P was prescribed painkillers. 
There was no improvement to Ps left hind leg so Mrs L took her back to the vet who said 
she would need an x-ray under sedation, which she did a few days later. The vet said P 
likely had cranial cruciate ligament rupture in her left hind leg which would ultimately require 
surgery. 
Mrs L said she considered the option for surgery carefully, including checking her insurance 
policy and seeing P was covered for up to £4,000 per condition. Mrs L says she agreed to 
the option for left lateral suture to ensure the costs were covered by the policy. 
P had the left lateral suture surgery at the end of January 2022 and the vet submitted the 
claim form to the insurer. Mrs L says the vet was aware of her insurance cover and she 
ensured the treatment was covered under the policy. 
C&G declined the claim. Initially it said it was because the surgery was due to a pre-existing 
condition. But when Mrs L disputed this it said the claim was declined because P was 
overweight for a number of years. Mrs L wasnt happy and so she complained to C&G. 
C&G said Mrs L submitted a claim for Left Hind Lameness and when the claim was reviewed 
the assessor declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. C&G said it 
didnt provide cover for claims that arise from the dog being medically overweight  and 
since P had been overweight for years it wouldnt cover the cost of the claim. 
Mrs L was not happy with the response received from C&G. And so she referred her 
complaint to our service. The investigator looked into things for her and upheld the 
complaint. She said if C&G want to decline a claim based on a policy exclusion it needs to 
demonstrate the exclusion applies. And she wasnt persuaded it had done so. The 
investigator recommended C&G paid the cost of the claim. 
C&G disagreed with the investigators outcome and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The issue in this complaint is whether Ps weight had anything to do with the condition being 
claimed for. 
Initially C&G said the claim was declined due to the condition being pre-existing. When 
challenged it agreed the condition wasnt pre-existing. P was initially seen for lameness in 
her right front leg. The issue was treated as a sprain and she recovered fine. So I can see 
why C&G changed its reasoning here. 
C&G are relying on the following in declining Mrs Ls claim. Under the section of the policy 
What is not insured it says, any claims resulting from your pet being medically overweight 
or underweight and this results in your pet needing treatment as a result of not being the 
recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a vet.
C&G said because there are references to Ps increased weight within the clinical history of 
the dog it meant it was entitled to decline the claim. 
However in order to do this C&G must show the causal relationship between the need for the 
operation and the weight gain. According to the clinical history Ps ideal weight is 4.7kg. Ps 
weight has fluctuated from 4.7kg in November 2017, to 5.6kg in January 2022. So I can see 
why C&G commented that P had been overweight for years. But the clause in the policy 
goes on to say, and this results in your pet needing treatment as a result of not being the 
recommended medical weight.  So the term requires the issue to be wholly causative of the 
condition claimed. And the vet has confirmed that Ps injury is not related to her weight. 
I dont consider C&Gs response to Mrs Ls vet meets its own policy definition. It said the 
following: 
The vets have confirmed in the clinical notes the ideal weight for P as 4.7kg, if the vet has 
not informed the owner the pet is not at ideal weight then this would be something to be 
discussed with the vet. 
The weight charts provided by the vet practice, show that P has been over her ideal weight 
for the majority of her adult life and her ideal weight has been detailed on two occasions, 3 
years apart, so you could assume this is an accurate ideal weight for P.
Extensive research states nutrition and weight is linked with a higher chance of developing 
cruciate ligament problems. Whilst this could be because of the above normal weight on the 
joint, it may also be because fat cells release pro-inflammatory messages, increasing 
inflammation in many parts of the body.C&G havent shown anything which details weight being the single causative issue of 
cruciate ligament disease its own policy clause demands. 
C&Gs argument appears to be that there is evidence to show P was overweight. But I dont 
think that is in dispute. And I think its important to note Mrs Ls dog was just over the top end 
of the normal weight for her breed, her maximum weight being 5.6kg, and so wasnt 
excessively overweight. The clause in the policy demands the cause of the claim to be from 
the pet being overweight. It is for C&G to discharge this burden of proof and I consider it 
hasnt done so. 
It is singularly unreasonable to highlight evidence of the pets weight and base the claims 
decision on that. Thats not what the clause says. The clause is very clear that the weight 
issue must be causative of the claim. And the expert here has said the injury isnt related to 
Ps weight. 
C&G hasnt provided any evidence of its own (aside from referring to extensive research) to 
counter the evidence provided by Mrs L. And I find the evidence from Mrs L far more 
persuasive than the view presented by C&G, who appear to be relying on the fact that P was 
overweight at various points in her life. 
Putting things right
I consider C&G should now pay this claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy, with interest if Mrs L has already discharged the vets fees. 
My final decision
So for the reasons Ive explained above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to do the following; 
Pay Mrs Ls claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy,
If Mrs L has already discharged her vets fees, add interest of 8% simple from the 
date Mrs L discharged to the date C&G reimburses her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman