DRN-3402361
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Grove & Dean Ltd, trading as Performance Direct, 
(Performance) made an error when setting up their home insurance policy. They say this led 
to them being unable to make a full claim on that policy for a valuable engagement ring.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out their home insurance policy online through Performance in August 
2018. This provided buildings and contents cover. Some higher value items were listed on 
the policy individually. But Mrs Ks engagement ring, which was valued at in excess of 
£14,000, was not one of the individually listed items. 
After completing the policy purchase Mrs K spoke to Performance to see if she could add 
her engagement ring to the policy. The call handler told her it may be difficult to find insurers 
who would be willing to quote to cover it. Mrs K told the agent shed got a quote to cover the 
ring separately.
Ahead of the August 2020 policy renewal, Performance sent Mr and Mrs K a renewal 
document in July 2020. This document contained a Statement of Disclosure which listed 
Mrs Ks engagement ring under Specified Items. 
Mrs K said she lost her engagement ring in April 2021. She said that after three days of 
searching for it she made a claim under the policy. She said she was initially told that the 
engagement ring was covered. But then the insurer declined the claim for the full value of 
the engagement ring as it said it wasnt specified under the policy. From what I understand, 
the insurer told Mr and Mrs K they could claim £3,000 under the policy, as the engagement 
ring wasnt listed as a specified item. 
Mrs K felt that engagement ring was specified under the policy. Shed seen it on the renewal 
document from July 2020. She said that at this point she was told the renewal document was 
incorrect. She was told that the engagement ring had been incorrectly listed when shed 
previously asked for a quote to have it added to the policy cover. 
Mrs K said she did take a separate policy for the engagement ring for that year. But that 
when the 2020 renewal showed that the engagement ring was covered, she didn't need to 
take out a separate policy. She said she didnt accept the insurers offer to pay the £3,000 
the engagement ring was covered for under the policy, as it was worth considerably more 
than the £14,000 it had originally cost. Mr and Mrs K complained to Performance.
Performance issued their final response to the complaint in July 2021. They didnt uphold it. 
They provided a transcript of the relevant part of the call where Mrs K had discussed adding 
her engagement ring to the policy in 2018. But decided instead to go with a standalone 
policy. Performance said that the policy documents thatd been issued after the renewal 
documents included the policy schedule. They said this showed the specified items and 
didnt include the engagement ring. Performance apologised for the error in the Statement 
of Disclosure. They said that as soon as they were made aware of the issue, they corrected 
it. Performance said that the Statement of Disclosure was used for their administration 
purposes. And that the Insurer's policy documents, which detailed the actual insurance 
contract, didnt show the engagement ring as covered under the policy. They said that Mr 
and Mrs K couldve contacted them at any time to make them aware of the discrepancy 
between the documents issued. And that the error wouldve corrected. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with Performances response. So they brought their complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
Performance had made an error when they included Mrs Ks engagement ring on their 
Statement of Disclosure. But agreed that the insurers policy documents formed the 
contract of the insurance. She felt the importance of checking the information included had 
been clearly highlighted to Mr and Mrs K.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs K. 
But, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that while Performance did make an error, Mr and 
Mrs K had enough information available to them to realise what had happened. Therefore 
Im dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Performance to cover the 
non-insured cost of the lost engagement ring. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that Performance made an error when they listed the engagement ring 
under Specified Items within their Statement of Disclosure. What is in dispute is whether 
this error prevented Mr and Mrs K from having adequate insurance cover for the 
engagement ring. 
Performance have confirmed to this service that the premium on the renewal quote in July 
2020 didnt include a premium for Mrs K's engagement ring to be listed under Specified 
Items. They felt that it had been incorrectly listed there after Mrs K had asked them to 
provide a quote for its inclusion in 2018. Performance confirmed that the engagement ring 
had never been covered as a Specified Item under the policy. They said the policy 
schedule detailed the items which were covered as a Specified Item. 
Mrs K said that while she had bought a standalone policy for the engagement ring in 2018, 
she didnt think this had any bearing on the home insurance policy she purchased in 2020. 
She said that as the 2020 renewal document had said her engagement ring was fully 
covered under the policy, she had no reason to believe otherwise. She didnt feel that she 
shouldve known an error had been made. Mrs K said she only found after making the claim 
that her policy documents didn't have her engagement ring specified. She said she wasnt 
told about this. 
Ive looked at the Policy schedule which covers the year from 17 August 2020. This shows 
that the only Specified Items covered under the policy were a watch, and two rings valued 
at £3,000 and £3,500. No engagement ring was specified. Mr and Mrs K were also sent a 
Home Insurance Confirmation letter around this time. This said: 
Please read the enclosed information together with your policy documents to ensure the 
details are correct and that the policy meets your requirements. You should notify us 
immediately if you require any amendments to be made to your information or the policy.I acknowledge that the insurance documents had to be accessed through an online portal. 
And that Mrs K said that she had difficulty logging in. So she didnt review the policy 
documents. And I can understand why she assumed that the policy provided the cover that 
had been detailed on the Statement of Disclosure. Despite that, I consider that its 
reasonable to require policyholders to review the paperwork to check that the policy provided 
the level of cover they expected and needed. Im satisfied that the documents Performance 
sent to Mr and Mrs K highlighted that they would need to review the information recorded. I 
say this because the Statement of Disclosure Performance sent to Mr and Mrs K in July 
2020 states:
This document is a record of some of the statements made, and information given, by you 
to Performance Direct. The information shown is used by us for our administration purposes 
and it is separate to your insurer's proposal form or statement of fact. Please note that it is 
the insurers' proposal form or statement of fact that forms part of your insurance contract.
If any of the statements or information shown below are incorrect or incomplete you must 
contact us immediately so that we can make any necessary alterations. Failure to do so 
could invalidate your cover or result in a claim being rejected or not fully paid. 
Im very sorry that Mr and Mrs K werent fully covered for their loss under their policy. I can 
see that the claim was stressful and appreciate that the lost item is of great sentimental 
value. But Im satisfied that if theyd read the policy documents, as they were clearly 
instructed to, they wouldve realised the error and been able to take steps to get the level of 
cover they needed for the engagement ring. I do acknowledge that Performance made a 
mistake in their Statement of Disclosure. But Im not persuaded that this directly caused the 
loss. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. And I dont require Performance to take any 
actions. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman