DRN-1689294
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
didnt settle their claim in full when they claimed for accidental damage under the home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim for accidental damage to their insurer, LV in March 2019. A 
kitchen wall cupboard had collapsed and caused damage to the worktop and floor. They said 
that due to the items inside the cupboard, there was a risk of glass inside a number of items 
that were in the kitchen including their kettle and toaster. 
LV sent two agents to Mr and Mrs Ss home to assess their claim and both said the damage 
to the worktop and floor was caused by wear and tear and not by the incident. LV settled 
their claim by paying a cash sum for replacing the damaged contents and 50% toward the 
costs of replacing the kitchen units that werent damaged in line with the policy. 
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs S complained to LV. They said they werent transparent as to the 
reasons why the agents had been instructed. They were under the impression the claim had 
been approved and the agents were assessing how the damage could be repaired  not how 
the damage could have been caused. They were also unhappy about the length of time it 
took to deal with the claim. 
LV paid Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation as it said there were times it handled the claim 
poorly and didnt reply to Mrs Ss email dated 16 May 2019. But it said its decision was 
correct. It said the damage to the floor was too far away and due to the material of the floor 
tile, unlikely to have been caused by the incident. It said damage to the worktop was most 
likely due to wear and tear. 
But Mrs S said they never claimed for one of two areas of damage to the worktop the first 
agent mentioned. They said from the outset it was there before the incident. So they felt the 
first agent had misled LV. And although the second agent asked how the damage was 
caused, he didnt note this in a report he asked them to sign. They offered to provide photos 
multiple times to show how far the debris had travelled when the cupboard fell to support 
their claim for the floor damage. But LV hasnt asked for them. They believe the photos are 
persuasive. 
So Mr and Mrs S asked us to look at their complaint. They want LV to pay a cash settlement 
to cover the cost to replace the floor and the worktop.
Our investigator thought LV had acted reasonably. He said that it had relied on the opinion of 
two experts when reaching its decision. So he didnt recommend Mr and Mrs S complaint 
should be upheld. As LV had given Mr and Mrs S the option to obtain their own loss adjuster 
report, he thought this was fair. He didnt think the photos Mr and Mrs S had taken after the 
incident would carry more weight than the agents opinions. So he didnt think LV were 
wrong not to ask for them.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said their complaint about the process LV followed hasnt 
been addressed. Mr and Mrs S dont believe its fair that they should be put to the cost of 
obtaining a report to support their claim. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs S believe LV wasnt clear as to the reasons why the agents 
attended their property. But I think its fair for an insurer to carry out reasonable enquiries 
when it receives a claim. When LV replied to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, it explained it needs 
to carry out checks before it can agree to cover a claim. 
Photos provided by the first agent show the area of damage to the floor tile is at the opposite 
end of a galley kitchen to the wall where the kitchen cupboard fell from. The first agent 
reported that the floor tile appeared to be made of porcelain and therefore it would require 
extra force for it to be damaged in the manner described. So the location of the damaged 
floor tile wasnt the only reason why the agent thought the damage wasnt caused by the 
incident. The first agent was of the opinion that the damage to the worktop and tile floor was 
wear and tear. He did refer to a second area of damage on the worktop which he said 
couldnt have been caused by the incident. And I appreciate that Mrs S said they never 
claimed for this particular damage under this claim. But the first agent was of the view that 
overall the damage was as a result of wear and tear.
LV asked the second agent for their opinion and they agreed with the first agent. As we 
werent party to the discussion between Mr S and the second agent, I cant make any further 
comment. Overall I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to rely on the opinions of both 
agents when deciding not to cover the claimed damage to the worktop and floor. 
In these circumstances, we think its reasonable for the insurer to give the customer an 
opportunity to obtain their own report if they disagree with the insurers findings. LV did this. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs S dont agree they should pay for a further report. But I cant ask 
LV to change its decision without any evidence of similar weight to contradict the findings of 
two independent agents. And I think it was reasonable to place more weight on their 
opinions following their visits than photos Mr and Mrs S has. As Mrs S said, they show how 
far the debris fell, but they wont be enough to contradict the findings of both agents as they 
wont prove the damage was caused by the incident. Ive also taken into account the fact 
that Mr and Mrs S told LV they dont know how the damage happened to the worktop and 
floor as they didnt witness the cupboard falling. But they said they know the damage wasnt 
there before. Mr and Mrs S said they have photos of the kitchen a couple of months before 
the incident and these show the damage wasnt there. But I dont think this is enough to 
conclude that the information LV received from the agents shouldnt be relied on.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive 
seen, I think LV dealt with their claim and complaint reasonably. So Im not asking it to do 
anymore. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman