DRN-3436665
The complaint
Mr I has complained about the total loss settlement he received from Advantage Insurance
Company Limited when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
All reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr I bought a car insurance policy with Advantage. In July 2021 his car was stolen and so he
made a claim. Mr Is car was recovered shortly after but Advantage deemed his car a write
off due to the damage caused.
Advantage discovered that one of the named drivers had an undisclosed speeding
conviction. If Advantage had known about the conviction, this would have increased the
premium Mr I paid for cover. So in line with legislation which covers misrepresentation,
Advantage reduced the settlement amount proportionately in line with the lower premium
amount Mr I paid Advantage.
Mr I complained that on multiple occasions Advantage told him the total loss settlement
would be £4,067. He said he understood this was the amount after it had made an 11%
deduction. But Advantage actually paid a total loss settlement of £3,619.63.
Mr I complained to Advantage. It said it had paid the correct amount. But it apologised for
providing Mr I with incorrect information about the amount in previous calls and paid him £50
compensation for its poor service.
Mr I remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He thought the settlement was too
low and he found similar cars for sale online for more.
Advantages engineer wasnt able to view the mileage on the car on inspection so he based
the valuation assuming mileage of 47,500. This was based on the previous two years MOTs
in 2019 and 2020 (Mr I owned the car during this time) and divided by the number of months
up to July 2021.
Our Investigator thought Advantage hadnt used the correct mileage when deciding a
valuation for Mr Is car. In November 2021 she carried out a HPI check on Mr Is car as it
appeared to have been sold on after it was written off. This check showed the mileage of Mr
Is written off car in October 2021 under its last MOT as 46,499. The Investigator took an
average between that mileage and Mr Is MOT from October 2020 and carried out valuations
against the main motor trade guides. This was 45,000 miles.
The average of the main motor trade guides provided a market value of £4,382.33  before
applying the 11% reduction which the Investigator thought was fair to do. So she
recommended Advantage pay the difference to Mr I with interest.
Advantage didnt agree as it said the Investigators HPI check was carried out several
months after it had settled the claim. It said this information wasnt available to Advantage at
the time and the mileage the engineer used was correct based on previous MOTs.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 March 2022. I thought Advantage hadnt shown that the 
starting point valuation it used of £4,0617 was reasonable. But I thought Advantages 
decision to rely on the average mileage using the previous years MOT record was fair. After 
checking the main motor trade guides I thought Advantage should increase the total loss 
settlement sum by £326.93 with interest. 
Mr I didnt reply to my provisional decision. Advantage accepted my provisional decision. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is on the same lines as my provisional decision  as I 
havent received any new information. 
I think Advantage was entitled to reduce the claim settlement proportionately to reflect the
undisclosed speeding conviction of one of the named drivers. Ive found that Advantage
acted in line with the legislation that covers misrepresentation called the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012.
So the remaining issue for me to decide is whether the total loss settlement Advantage paid
was reached in a fair way.
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation
reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr Is policy with Advantage says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market
value of Mr Is at the time of loss.
We find that generally the more reliable way to reach a fair valuation for standard cars is to
look at the main motor trade guides. They provide valuations based on the same make,
model, age, condition and mileage of a car based on nationwide research giving likely selling
prices.
I dont think Advantages engineer did anything wrong in using mileage of 47,500 when
providing a valuation for Mr Is car. I say this because it is the amount of mileage between
2019 and 2020 MOT records divided by the number of months Mr I had his car up until the
month of loss. In the absence of being able to read the cars mileage at the time, I think this
was a reasonable approach to take.
I cannot rely on any evidence that wasnt available to the business at the time. So Im
disregarding the mileage recorded on a MOT under the car in October 2021. But  having
checked the valuations using the mileage average of 46,499 and the engineers mileage of
47,500 I can see the difference in the valuations is between £8 and £30. So in any event, I
wouldnt consider this an amount sufficient enough to say Advantage had paid an unfair
valuation.
However, the engineers valuation for Mr Is car on the total loss report is £4,281. We askedAdvantage why it used a starting market value of £4,067 rather than the engineers listed
valuation.
Advantage said in response;
I believe you are referring to a note left on the claim (14/07/2021) stating the vehicle
value as £3,955 as given by (name of one of the motor trade guides inserted here).
This figure was not given to the customer and was used as a rough estimate to
update our reserves to have an accurate idea of what we would be paying Mr l.
I dont think Advantage has explained why it used a starting market value which was
different to the engineers valuation. Having checked the main motor trade guides using the
mileage of 47,500 we found that the engineers market value of £4,281 matched two of the
three valuations we obtained. But using all three available valuations, I found the average of
the three guides came to £4,434 for a car similar to Mr Is.
So in the absence of a clear explanation from Advantage, I dont think the starting market
value it relied on of £4,067 was fair. I think a fairer starting market value was £4,434.
Based on this sum, I therefore think a fairer total loss settlement - after deducting 11% - is
£3,946.26. Advantage paid Mr I £3,619.63. This means I think Advantage should pay Mr I
the difference of £326.63.
Advantage said that there was a non-disclosed claim under the policy which could have
resulted in further deductions but it elected not to do this. I dont think its fair or reasonable
for Advantage to now consider any further deductions - as it made the decision to settle the
claim without taking this into account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to increase the total loss settlement it paid Mr I to £3,946.26 and pay the difference 
of £326.93. Advantage should pay interest on the difference from the date of the claim to the 
date it pays at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the
date on which we tell it Mr I accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much its taken off.
It should also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman