DRN-4387352
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F are unhappy with the service provided by UIA (Insurance) Limited when 
dealing with a claim under their home emergency insurance policy. 
Mr F and Mrs F are both parties to this complaint. Mr F has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mr F throughout this final decision. 
What happened
Mr F took out a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by UIA. The policy booklet 
included the following definition:
Home Emergency
A sudden unexpected event which clearly requires immediate remedial action in 
order to:
prevent damage or avoid further damage to the home, and/or
render the home safe or secure, and/or
restore the main services to the home, and/or
alleviate any health risk to you
In December 2022 Mr F contacted UIA as he was not able to turn [his] heating off with the 
thermostat control in the hallway. Mr F was told he wouldnt be covered by the policy as the 
heating could still be turned off manually, and the policy terms for home emergency hadnt 
been met. 
Mr F complained to UIA about their decision not to provide cover. UIAs position remained 
the same. Unhappy with UIAs response, Mr F referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman service for investigation. The investigator found that the home emergency 
terms had been applied reasonably. Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is 
the right outcome.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether UIA have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mr Fs claim.
Mr Fs policy was intended to provide emergency cover. So a claim under this policy would 
result in repairs to prevent an emergency situation from escalating. The main point of dispute 
in this complaint is whether the failure of Mr Fs thermostat is an event covered by the policy.  
    
Although its accepted that the thermostat wasnt working, Mr F was still able to control the 
heating in his home manually. So I cant agree that there was a home emergency in line with 
the policy terms which clearly require[d] immediate remedial action. Mr F feels strongly that 
the thermostat is a vital component in ensuring that [a] boiler is in use only when needed 
and [to] minimise on wastage. Ive carefully considered Mr Fs comments. Having done so, 
Im satisfied UIAs application of the policy terms has in line with what wed expect in the 
circumstances. And so I wont be asking UIA to do anything in settlement of Mr Fs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman