DRN-4116414
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Santander UK Plc has treated him unfairly when providing conflicting 
information about his late mothers mortgage.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr Y and Santander, so Ive not set 
this out in detail below, instead Ive focused on the key points.
Mr Y has another complaint about a number of linked issues with Santander and its 
handling of his late mothers mortgage, but this complaint is focused on advice given around 
and early repayment charge (ERC) and whether this needs to be paid when the mortgage is 
redeemed.
In February 2022, Mr Y was told when speaking with Santander, that it was likely an ERC 
would be applied if it took more than 12 months to sell the property after his late mother 
passed away.
Mr Y said this caused concern as he didnt think an ERC was applicable based on his 
understanding of the mortgage terms. He hadnt factored the sum of this into the financial 
calculations and he was worried about the considerable amount Santander said this was 
likely to be  up to £105,349. 
Santander first looked at Mr Ys concerns in March 2022 and said it had correctly informed 
him that an ERC would be applicable if the property was not sold within 12 months. But it 
said it would consider if this could be waived should the property not be sold by this point. 
Santander apologised for the distress caused when the telephone agent wasnt able to 
answer this question with certainty at the time and it offered to make a payment of £50 to 
compensate for this.
Mr Y continued to question whether the ERC should apply and Santander looked at this 
again.  In July 2022, it explained it had made a mistake and the ERC wouldnt be applicable. 
It apologised for this in its final response dated 22 July 2022 and offered to pay Mr Y £250 
for the distress caused when it initially gave incorrect advice.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ys complaint and agreed Santander had made a mistake. He 
didnt think its offer to compensate for the distress and inconvenience was fair and he asked 
Santander to increase this to £300. Santander accepted this and increased its offer to the 
amount recommended. 
Mr Y didnt accept the outcome. He didnt think the compensation took account of the 
complaint as a whole when looking at the delays in information being provided, the 
negligence of the staff and distress caused as a result. 
Our investigator asked Santander if it would consider increasing the amount offered for the 
distress and inconvenience and it increased this by a further £50 to £350 in total.
Mr Y didnt accept this increased offer. He explained Santander had added a number of 
delays to the process of obtaining the information he needed to move forward with the 
probate on his late mothers estate. He feels this could have stopped the property selling 
sooner and the delay has resulted in Santander continuing to benefit from the daily interest 
adding to the mortgage balance. So it is profiting while he has lost out.
Our investigator said their opinion hadnt changed. They felt the offer of £350 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused was fair. He didnt think there was anything that evidenced a 
financial loss as a result of the misinformation relating to the ERC, so he didnt think it was 
right to make a recommendation in relation to this.
Because Mr Y disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know this isnt 
the outcome Mr Y is hoping for, but Ill explain why Ive decided this.
It isnt disputed that Santander has made a number of errors when handling Mr Ys 
questions about his late mothers estate and the actions and information he needed from 
Santander. Some of these actions are being considered under a separate complaint and I 
think its important that I highlight, the focus of this complaint is the service received in 
relation to the ERC and the information on this.
It is clear Mr Y has had a difficult time with Santander and Im sorry hes had to deal with 
these issues. This has compounded what is understandably a difficult time and made 
dealing with the probate of his late mothers estate more difficult than it might have been. 
When Santander incorrectly informed Mr Y that an ERC was going to be applied, I think it 
added undue distress. Mr Y would have been concerned the figures he had for the value of 
the estate would have been wrong and the potential ERC was significant. So I think its fair 
to say that Santanders actions would have had a negative impact on him and its right it 
makes a payment to compensate him for this.
Mr Y has highlighted that the amount Santander is earning from the mortgage as the 
balance remains outstanding is considerable. So while the house is not sold, he feels it 
continues to benefit from this and he is losing out as a result. He has questioned whether 
having the correct information sooner would have allowed him to market the property 
sooner. He feels this has potentially caused him to lose out as a result of the delay and it 
would be fair to ask Santander to do more with the compensation. 
I understand the concern Mr Y has on this point, but I dont think it would be fair to say 
Santanders actions have caused a delay which has resulted in the house still being unsold. 
To say this, Id need to be convinced that it was more likely than not that Santanders actions 
have resulted in the property not being sold sooner.
There is no guarantee when marketing properties that they will sell in a certain period of time 
and even if Mr Y was able to market the property sooner, there is no way of knowing 
whether a buyer would have been found. With this in mind, it wouldnt be fair to say there is 
a definite link between the information provided by Santander about the ERC and the 
property not having sold already. The interest is being charged inline with the mortgage offer and I dont think Santander has done anything wrong when it has continued to charge this. 
Overall, I think the amount now offered for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Santander when it gave incorrect information about the ERC is fair and inline with what Id 
expect it to pay to compensate for this.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr Y £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused when providing 
wrong information about the ERC on his late mothers mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman