DRN-3204816
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) failed to reinstate 
his direct debit following a payment break. 
What happened
Mr L complained to Tesco Bank after it failed to reinstate his direct debit for his loan 
repayments following a payment break. Mr L says he missed two repayments as a result and 
his credit score was affected  causing him problems obtaining credit elsewhere.
Tesco Bank agreed it had failed to reinstate Mr Ls direct debit. To put things right, Tesco 
Bank paid Mr L £75 compensation and reinstated the direct debit. Mr L remained unhappy 
and asked this service to get involved. Mr L says he is due a significantly higher amount of 
compensation for the stress he experienced and the inconvenience he had to go through. 
Mr L is also unhappy that Tesco Bank didnt listen to all the telephone calls he thinks is 
relevant to his complaint.
One of our investigators concluded that Tesco Bank had put forward a fair resolution to this 
complaint. The investigator pointed out that the additional calls Mr L referred to bear no 
relevance to this complaint. Mr L didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
have a final say on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also think Tesco Bank has fairly resolved this complaint  Ill explain why:
Mr L missed two repayments because Tesco Bank didnt reinstate his direct debit. 
Im pleased to see that, after Mr L got in touch, Tesco Bank reinstated the direct debit 
so it was ready ahead of the next scheduled repayment. Mr L was able to pay the 
balance for the missed repayments using other means.
Mr Ls concerned about the impact to his credit report. Tesco Bank has provided Its 
own records to confirm that adverse information wasnt recorded against Mr Ls name 
for the late payments caused by Tesco Banks error. Im aware Mr L still has 
concerns about other adverse information on his credit file, but Mr Ls repayments 
were only affected by Tesco Banks error for two months. And Tesco Bank has 
proven that it didnt record adverse information during this period. So I wont be 
asking Tesco Bank to do anything more in relation to this.
Mr L claims Tesco Bank acted deliberately when it failed to reinstate his direct debit. I 
havent seen anything that suggests Tesco Bank intentionally avoided reinstating the 
direct debit. So I cant agree with Mr Ls claim.
Mr L wants significantly higher compensation in addition to what Tesco Bank has 
already paid. I recognise Mr L suffered a degree of stress due to Tesco Banks error. 
But I cant fairly conclude that the level of compensation he seeks is a reasonable 
reflection of the degree of stress he suffered. So I wont be asking Tesco Bank to pay 
anything more than the £75 it has already paid. 
Mr L thinks Tesco Bank didnt look into his complaint properly because it didnt 
examine a number of calls that took place around the time. This part of Mr Ls 
complaint seems to relate to Tesco Banks complaint handling. This isnt something 
this service can investigate, given that complaint handling isnt considered a 
regulated activity. So I havent considered this point as part of my investigation. 
Nevertheless, I can see that Tesco Bank later decided to listen to the calls in 
question and confirmed these calls have no relevance to Mr Ls complaint. 
In conclusion, Im of the opinion that Tesco Bank has fairly settled this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman