DRN-3440778
The complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC held her liable for a transaction from her account 
that she says she didnt authorise, which left the account overdrawn. Shed like the 
transaction refunded.
What happened
Miss D holds an account with Lloyds. In April 2021 she made a payment to her mother. Very 
shortly afterwards she received a notification that a new payee had been set up on her 
account. She checked her account and found £500 sent out by a faster payment, which left 
her overdrawn.
She contacted Lloyds to say she hadnt authorised this payment or applied for an overdraft. 
The bank investigated what happened but didnt think they should be held liable. They said 
the payment had been made from Miss Ds phone and had involved a security call to her 
registered number to confirm he transaction. Miss Ds password had been changed right 
before this payment had been made. Miss D was still in possession of her phone. They 
didnt feel there was a reasonable explanation of how someone else could have carried out 
the transaction and told Miss D they wouldnt be refunding it.
Unhappy with this Miss D referred the complaint to our service. She said she was a 
vulnerable individual, who lived in assisted living. She said the transferred money had been 
withdrawn on the other side of the country and had nothing to do with her. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened but didnt feel Lloyds needed to do 
anything further. They were satisfied that Miss Ds mobile was used to make the payment, 
and they couldnt see a point of compromise for someone to gain access to her mobile and 
security details to make the payment. Miss D said she hadnt shared her banking details with 
anyone else. They felt the payment were likely made by Miss D, and on that basis, Lloyds 
didnt need to refund her. 
Miss D disagreed, saying she didnt apply for the overdraft and wasnt even aware she could 
apply for one. She was adamant she didnt make the transaction. Because no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, a bank can hold a consumer liable for transactions from their account that the 
consumer has authorised themselves. So, the key consideration for me here is whether I 
think it more likely than not Miss D either carried out the payment herself or allowed 
someone else to do so. 
Ive reviewed the online banking records for Miss Ds account, and Im satisfied that the 
transaction was made from Miss Ds genuine mobile phone. Up to this point there had only 
been a single device registered. And Miss D regularly accessed her online banking and 
made payments from it that she hasnt disputed. This is confirmed by the recorded device 
IDs. But this isnt enough in itself to show that she authorised the transaction.
Miss D made an undisputed payment to her mother 18 minutes before the disputed 
payment. She also says she carried out the password change  but shes said this was in 
response to the text message about the new payee. But I can see from Lloyds online 
records this was 12 minutes before the disputed payment. So, the password change cant 
have been in response to the fraud. This also tells me that Miss D was in possession of her 
phone very shortly before the disputed payment left her account.
After the password change there is regular usage of the online banking service  mostly to 
delete details of previous payees, but also to apply for the overdraft  before the disputed 
payment. This means there would only have been a very narrow window for someone other 
than Miss D to get her phone and make the payment. She still had the phone when she 
reported the transaction.
For a third party to carry out the transactions, they would have needed to have been able to 
take the phone from her, carry out the transaction including the automated call to confirm it, 
and then return it to her  all without her noticing  in a very short period of time. This 
doesnt seem likely to me.
A third party still would have needed to have known information enough to bypass the 
security of Miss Ds phone and log in to the online banking service. And weve not been 
given a clear indication of how this would have happened. In the initial call to raise the 
dispute, she says she hasnt shared her details with anyone or allowed anyone else to use 
the account; nor allowed anybody else to use her phone. 
Likewise, theres no indication Miss D had accidentally shared her banking details  such as 
through a scam; or being tricked by a fake text or email message. In any case the payment 
was made using her mobile device, so theyd still need access to that to carry it out.
Its difficult to see how someone else other than Miss D could have carried out this 
transaction.
Ive also considered that there was a balance still available from Miss Ds account  slightly 
less than £50. Again, it seems unlikely that having stolen Miss Ds phone and got through 
the security to set up an overdraft, a thief would decide not to take the maximum amount 
available to them.
Having considered everything available there doesnt appear to be a realistic or plausible 
explanation of how the transaction could have happened without Miss D authorising it. On 
that basis Im satisfied Lloyds can hold her liable for the transfer out of the account.
As this left the account overdrawn, I dont consider it unreasonable for Lloyds to ask for 
Miss D to repay it. I know Miss D has said she wasnt aware she could get an overdraft, but 
from the evidence available its more likely than not she applied for it, as the application was 
from her device. The balance left on the account is a debt that was likely agreed to. 
Ive also taken on board that she may have difficulty repaying it  and Im sorry to hear of the 
difficulties she faces. Lloyds should treat her with forbearance and due consideration when 
discussing the debt and agreeing any repayment arrangements.
Overall, I dont find that Lloyds have been unfair or unreasonable in declining Miss Ds claim, 
and asking for the money to be repaid, and they do not need to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman