DRN-1719710
 
The complaint
Mr W says Evergreen Finance London Ltd  trading as MoneyBoat (MoneyBoat) - 
irresponsibly lent to him.                           
Background
This complaint is about five loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr W between December 2016 
and February 2019.  Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 29/12/2016 30/06/2017 6 £250 £77.67
2 06/07/2017 29/12/2017 6 £600 £180.42
3 08/02/2018 31/07/2018 6 £600 £175.00
4 03/08/2018 29/01/2018 6 £600 £181.55
5 01/02/2019 repaid 6 £600 £181.36
 
Mr W says he has repaid the balance outstanding on loan 5. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint and thought the loans from loan 1 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because the information MoneyBoat had gathered about Mr W 
showed he was having problems managing his money because he had other outstanding 
short-term loans when he was given the first loan. 
MoneyBoat disagreed and said it couldnt be expected to read every line of the credit file for 
applications it received. MoneyBoat requested an ombudsmans review of the complaint and 
it was passed to me.
 
 
 
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure  Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Ws 
complaint from loan 1. Ill explain why.
I think MoneyBoat ought to have realised that Mr W wouldnt have been able to make his 
repayments for his loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see MoneyBoat 
did credit checks on Mr W before it lent the first loan to him. And I can see that MoneyBoat 
has provided the reports from the credit checks to us. 
 
 Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Mr W was able to repay any of his loans in a 
sustainable manner.  The credit check reports show that Mr W already had some 
outstanding short-term loans. This information was apparent each time MoneyBoat did a 
credit check. So, it was aware from the information it has provided, that it was likely Mr W 
would be unable to sustainable repay not just loan 1 but all the loans. 
I think this was a clear indication that Mr W was in a debt cycle and relying upon borrowing 
to repay borrowing. So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 5 and MoneyBoat 
should put things right.
Putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 1 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 5 from Mr Ws credit file;
if there remains an outstanding balance on loan 5, MoneyBoat can use any redress 
to offset the outstanding amount. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Ltd should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman