DRN-3022255
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Rathbone Investment Management Limited has offered unfair redress in 
relation to the mis-sale of their whole of life policy. They feel Rathbone should have either 
offered them the cover they had before or refunded all of the premiums they paid in full.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs K met with a Rathbone adviser in 2013 to discuss taking out a whole of life 
policy with a sum assured of £950,000 in order to reduce a possible Inheritance Tax liability. 
However, the policy they eventually took out in July 2014 was an indexed whole of life policy 
with an increasing premium. Mr and Mrs K were the lives assured under the policy and it 
was written in trust. The policy was cancelled in August 2020. 
In 2019, Mr and Mrs K say they became aware that the policy premium wasnt what they 
asked for, after a different Rathbone adviser brought it to their attention. So they complained 
to Rathbone in January 2020. 
In April 2020, Rathbone responded to the complaint. It said it recognised that the adviser 
made an error, and to put matters right it offered to pay Mr and Mrs K the difference in the 
premiums they had paid for the five years they had held the cover, along with £350 
compensation for the length of time it took to resolve the complaint.
Rathbone also contacted the insurer of the policy, who said they had three options  to 
continue the policy on the existing indexation basis, to maintain higher premiums to account 
for the same level of benefit or to continue the policy with the initial premium, but with a 
reduced sum assured (£837,800) because the cost of cover had since increased.  
It did not agree that it should return all of the premiums Mr and Mrs K had paid - they were 
sent annual statements each year explaining what the policy was. Therefore they should 
have contacted Rathbone sooner in the event the policy wasnt what they had expected.       
However, Mr and Mrs K were not happy with Rathbones proposal to put matters right. They 
said it hadnt accounted for the fact the cost of cover had since changed, and they can no 
longer apply for the cover they originally wanted, this was a result of the advisers error. 
They also didnt agree that they should receive a lower level of cover going forwards or pay 
more for the same cover because the adviser made an error in the first instance.  
They therefore pursued a complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She initially said she didnt think the redress offer was fair. She accepted Mr 
and Mrs Ks argument that the annual statements contained promotions and information on 
the first couple of pages, and it wasnt overly clear about the details of the premiums until the 
third page. She could therefore understand why they might not have noticed anything until 
2019. She therefore felt inclined to agree that all the premiums should be returned in full.  
Rathbones said the investigator had incorrectly assessed the redress. It wasnt disputed that 
Mr and Mrs K wanted some kind of life cover, so it cannot be the case that all of the policy 
premiums should be returned  this would be the redress if no life cover policy should ever 
have been sold. In fact, by 2018 their IHT liability had increased by a further £545,000.  
It also disagreed that the insurers documentation was unclear. It was three pages and it 
conceded the vital information wasnt at the front, but the third page only had premium and 
sum assured information on it  this changed each year. Mr and Mrs K would have known 
not to expect this if they thought they had been sold a fixed premium whole of life policy.  
Rathbone felt Mr and Mrs K had benefitted from life cover whilst the policy was in force, and 
this should also be reflected in any proposed redress. Its view was that it should pay redress 
on any premium that exceeded the initial agreed premium when the policy began in 2014.  
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint. She revised her view in light of Rathbones 
further explanation. She now felt it had correctly calculated the redress due to Mr and Mrs K, 
albeit that it needed to assist them with securing cover going forward making up any 
difference in cost  as theyd only cancelled the policy because of Rathbones mistake.    
Rathbone said it wasnt correct that another adviser discovered the indexed premium error  
its adviser had found that out in 2018. He sent Mr and Mrs K a suitability report following a 
review with them and noted the sum assured at that time had increased with indexing to 
£1,043,251. He also identified that their IHT liability had increased and that the policy was 
still suitable for their circumstances if they capped the indexation option at that time, though 
theyd still have a shortfall IHT liability of some £332,000. 
That Mr and Mrs K elected to cancel the policy in 2020 because they no longer felt it suitable 
for their circumstances was a matter for them, but Rathbone considered it was still suitable 
and addressed some of their IHT shortfall. It therefore disagreed it should reconstruct a new 
policy going forwards as the investigator had suggested.  
Mr and Mrs K said it seemed wrong that their current financial situation was used to justify 
an error created in 2014. After consideration they cancelled the policy because they felt it 
was going to cost them more going forward and it wasnt what they agreed to in 2014. 
Our investigator therefore issued a third and final assessment. She said though Rathbone 
had accepted its adviser made a mistake, since both parties had made submissions about 
the actions of 2014 she considered those too. Having looked at the application, she felt both 
parties had some liability for the incorrect information regarding the indexed premium. On 
that basis, she felt Rathbones offer of redress was fair in the circumstances.  
Though they didnt have any further comments to make, Mr and Mrs K asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs K, I do not believe their complaint in respect of the 
redress they feel appropriate should succeed. In the circumstances, I consider Rathbones 
calculation of how to put matters right is correct. Ill explain my reasons for that below.  
The complaint initially brought to this service was one of redress  that was because 
Rathbone had accepted liability for Mr and Mrs Ks policy having an indexed premium, which 
both parties agree was not something they required or wanted.  As the complaint has progressed, there has been a wider consideration about the liability of 
each party for the mistake. But I dont actually consider I need to address that point here  
as Rathbone has calculated redress having accepted that its adviser did something wrong. 
Additional findings apportioning liability arent necessary or relevant to my determination.  
The only remaining point of dispute is how matters ought to be put right because of the error. 
When it was discovered in 2018/19, there was a discussion between the parties about how 
best to deal with the policy premium going forward as the sum assured and premium had 
both increased  for example, by 2018 the monthly premium had risen from the original 
£1,069 per month to £1,293. 
Notwithstanding that Mr and Mrs K had a different IHT liability by this time, the policy 
premium and sum assured had exceeded what they had expected from the outset  and 
Rathbones redress accounts for this. It agrees to refund any premium paid in excess of the 
original agreed monthly amount of £1,069. And by 2020, the premium was £1,427 per 
month. 
To this, Rathbones has calculated interest at a rate of 8% simply from the date each 
premium was paid up until May 2021. This is because it made the revised offer at that time. 
It maintains, however, that its liability should cease as of August 2020 because it was at this 
time that Mr and Mrs K wrote to the insurer and cancelled the cover.  
The policy cannot be reinstated in the same position it was in at the time of cancellation, 
because to do so would require medical underwriting of Mr and Mrs K. And the cost of cover 
isnt the same as it was in 2014. But I dont think Rathbone ought reasonably to be 
responsible for that, or for the premiums going forward beyond the offer its made. That is 
because the cancellation was a matter for Mr and Mrs K. At that time, they were aware that 
three options were open to them in respect of retaining the policy. Whilst I know none of 
these would provide the exact original sum assured, Mr and Mrs K knew by this time that the 
indexation could cease and that their IHT liability had increased notably beyond the policys 
sum assured in any event.  
On that basis, I believe the proposal put forward by Rathbone was fair  and I dont think it 
ought reasonably to be held further accountable for any premium difference for the 
remainder of the whole of life policy, if it were assumed to be put back in place. The 
indexation error had been identified and the position could be revised, even if it couldnt be 
matched exactly to the 2014 values. Mr and Mrs K didnt want to carry on with the policy  
which is entirely a matter of their choosing  but Rathbone has no influence over that. The 
offer it made of compensation to the point of cancellation (and in fact, beyond to May 2021 
which it has agreed to honour) is a fair one.
Putting matters right  the existing offer
Rathbone says it agrees to pay a redress calculation of £9,762.36 representing all of the 
premiums Mr and Mrs K overpaid from July 2014 to August 2020, plus interest at a rate of 
8% from the date each premium was paid until the agreed calculation date of May 2021. 
This gives a total redress payment due to Mr and Mrs K of £11,648.10. Finally, it will pay a 
further £350 for the upset Mr and Mrs K were caused. I consider this fair redress. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. That is because Rathbone has already made a fair and 
reasonable redress offer to Mr and Mrs K in the circumstances of the mistake on their whole 
of life policy indexation option. I am pleased to note Rathbone continues to hold open its 
offer of redress to Mr and Mrs K, and I leave them to accept that offer if they wish to do so.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman