DRN-3772668
The complaint
Mr C and Mr S are unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled their 
claim under a property owners policy following an escape of water.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, and largely not in 
dispute so Ill only summarise them here:
Mr C and Mr S are leaseholders in a block of flats and their apartment was damaged 
following water leaks in neighbouring properties. The damage was reported to Aviva 
in October 2021.
Mr C and Mr S were unhappy with the time taken to progress the claim and complete 
repairs and complained to Aviva.
In its final response dated 27 April 2022 acknowledged there had been a delay in the 
appointment of contractors but said the majority of the delays were due to issues in 
accessing one of the properties. And that it hadnt been able to progress the claim 
until the source of the escape of water had been repaired.
Aviva said it would pay £200 compensation to apologise for the delays it and its 
contractors had caused.
Mr C and Mr S didnt feel £200 sufficiently compensated them for the stress and 
inconvenience and the time spent having to chase Aviva, so they brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt there were avoidable delays, with no significant progress until 
March 2022, and a lack of communication with Mr C and Mr S who had to chase for 
updates. She recommended Aviva pay an additional £200 in recognition of the 
impact of its service failures up to 27 April 2022 when Aviva issued its final response. 
Aviva initially disagreed with our investigators opinion and asked that an ombudsman 
decide the case. Our investigator asked Aviva for some additional information, but 
Aviva was unable to provide this in a timely manner and in view of the time that had 
passed it agreed to pay the additional £200.
Our investigator advised Mr C and Mr S of this change in stance by Aviva and asked 
if they accepted her opinion. Mr C and Mr S didnt respond so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators opinion, and for the same reasons.
In this decision I am only considering events from when the claim was made to the date of 
Avivas final response, so the period from October 2021 to 27 April 2022. Im aware that Mr 
C and Mr S are unhappy with the way the claim has progressed after 27 April 2022 and this 
is being considered under a separate complaint.
Claims following an escape of water inevitably cause a degree of disruption and 
inconvenience, and a claim involving several properties can proceed more slowly than those 
of a single dwelling. However, Im persuaded there were avoidable delays and a lack of 
communication within the timescales Im considering. And these delays led to Mr C and Mr S 
having to chase Aviva more than they shouldve needed to and caused unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience.
Ive considered the degree of additional disruption to Mr C and Mr S and am satisfied that 
£400 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
 
Putting things right
Avia should pay Mr C and Mr S £200 in addition to the £200 it offered in its final response, 
so a total of £400 if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr C and Mr S £200 in 
addition to the £200 it initially offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman