DRN-1662226
The complaint
Mr L complains that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited, trading as Vavista, have 
applied unfair charges to the cancellation of his insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions set out by the investigator for these reasons:
Vavistas terms of business clearly set out the charges that will be applicable if the 
policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling-off period, as well the amount of 
each respective charge that might apply. The terms and conditions were provided to 
Mr L at the point he took out the policy, and I think Vavista have fulfilled their 
obligation to present the charges in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. So I 
think he ought reasonably to have been aware that such charges would apply if the 
policy was cancelled after the 14-day cooling-off period.  
 
Given that Mr L failed to pay his premium when it fell due  and then later failed to 
respond to any of Vavistas requests for payment  I consider the policy was fairly 
cancelled in line with the policy terms and conditions. As such, Im satisfied that the 
contractual cancellation charges have been fairly applied in these circumstances. So 
I do not think it is unreasonable for Vavista to pursue Mr L for this debt.
 
I also note that Vavista have offered Mr L a repayment plan, so he can pay the 
amount outstanding in instalments, which I think is a reasonable offer. So he should 
therefore get in touch with Vavista to discuss this further if he wants to take them up 
on this offer. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ls frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman