DRN-3708139
The complaint
Miss F complains about Sainsbury's Bank Plc.
She says that Sainsburys didnt do enough to protect her from becoming the victim of a 
scam and would like Sainsburys to pay her back the money she has lost as a result of the 
scam.
 
What happened
Miss F was looking for investment opportunities online and came across S. During a phone 
call, Miss F was persuaded to begin investing in social mirror trades and made payments to 
E (which was linked to S) to begin investing.
Sainsburys fraud department blocked the use of Miss Fs credit card  and on speaking with 
her removed the block. Miss F then made four payments using her credit card for a total of 
£1,250 in three £250 payments and one of £500.
Miss F then realised that she had been the victim of a scam and made a complaint to 
Sainsburys.
Sainsburys didnt uphold her complaint, so she brought her complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. Sainsburys 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Miss Fs complaint for materially the same reasons as 
our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Was Miss F the victim of a scam?
Sainsburys has questioned if Miss F was the victim of a scam  and that perhaps she simply 
lost her investments due to her inexperience in this kind of market. It wonders if it is being 
asked to compensate Miss F for a bad bargain. 
But I dont think this is the case here. The Financial Conduct Authority already had a warning 
in place for the business that Miss F contacted  and while it appears that Miss F was the 
one that made contact with the business this doesnt mean that the warning doesnt apply. 
So, Im satisfied that Miss F was the victim of a scam here.
Did Miss F authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss F isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
I dont think its in dispute that Miss F authorised the payments. She spoke with Sainsburys 
when it stopped her using her credit card and confirmed it was her making the payments. I 
understand Miss M had been tricked into instructing Sainsburys to make the payments  but 
while Miss F never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the 
fact she authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Miss Fs payments
After Miss F made her payments, I wouldnt expect Sainsburys to do anything further until it 
was notified of the scam.
They payments were made by credit card  however, she does not enjoy protection under 
the Section 75 Consumer credit Act 1974 for the payments that she made. This is because 
the involvement of a merchant (E) breaks the debtor (Miss F) - creditor (Sainsburys) - 
supplier (scammer) agreement as the 'supplier' in this scenario and according to the 
statement is the provider (E) itself. E is not the scammer complained about here.
Also, I dont think recovery would have been possible via the chargeback scheme. 
Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers (here, 
Sainsburys) and the merchant (here, E). This is because E provided the service requested 
of it.
Should Sainsburys have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Sainsburys reasonably ought to have 
prevented some or all of the payments Miss F made in the first place  therefore preventing 
the loss before it happened.
Miss F authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Sainsburys should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Sainsburys has said the transactions Miss F made were of low value  and the business 
she was making the payments to (E) had no warning in place, and so it does not think it 
reasonable to intervene in payments such as this. It says doing so would not allow it to fulfil 
its obligations of a seamless trade for its customers. But it then goes on to say that as E was 
a higher risk company its likely any transaction made to it would have flagged for additional 
checks which seems to contradict what it said.
I agree the payments Miss F were making neednt have required an intervention from 
Sainsburys - however Sainsburys did intervene. It blocked Miss Fs card when she was 
initially trying to make the payments  and it spoke with her on the phone.
Sainsburys says it blocked Miss Fs card as it hadnt been used in some time  and it 
wanted to make sure the card was in her possession  not because it had concerns about 
the payment itself. However, this again contradicts what it has said about any transactions to 
E being flagged as it was a higher risk company.The fact remains that it did block the payments, and it spoke with Miss F about them. This 
would have been an ideal opportunity to question her about what she was doing  and if, as 
it says, it regarded E as a higher risk company, ask what the payment was for, and the 
surrounding context  and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover 
a potential fraud or scam.
Having listened to the call that took place, Sainsburys did not do so  it only asked if Miss F 
had made the attempted payments, and then removed the block from her card which 
enabled her to complete the transactions.
Had Sainsburys voiced concerns and questioned Miss F appropriately, then I think it would 
have unravelled the scam, and stopped the loss from the first payment Miss F made.
Should Miss F bear some responsibility for the loss?
Sainsburys says Miss F had previously lost money on the same platform  so she should 
have been aware of the high level of risk that could be involved and it fails to see why she 
was investing again having lost money before. It also says that a warning would likely not 
have stopped Miss F from continuing with the payments.
But Miss F believed that her previous losses were as a result of poor performance of an 
investment when she made the payments complained about here  not that she had been 
scammed. Sainsburys were the experts here  and had more knowledge on the intricacies 
of these types of scams. And as it never provided Miss F with a warning anyway, I fail to see 
how it can conclude that she would have likely ignored it.  
It follows that I am satisfied no deduction for contributory negligence should be made in this 
case.
Putting things right
Sainsburys should refund the payments Miss F made to a total of £1,250.
It should also rework Miss Fs credit card account to remove any additional interest or 
charges caused by these payments.
If at any point, the rework results in a credit balance, Sainsburys should also add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of each payment to settlement (less any tax lawfully 
deductible).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sainsbury's Bank Plc should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman