DRN-4330616
The complaint
Ms J and Mr J complain that they got poor service and less favourable treatment 
from esure Insurance Limited when they claimed on their motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms J made the claim when she had an accident in 2022 that caused minor damage 
to her car. When it went in for repair, she expected a wheelchair-accessible 
replacement vehicle to be provided, as it was needed to transport her disabled 
young son. Ms J says when she bought the policy she was told one would be 
provided, and that shed paid extra for a hire car similar to her own modified vehicle.
 
Initially, Ms J accepted a standard courtesy car from esures approved repairer, on 
the basis that it knew she needed her car back within a five-day period, as it had 
promised. But the car wasnt returned for seven days, so her son missed a hospital 
appointment. And there was still a problem with the cars sliding door. 
The garage said it would collect the car to carry out rectification, but on the due date 
(13 December 2022) it said it would instruct a mobile repairer to do the repairs at Mr 
J and Ms Js home. After waiting for a week without any progress, Ms J complained 
to the garage, and it arranged to collect the car on 9 January 2023. The car was 
returned five days after that, but the garage didnt arrange for a suitable replacement 
vehicle during that time. And the cars sliding door problem still wasnt resolved. 
The garage then said the car should go to a dealership garage, but before that was 
arranged, on 1 February 2023 the sliding door opened whilst Ms J was driving. She 
said she wouldnt drive the car again until the door was properly repaired and that in 
the meantime, she and Mr J needed a wheelchair-accessible vehicle. esures garage 
collected the car a few days later and took it to a dealership garage two days after 
that. A suitable replacement vehicle was provided after a further week and the 
dealership garage completed the repairs.  
Ms J complained to esure about its garages poor service as well as about the 
accessibility issue, and she said repairing the minor damage to the car had taken far 
too long. esure agreed that the claim could have been handled better and offered 
£150 compensation. It said Mr J and Ms J were only entitled to a standard courtesy 
car, but that it was happy to pay for a suitable modified vehicle if one was available. 
esure later increased the compensation to £300. Ms J told us she didnt think esure 
had considered the fact that she and Mr J had been treated less favourably by 
association, given their sons disability. She didnt think it had understood the impact 
on them of everything that had happened. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr J and Ms Js complaint. She accepted that 
although theyd paid extra for a wheelchair-accessible hire car, that cover only 
applied should their car be written-off or stolen. But she thought esure had provided 
poor service during the claims process and hadnt noted the full impact of that on 
them and their disabled son. So she thought it should increase the compensation by 
a further £200. As esure disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Equality Act 2010 (the Act) so Ive taken it into 
account. We cant say whether the Act has been breached, as thats the role of a 
court. My decision is based on what I think is fair and reasonable, taking into account 
the law and all the available evidence. 
Under the policy, there was no entitlement to a like for like vehicle whilst Mr J and Ms 
Js car was being repaired. But I have no reason to doubt that when Ms J bought the 
policy, esure told her shed get a suitable vehicle during repairs. That was very 
important to the family, and esure knew it was insuring a car that had been adapted 
to allow wheelchair access. I think it had a duty to plan ahead and to make 
reasonable adjustments. I think that would have been a fair and reasonable way for 
esure and its garage to have acted, but in the end a suitable vehicle was only 
provided to cover part of the third repair attempt.   
esure was responsible for its garages actions, and I think it should have made the  
garage aware from the outset of Mr J and Ms Js familys situation. It seems that 
didnt happen  or that the garage ignored esures instructions. The car wasnt 
booked in for repairs for over a month after the accident, so I think the garage had 
ample time to arrange for a suitable vehicle to be available. As it didnt, Ms J had a 
standard courtesy car, but she made it clear that it was vital to her sons welfare to 
have her car back by the fifth day of the repairs. I think it was very poor service for 
the garage not to reply  to her email, not to return the car as soon as it was ready 
(which was before that deadline) and not to make any reasonable adjustments. 
When the car had to go to esures garage for the second time, Mr J and Ms J were 
entitled to expect prompt and efficient service. I think it was even more important for 
an accessible vehicle to be provided on that occasion, as they were being 
inconvenienced purely because of the garages previous poor repairs. The garage 
had ample notice again  it knew rectification was needed by late November 2022, 
and the car didnt go back to it until 9 January 2023. I cant see that it tried to make 
reasonable adjustments, nor did it consider the impact of its actions on a vulnerable 
family. In fact, Ms J says it was openly unsympathetic to their situation.
As the sliding door malfunctioned after the second repair attempt, I think it was 
reasonable for Ms J to consider it to be unsafe to drive. I think she was entitled to 
expect a suitable replacement vehicle to be provided within a couple of days at the 
most. But there was a delay in esures garage collecting the car and a further delay 
before it was taken to the dealership garage. By the time an accessible vehicle was provided, I think the family had been inconvenienced significantly. And over four 
months elapsed before the minor repairs were fully completed.
I dont think esure appreciated the full extent of the poor service from it and from the  
garage, or the impact of that on Mr J, Ms J and their son. Every day on which they 
were without a suitable vehicle, their son couldnt travel at all. I dont think esure 
understood how hard that was for the family. 
Mr J and Ms J were very upset and disappointed by the lack of contact from esure 
and its garage, the failures to respond to their queries and the apparent lack of 
concern overall for their familys situation. And each time the repairs had to be 
rectified, Mr J and Ms J faced the huge anxiety of not knowing whether theyd get 
suitable transport and by having to cope when they didnt. Ms J told us that the poor 
contact from esure and its garage meant she was exhausted by having to chase 
them and deal with hire firms, over a protracted period. I think most of the distress 
and inconvenience caused by that was avoidable. 
I think £300 would be an adequate sum to compensate an average consumer for the 
general poor service and delays that occurred. But I agree with Mr J and Ms J that 
they faced more than just poor service. Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that 
esure and its garage took sufficient steps to try to make reasonable adjustments 
most of the time, despite the impact on Mr J and Ms Js son (and on them, by 
association) due to his disability and his additional needs. So I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for esure to pay more compensation. In my opinion, £500 in total for 
distress and inconvenience would provide a reasonable outcome for Mr J and Ms J.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr J 
and Ms J £500 in total for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman