DRN-4154480
The complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed his accounts.
What happened
Between 24 November and 6 December 2022, Nationwide had cause to record three verbal 
and aggressive behaviour reports concerning Mr Es contact with its consultants. In 
particular during a call to its Contact Centre, it said that he used inappropriate language and 
called its consultant offensive names. It warned that this type of behaviour, if continued, 
could ultimately result in the closure of his accounts. 
Mr E raised six complaints with Nationwide over the period 6 December 2022 to 
7 March 2023. On the latter date it wrote to him to say that it was closing his accounts. It 
said that on review of his accounts it took the view that Mr E wasn't happy banking with 
Nationwide and that the relationship between them had broken down. It also took account of 
the fact that Mr E had three accounts with Nationwide, none of which he used. It also 
referred to his unacceptable behaviour in phone calls. It gave him two months notice of its 
intention to close the accounts.
Mr E agreed that the relationship had broken down, however he didn't think it fair for 
Nationwide to close his accounts. This was because if Nationwide decided to demutualise 
anytime in the future, his accounts, because of when they were opened, would entitle him to 
shares. So he would lose the benefit of those shares if his accounts were closed. He 
proposed that he would accept the closure of the accounts if Nationwide would pay him 
£500.
Nationwide confirmed that it had no present intention to demutualise but asserted that it had 
the right to close his accounts. It declined to pay him compensation.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that we could not take 
account of any possible future loss. But that Nationwide was entitled to close the accounts 
according to the terms and conditions of those accounts, as long as it gave reasonable 
notice.
Mr E did not agree and pointed out that such a decision would give Nationwide the right to 
close all accounts with it that held the right to shares. He offered as a compromise to accept 
a document from Nationwide stating that if it demutualised at any time in the future it would 
issue shares to him based on the principle that he held a qualifying account.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator has pointed out, the Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative 
dispute resolution service. Our function is to resolve complaints informally. The decision that 
I make, whilst taking any relevant law into account, is ultimately based on what in my opinion 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. My consideration of Mr Es 
complaint concerns the particular circumstances of his complaint. It is not intended to take 
account of how Nationwide might close any other accounts.
Under the terms and conditions of the accounts Mr E held with Nationwide, it was entitled to 
close the accounts on giving 60 days notice. It gave Mr E that notice, so I can't say that it 
acted unfairly in processing the closure. Nationwide didn't have to give Mr E reasons for 
closing the account but it has done in this case. The reasons that it gave were:
Its clear he was unhappy with many elements of the service its able to provide.
Its clear the relationship had broken down irretrievably and therefore it felt it was not the 
right banking provider for him.
Furthermore, it had previously warned him about his behaviour on telephone calls with it. 
Despite this warning he had continued to show unacceptable behaviour with the 
language he used. 
He didnt use the accounts he had with Nationwide. 
I understand Mr E also accepts that the relationship had broken down. The only reason he 
wishes to keep the accounts is to maintain a right, if Nationwide decides to demutualise at 
anytime in the future to receive shares.
I think Nationwide acted appropriately in making the decision to close Mr Es accounts. It has 
confirmed that it has no present intention to demutualise, so I don't think that can be taken 
into account as a possible reason for closing the account. I also don't think it would be 
appropriate to say that Nationwide should Mr E immune from having his accounts closed just 
because they might possibly be entitled to a benefit sometime in the future. Mr E is of course 
entitled to reject my decision should he wish to issue legal proceedings against Nationwide.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman