DRN-4210789
The complaint
Miss G complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) irresponsibly approved a 
hire purchase agreement with her that she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In August 2022 Miss G acquired a used car. She paid £99 to take possession of the car, and 
set up a hire purchase agreement with Startline to cover the remaining £6,900 cost. But 
Miss G says she realised she couldnt afford the car the following day. So she tried to return 
it and cancel the finance agreement. 
The agreement required Miss G to make 59 monthly payments of £176 followed by a final 
payment of £186. The total amount payable for the car and finance was £10,680. 
The company that sold the car appear to have refused its return. And to cancel her 
agreement with Startline, it seem Miss G would have had to find money from somewhere 
else to pay for the car. She didnt have the money to do that, so the agreement continued. 
In response to Miss Gs complaint about the affordability of the agreement, Startline said 
theyd carried out several checks to ensure she could afford it. They listed the details they 
had from Miss G  that she was unemployed, had two dependants, and an income of £1,628 
per month. They noted some of her historic credit use had issues, but noted these had 
improved more recently. They felt the agreement had been affordable. 
Miss G wasnt satisfied with this response, so she came to us. One of our investigators felt 
Startline hadnt completed a reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessment. But 
she felt that if they had, theyd still have said Miss G could afford this credit agreement. 
Startline didnt respond. But Miss G disagreed with our investigators view, particularly 
around her income and expenditure. She felt money she received from benefits shouldnt be 
considered as income, and listed some of the debts she was repaying at the time. 
With no agreement to resolve this complaint, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain below why Ive decided Startline dont need to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. That means Im not upholding it, even though Ive found Startline should have 
done more to check Miss G could afford to repay the money she borrowed. 
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant 
here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like Startline to 
complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to 
lend someone money. 
Im going to consider these rules in the following stages:
1. Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss G would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
a. If they did, was their decision to then lend to Miss G fair?
b. If they didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Miss G could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss G 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances. 
Here, the borrowing was to last for a long time  five years. The longer span brought with it 
more opportunity for Miss Gs circumstances to change, affecting her ability to keep making 
the payments needed. So Id expect to see Startline make a thorough check of her 
circumstances before offering to lend to her.
In their response to this complaint, Startline have referred to some of the details Id expect 
them to have looked at: Miss Gs income and some of her history using credit, including 
some of the times shed had problems repaying what shed borrowed. 
But theyve missed some of the details Id expect them to have looked at too. Startline 
mentioned Miss Gs income, but also noted that she was unemployed. They should be able 
to show us what they did to understand the source of Miss Gs income, and how sustainable 
that would be for the next five years. 
Startline havent sent us the evidence to show what checks they carried out. The rules in 
CONC  specifically CONC 5.2A.33(5)  say they should keep a record that demonstrates 
their assessment was completed to a reasonable standard. 
So for the first stage of my decision, I find Startline didnt complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks in the circumstances of this case. I find they should have asked Miss G 
for more information about the source of her income and how likely this was to continue 
unchanged.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss G could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
I cant be certain what questions Startline would have asked Miss G, or what evidence theyd 
have asked her to provide. But Ive seen some bank statements that show Miss Gs income 
and her spending around the time she took out this loan. I view the information these 
statements give me as indicative of what Startline would have found if theyd completed a 
reasonable check. 
Miss Gs referred to her income coming from benefits, and this being a reason not to consider it in a creditworthiness assessment. I dont agree with that position. I can 
appreciate certain tax calculations dont factor in certain benefits when calculating income. 
But its still money Miss G received to spend as she chose on her various day-to-day 
expenses, including transportation and getting around. I find itd be reasonable to consider 
the benefits she received as income for the purposes of her creditworthiness assessment.
The bank statements Ive seen show some of the benefits Miss G received were one-off 
payments. Taking these away, the average Miss G received over the three months prior to 
taking Startlines finance was £1,680 per month. So Startline appear to have based their 
decision on a reasonable figure for Miss Gs income. 
Some of the benefits related to Miss G having young children. As such, those could be 
expected not to change too much over the five years of the agreement. Others related to 
Miss G being unemployed. This had potential to change, but in a way that would be likely to 
replace one source of income for another. So Startline could have reasonably regarded 
Miss Gs income as reliable in their creditworthiness assessment. 
A proportionate check would have then looked at Miss Gs fixed living costs. I understand 
her residential rent wasnt paid from the income Ive seen on her bank statements, so I dont 
need to factor that in to the £1,680 per month. Miss Gs provided a list of her monthly gas, 
water, electricity and food costs. The numbers shes provided for these total about £650 per 
month. 
Miss Gs also listed a credit card and some other fixed repayment commitments shes got. 
These total about another £100 per month.
I can appreciate Miss Gs statements show she had an overdraft. But I can also see that this 
was sustained by Miss G transferring most of the money she received to another account in 
her name. Had she not done that, her income looks like it should have been able to reduce 
her overdraft borrowing.
Miss Gs not shown us the details of her other account, so I cant see why she was putting 
her money there instead of paying off more of her overdraft. 
But Miss Gs list of living expenses looks to cover all of the essentials Id expect Startline to 
have considered when assessing Miss Gs ability to make the payments needed for this 
agreement. After those are accounted for, the rest of Miss Gs income  which I make to be 
about £900  appears not to be committed to fixed costs. 
With that information, I find Startline could reasonably have concluded Miss G had income 
available to allow her to afford the £176 per month needed for this agreement. 
Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The agreement document Ive seen has set out the terms of the finance Startline gave to 
Miss G. It appears the finance has been set up in line with those terms. Thats consistent 
with Startline doing what the agreement said they would do, and so treating Miss G fairly. 
I can see Miss Gs said about Startline not seeking a proof of address or proof of income 
from her before the agreement was made. But even if thats the case, I dont feel that alone 
renders the agreement unfair. Those sorts of proof would have confirmed Miss Gs details 
were as Startline believed. 
Similarly, Miss Gs commented about the car sale being irreversible even before the money 
had been transferred from Startline to the seller. That too doesnt make the agreement unreasonable. Miss G had signed to purchase the car, paid a deposit, and taken the car 
away. I dont feel it was for Startline to explain that those actions confirmed the sale.
Overall I find no further action is needed to put Miss G in the position she would have been 
in, if not for Startlines failure to complete a reasonable and proportionate assessment here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman