DRN-4074298
The complaint
Mr T complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refuse to refund him around £7,000 
of transactions made from his account which he didnt authorise. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to Halifax in most of my decision. 
What happened
Mr T says money has been stolen from his bank account through a sophisticated, organised 
and complex campaign from at least two organisations who operate on a membership basis. 
He adds that affiliated individuals, some working with other well-known organisations and 
businesses have colluded to steal money from his account through complex and difficult to 
trace methods.  
Mr T complained to Halifax about this and asked for a refund of the funds. Halifax didnt 
uphold his complaint, so he referred it to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it, 
and in summary they found: 
- Halifax has shown it asked Mr T three times in October 2022, and in its final 
response letter, for details of the fraudulent transactions hes disputing 
- As per the Payment Service Regulations 2017, and Halifaxs Terms and conditions, it 
can only investigate payments raised to it within 13 months
Mr T did not agree with what our Investigator said. In summary some of the key points hes 
made in response are: 
- He cannot find the transactions because the organisation defrauding him have used 
internet devices to manipulate the cost of his bills and are well capable of covering 
their tracks 
- He has provided evidence of filing details of this conspiracy with highly placed public 
and investigative bodies 
As Mr T didnt agree with what our Investigator said, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know Mr T feels strongly about 
his complaint, so Ill explain why.
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr T liable for any disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself. 
The regulations relevant to this case - the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) - broadly 
speaking say that to determine if a disputed payment has been authorised, the bank would 
need to investigate if theyve been authenticated, and if the consumer has consented to 
them. 
So for Halifax to fairly look into the fraudulent activity Mr T says hes been the victim of, it 
would need to know what transactions it needs to investigate. That is effectively what the 
PSRs say it needs to do. Also from a fair and reasonable point, I dont think Halifax has 
done anything wrong by saying it isnt upholding Mr Ts complaint given he isnt able to 
identify the fraudulent transactions. 
I note Mr T has said these organisations, and affiliated individuals, have manipulated his bills 
so that hes paid more for any services rendered to him. If thats the case, he may want to 
take that up with the bill providers. 
The PSRs also set a time limit for claims of no less than 13 months from when the 
transactions were made. Given Mr T says the fraud took place over many years, if he is able 
to identify any transactions, its possible that Halifax will say they are outside of this time limit. 
So in conclusion I dont uphold this complaint because there isnt enough evidence to show 
what transactions Mr T is disputing, and for me to then investigate whether he authorised 
them. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.  
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman