DRN-2487502
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt allow him to open a new UK savings 
account as he wasnt a UK resident. Mr K s also unhappy at HSBCs failure to provide him 
with a transcript of a conversation he had with HSBC about this.
What happened
Mr K has held a current account with HSBC for many years dating back to when he lived in 
the UK. However, hes been living abroad for some time now and when he applied to HSBC 
in 2019 to open a new savings account, it declined on the basis that he was no longer a UK 
resident. Mr K feels HSBCs approach is unfair and discriminates against people living in the 
EU and against expatriates.
Mr K says he spoke to HSBNC about this over a live chat message board but although hes 
asked for a transcript of this call several times, HSBC has failed to provide it.
HSBC didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said the policy of the HSBC group was not 
to provide new products or accounts to non-UK citizens as to do so may lead to problems 
arising out of the cross-border regulations. For that reason, although it would continue to 
service accounts already opened by non-UK residents, it wasnt able to offer new accounts 
to overseas residents.
With regard to the live chat, it said it was willing to provide a copy of the transcript if Mr K 
could confirm the correct username used as well as the date and approximate time of the 
chat. This was to ensure that the transcript was being provided to the correct customer and 
was part of its security measures.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was HSBCs policy not to offer new 
accounts to non-UK residents to meet the requirements of the cross-border regulations. This 
was a commercial decision that HSBC was entitled to make and we couldnt interfere with 
that. However, as this policy applied to all non-UK residents, and not just ex-patriates, he 
couldnt agree it was discriminatory.
He understood Mr K was unhappy that HSBC hadnt provided him with a transcript of the live 
chat but he couldnt agree HSBC had acted unfairly. HSBC hadnt refused to provide a 
transcript but had explained that, in order to do so, it would need Mr K to confirm his 
username and the date of the call. He felt this was reasonable and that if Mr K wanted a 
copy, hed need to contact HSBC and provide the information.
Mr K disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary he 
said:
HSBCs decision was done for financial gain as there was no legal reason why it 
couldnt offer these products to overseas customers. He noted that other UK banks 
were able to offer new products and considered HSBCs policy was discriminatory 
against British ex patriates, who were not easily able to make alternative banking 
arrangements. If HSBC couldnt offer interest on savings held by non-UK citizens, it 
should also refuse to accept deposits from them as well.
hed asked for the transcript of the live chat several times but didnt have a copy of 
these requests as they were done via secure messaging and he understood the 
records/ messages sent over an eighteen month period had been erased. He didnt 
accept HSBCs explanation as to why it needed the details of the username and time 
and considered this was an excuse not to provide it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres no evidence on any particular point or the evidence available is unclear or 
disputed as it is here on some points, Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
in other words, whats more likely than not to have happened taking into account the 
circumstances of the case.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can see how strongly Mr K feels about HSBCs decision not to allow him to open a savings 
account on the basis that hes not currently a UK resident.  Mr Ks been a customer of HSBC 
for many years and I appreciate how frustrating hes found HSBCs decision.
HSBCs policy on non-UK account holders is that it wont offer new accounts or products 
because of potential problems that might arise as a result of the cross-border regulations. 
For that reason, while it will continue to service the accounts that non-UK residents have 
already opened, it wont agree to open new ones.
I know Mr K feels this is unfair and hes pointed out that other UK banks dont have this 
limitation. That may be the case but it doesnt mean HSBC is doing anything wrong by taking 
a different approach. HSBC, like all banks, is entitled to decide how it manages its 
operations and the services it offers. Thats a commercial decision for the bank thats outside 
the scope of this service. For that reason, I cant tell HSBC how to manage its business or 
ask it to change its policies. Im satisfied however that HSBCs decision was in line with its 
policy on new products and accounts and on that basis, I cant say its decision was wrong.
And because this policy applies to all non-UK residents, regardless of nationality, I cant 
agree with Mr K that its discriminatory.The second part of this complaint relates to the live chat Mr K had with HSBC on 17 
October. Ive seen Mr K says hes asked HSBC several times for a copy of the transcript but 
nothings been provided. He considers HSBC should be able to find this and feels its being 
obstructive.
As part of my investigation, Ive looked at the system notes that show the requests made by 
Mr K and the responses from HSBC. While the messages show the date of the call-in 
question, they dont show the customers username or the time of the call. I appreciate Mr K 
feels HSBC should be able to obtain this information from its system without his having to 
provide it. But even if it could, thats not the only reason it asks for these details. Its also part 
of its security measures to ensure that the correct call is located for that specific customer 
and that no unauthorised copies are provided. I think thats reasonable and if Mr K is willing 
to provide these details to HSBC, it has confirmed it will provide him with a copy of the 
transcript he requires. 
I understand that this isnt the decision Mr K was hoping for but, for the reasons set out 
above, I cant agree that HSBC has acted unfairly in this case and I wont, therefore, be 
asking it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman