DRN-1883467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited told them the premiums on 
their life cover would stay the same. But in May 2019 they were told the premiums needed to 
increase for the level of cover to be maintained. Mr and Mrs N want the original monthly 
premium of £41.06 to be restored. They also want Aviva to compensate them for the 
inconvenience caused in having to pursue this complaint, in particular the handling of an 
information request they made to Aviva under the Data Protection Act (DPA).
What happened
After speaking to an advisor from an insurance company (now Aviva), Mr and Mrs N took out 
a reviewable whole of life policy in 1993. The policy provided cover of £500,000 with the 
monthly premium of £41.06. In May 2019 Aviva reviewed Mr and Mrs N's policy and said the 
monthly premium needed to increase to £96.65 for the £500,000 cover to be guaranteed 
until May 2020. A review in May 2020 has resulted in a further premium increase to £273.61 
a month.
Aviva said Mr and Mrs Ns policy was reviewed in line with the terms and conditions of their 
policy. It offered Mr and Mrs N £250 for its poor handling of the information request.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ns complaint but didnt uphold it. He said 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ns policy made it clear there would be reviews after 
10 years which could result in increased premiums to maintain the amount of life cover. Our 
investigator also felt the £250 offered by Aviva for the poor handling of the information 
request was fair.
Mr and Mrs N were very unhappy with the investigators opinion, and so their case has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. Ive been communicating with Mr and Mrs Ns 
representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs N throughout.
Mr and Mrs N said our investigator hadnt considered what happened when the policy was 
sold. They said the advisor from Aviva didnt tell them premiums could increase and they 
referred to the policy schedule which under the contributions section said £41.06 monthly 
from 27.05.1993 until death of survivor insured. Mr and Mrs N said it was unfair to rely on 
terms and conditions, which the advisor didnt discuss with them at the time, which they said 
was evidenced by the Fact Find and other point of sale documentation. Because of this, 
Mr and Mrs N thought their policy had been mis-sold. Because they said their decision to 
take out the policy was based on their understanding the premiums would remain the same.
Mr and Mrs N added there had been no review of their policy for more than 20 years, 
contrary to the terms and conditions. And this reinforced their understanding that the 
premiums would remain unchanged. They maintained the premiums should be reduced to 
the agreed £41.06 a month with a sum assured of £500,000 in line with the policy schedule.
I asked Aviva for its comments on the specific points raised by Mr and Mrs N. It provided me 
with a letter it sent in October 2019 which addressed their complaint about the increase in 
premiums. Aviva said Mr and Mrs N were provided with personal illustrations and the 
product technical booklet  all of which explained the death benefit was guaranteed for 10 
years, after which there would be a review and premiums could increase.
I also asked about the reviews of Mr and Mrs Ns policy. Aviva said there had been a 
mistake which meant reviews werent carried out when they shouldve been. It provided me 
with a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs N in June 2016 which explained this mistake and corrected 
the fund value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs N. 
But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, including further information from Aviva and Mr and 
Mrs N about the sale of the policy back in 1993. Ive also shared my initial thoughts on this 
case with Mr and Mrs Ns representative and have carefully considered her comments 
before reaching my final decision. Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If 
I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Sale of policy
Firstly, while I dont dispute Mr and Mrs Ns recollection of what they discussed with the 
advisor in 1993, we dont know exactly what was said. So, I must decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, from the available evidence, what is more likely than not to have happened 
during the sale of the policy. And whether or not Mr and Mrs N were reasonably made aware 
 through discussion with the advisor or in the relevant paperwork - that the policy was 
reviewable, and premiums could increase.
Mr and Mrs N have maintained throughout that at no time did the advisor tell them in person, 
or in writing, that their policy would be reviewed, and premiums could increase. Nor were 
they explicitly told by the advisor that they needed to read the policys terms and conditions. 
And because Aviva cant provide evidence the advisor fully explained the terms of the policy 
to them, they believe the policy was mis-sold to them.
I can appreciate the point Mr and Mrs N are making. However, I cant see any evidence on 
file to show the advisor misinformed them. I accept theres no reference in the Fact Find 
document to the policy being reviewed or that Mr and Mrs N should read the terms and 
conditions of the policy. But I dont see that as unusual in a document of this type. Its 
purpose is to help inform what type of policy is best for the clients. Not to highlight the 
specific terms and conditions of the policy being recommended. 
But I can see from the illustration documents provided to Mr and Mrs N at the time of the 
sale in 1993 that it says:
The Guaranteed Death Benefit shown is guaranteed for 10 years. At the end of this 
period there will be a Plan Review at which time contributions may increase if this 
level of cover is to be continued. 
The illustration also says:THIS ILLUSTRATION MUST BE READ TOGETHER WITH OUR SEPARATE 
INVESTMENT AND LIFE PLAN TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION  MOB  561.
The relevant sections of the technical specification document say:
Maximum Cover
This amount is the maximum level of Guaranteed Death Benefit which can be 
maintained for 10 years, regardless of investment performance. However, it will 
usually be necessary to increase contributions after the initial 10 year period, if this 
level of Guaranteed Death Benefit is to continue.
Reviews
Reviews will take place on the 10th anniversary of the Plan and every 5 years 
thereafter up to age 70. Over age 70 second and subsequent reviews will take place 
yearly. If at review the Guaranteed Death Benefit cannot be maintained to the 
following review, it will be reduced or the contributions increased, or both.
Mr and Mrs N wanted evidence from Aviva that they were told about the terms and 
conditions of their policy by the advisor at the point of sale. Avivas told me that letters of 
suitability confirming discussions and recommendations of life insurance products werent 
regulatory until 1995. Nor was it a requirement for customers to confirm receipt of policy 
documentation. This might be different now, but I must look at the rules in place at the time 
the policy was sold. And whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Ns point here, I dont think this 
detracts from the fact that the policy documentation was clear about the policy being 
reviewed, and Aviva did advise Mr and Mrs N to read it.
So, even in the absence of evidence to show exactly what was discussed between Mr and 
Mrs N and the advisor about the nature of the policy, I think the evidence we do have shows 
Mr and Mrs N were reasonably made aware that the policy would be reviewed, and 
premiums could increase.
Mr and Mrs N asked for my comments on whether the increase in premiums from £41.06 to 
£273.61 is fair and reasonable. 
Aviva has explained that the cost of providing life cover increases when the life assured gets 
older. From experience, this can increase significantly when a life assured reaches the age 
of 70. The premiums buy units in an investment fund with the aim of producing enough 
growth to cover the cost of the life cover. If the premiums are sufficient to buy enough units 
to cover the cost of the life cover, then they wont change. But if not, as in Mr and Mrs Ns 
case, the premiums must increase, or the amount of life cover will be reduced.
I can see from the information provided by Aviva that the cost or providing life cover for 
Mr and Mrs N changed between 2018 and 2020. This will be because of Mr and Mrs Ns 
ages but will also take account of investment performance. I appreciate the increase is 
significant here, but Ive seen nothing to suggest Avivas explanation for that is 
unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs N also wanted to know how its fair that such significant increases arent 
highlighted in the point of sale documents. As Ive said above, I think Mr and Mrs N were 
made aware at the point of sale that the policy would be reviewed, and the premiums could 
increase. As we can see, the amount of that increase would depend on several factors in 
play at the time of the review. So, it wouldnt be possible for Aviva to predict the type of 
increase seen here at the point the policy was sold. I therefore remain of the view that Aviva did enough by making Mr and Mrs N aware that their policy would be reviewed, and the 
premiums could increase. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs N are now unable to meet the 
monthly premiums. But that doesnt prove the policy was mis-sold in 1993. 
I have considered whether information provided by Aviva misled Mr and Mrs N into thinking 
the premiums would remain unchanged. The couple have specifically referred to the policy 
schedule which says:
£41.06 monthly from 27.05.1993 until death of survivor insured.
Theyve also provided me with a letter from 28 May 1993 which again refers to the £41.06 
premium being in place throughout the life of the policy. Ive asked Aviva for its comments on 
this. Its told me that the wording on the policy schedule is standard wording. It added that 
its seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs N were told the premiums wouldnt change.
Taking account all the points made here, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong. I can 
understand how by not knowing about the policy reviews, Mr and Mrs N could take the 
wording on the policy schedule, and in the 28 May 1993 letter, to reinforce their 
understanding that the premiums would remain unchanged. And that couldve been the case 
depending on the outcome of the reviews  as in the 2018 review. But at the time the policy 
was set up the premiums were £41.06 a month  and so the policy schedule is correct. And 
as Ive discussed above, I think Aviva made it clear in the supporting documentation that 
premiums could go up. So, I cant say it misled Mr and Mrs N or provided them with incorrect 
information.
Furthermore, the right to change your mind letter also sent on 28 May 1993 says;
Do you, for example;
Understand how much you will have to pay now and in the future?  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs N thought theyd understood how much they would pay. But 
Aviva has specifically asked them to check that understanding, and by referencing the 
future indicates to me that the amount Mr and Mrs N were paying for their policy might 
change.
So, having considered all the information provided, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt acted unfairly 
by increasing the premiums and has done so in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and 
Mrs Ns policy. And so, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ns policy wasnt mis-sold to them.
Reviews
Mr and Mrs N have also said no review took place after 10 years, in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. They say this reinforced their belief the premiums wouldnt change. Its 
evident Aviva did make a mistake here and that reviews of Mr and Mrs Ns policy didnt take 
place as they shouldve done. But I can see from the letter sent to Mr and Mr N in 2016 that 
this has been corrected. I can understand how the policy not being reviewed for some time 
meant Mr and Mrs N werent alerted sooner to the fact the policy was reviewable. But I dont 
think that detracts from the fact Aviva did make this clear to them at the time the policy was 
sold. 
Reviews now take place annually, given Mr and Mrs Ns ages. This is in line with the policy 
terms and conditions Ive referenced above.Handling of information request
Ive also considered whether the £250 offered by Aviva is enough for the delay in dealing 
with Mr and Mrs Ns information request. Aviva accepts this request wasnt handled well. It 
took steps to ensure the matter was dealt with and recorded the incident as a breach under 
the DPA. Having taken everything into account, I think the action Aviva took, together with 
the £250, was fair and in line with what Id expect to see in similar cases. So, I wont be 
asking Aviva to pay any more. If Mr and Mrs N wish to take this matter further, they could 
contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman