DRN-2825041
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs S have complained about U K Insurance Limited which provides Mrs S with a 
motor insurance policy on which Mr A is a named driver. Mr A had an accident, UKI declared 
the car was a category B write-off and then declined the claim on grounds of fraud. Mr A and 
Mrs S are unhappy about the categorisation for the car and the allegation of fraud; both of 
which have been notified by UKI to relevant bodies.
What happened
Mr A called UKI on 24 June 2020 to advise hed been involved in an accident while driving 
Mrs Ss car. He said this took place the evening before; when he was moving to turn right 
out of a side road an oncoming car (from his left) collided into the passenger side of his car. 
Mr A said the other car, which had contained a passenger as well as the driver, had been 
going too fast. UKI told Mr A that it was unlikely the speed of the other car could be verified 
and as the other driver had right of way, the claim would be logged as a fault claim against 
Mrs Ss policy.
UKI spoke to the other driver. He confirmed he was wearing a seatbelt at the time of the 
accident and had a passenger in his car.  
UKIs engineer assessed both cars. Initially it was felt that Mrs Ss car would, in theory, be 
repairable. However, the cost of the likely repairs made it beyond economic repair. So UKI 
said it would be classed as a category S write-off. Mr A said he felt that was wrong and he 
wanted the car back. UKIs engineer reviewed the damage to the vehicle and found further 
damage to the shell of the car. The engineer felt this meant the car was unrepairable and 
classified it as a category B write-off (meaning it cant be returned to a roadworthy condition). 
The classification was updated to a shared industry database to which the DVLA has 
access. Mr A was told that an appropriately accredited garage, carrying the correct waste 
disposal paperwork would have to be appointed by him or Mrs S to collect the car.
Around this same time UKI decided the claim made by Mr A was likely fraudulent. It wrote to 
Mr A and Mrs S explaining that it felt the accident hadnt happened as reported. UKI said it 
felt Mr A had knowingly given it false information with a view to gaining from the policy. It 
said this was fraud. UKI said it was declining the claim, cancelling any active policies and 
updating the industry fraud database. 
Mr A and Mrs S complained to us. Mr A said he could explain the discrepancies UKI had 
identified which had made it think the claim hadnt happened as reported. He also said he 
had photos of the accident which again showed some of UKIs concerns were unfounded or 
wrong.  Mr A said he felt UKI had acted unfairly when accusing him of fraud. He said hed 
had the car repaired but wasnt able to sell it due to its categorisation, and UKI shouldnt 
have logged the car as a category B write-off when it hadnt settled the claim. 
Our investigator noted concerns raised by an engineer UKI had appointed to consider the 
accident. For example that the drivers airbag in the other car had only deployed on 25 June 
and that the evidence from the other car showed there hadnt been a passenger on-board. 
Overall, he felt UKIs view on the claim was not an unreasonable one. He also noted that 
UKI had apologised to Mr A for the way its in-house engineer had spoken to him.  
Mr A was unhappy with the outcome, he emphasised his view that UKI shouldnt have 
recorded the car as a category B write-of when it hadnt settled the claim. His complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans consideration.
I noted that, to this point, we hadnt considered the part of Mr A and Mrs Ss complaint about 
UKI writing off the car. So I considered that and issued some findings to both parties. In 
short, I didnt think UKI had done anything wrong in this respect. My full initial findings were:
UKI declined this claim, so it wouldnt have been able to dispose of Mrs Ss car. It did, 
however, record the car as being a category B write-off. Whilst I see Mr A has said the car 
has been repaired, Im aware he was told before taking the car back that the car had been 
categorised in this way with the industry database being updated. 
I understand why Mr A feels UKI shouldnt have taken this action  it was declining liability 
for the claim but he, and Mrs S, are now stuck with this decision that it made about the 
category of Mrs Ss car. However, UKI subscribes to an industry code of practice. And that 
says that it should notify the database a soon as reasonably practical after a write-off 
decision has been made. The code doesnt make that update dependant on the related 
claim for the car in question being settled by UKI. This helps prevent unsafe cars being 
returned to the road.
I also understand that Mr A feels that the classification decision on the car may have been 
generated by ill-will on the part of the engineer. Im not persuaded that is likely the case. 
I see UKIs engineer found damage to the shell of the car which he felt made the car 
category B. The damage was found by the engineer, during a further inspection, under the 
carpet of the car. I can see why this wasnt found initially, and once found it couldnt 
reasonably be ignored. 
Ive seen a report from Mr As motor engineer. He seems to have only been able to review a 
few exterior photos of the car, and hadnt seen the car itself at all. So whilst he thinks the car 
is repairable and doesnt note any damage to its shell, that doesnt make me think UKIs 
engineer was likely wrong in his findings. I also havent seen any evidence which might 
make me think the damage identified to the shell of the car could be safely repaired (which 
might mean the classification of category B was wrong).
I think UKIs engineer acted reasonably in concluding the car was category B. I also think 
UKI acted fairly and reasonably in updating the industry database with the classification. As 
Im satisfied that UKI did nothing wrong, I dont intend to make any award against it in 
respect of this issue.
Mr A said his engineer had seen and inspected his car, he said it was UKIs engineer that 
had only completed a desktop review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive now reviewed the complaint as whole, taking into account the comments Mr A has made 
in response to my findings issued about the categorisation of the car. Having done so, Im 
not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr A and Mrs S. But I dont think UKI did anything wrong in either categorising the car as a category B total loss, or 
deciding not to deal with this claim. 
 
category B total loss 
Mr A doesnt agree with my initial findings. But his response doesnt change my view about 
the initial conclusion I reached. Mr As point seems to be that he thinks his engineers report 
should be given more weight as his engineer did inspect his car, he says UKIs engineer only 
ever looked at photos. However, the report Mr A submitted to us, completed by an engineer 
for the solicitor which presented Mr A and Mrs Ss complaint, specifically states it is a 
desktop review. And it contains just a few photos; mainly of the exterior of the car, with just 
two showing a shot with one door open. But by the time of this report, dated October 2020, 
Mr A and Mrs S knew UKI suspected damage to the shell concealed by the internal fixtures 
of the car. UKI had told them this in its final response dated August 2020. So for their report 
to prove UKIs engineer was wrong, Id have expected their engineer to specifically comment 
on the state of the bodyshell; if it needs replacing and if it does, that this can be done. A 
report which gives no indication that this damage (found and relied upon by UKI) has been 
considered by Mr A and Mrs Ss engineer, doesnt show that UKIs engineers expert 
assessment was wrong.
I remain of the view that UKIs engineer acted reasonably in concluding the car was a 
category B total loss. I also remain of the view that UKI acted fairly and reasonably in 
updating the industry database with this classification.
the claim and fraud
I appreciate that the finding of fraud by UKI is upsetting for Mr A and Mrs S. But, on this 
occasion, Im not persuaded UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in reaching this conclusion. 
Thats not to say I think Mr A has likely acted fraudulently  thats not for me to assess. 
Rather I have to look at what UKI has done and decide, in light of the evidence it had seen, 
whether it was fair and reasonable for it to reach the conclusion it did. 
Here whilst I see Mr A has said he has photos of the scene which would disprove some of 
UKIs concerns, I dont see these have ever been submitted to UKI. I know Mr A has said 
that, at some point, UKI refused to speak with him further. But I see he had contact details 
for the claim and complaints team and was still speaking with UKI contacts in August 2020 
after UKI first wrote to him and Mrs S declining the claim and alleging fraud. So I think he 
had ample opportunity to provide UKI with any evidence then that he wanted to be taken into 
account.
Mr A has provided a repair report from a motor engineer which suggests the car is 
repairable. The report states it is based on a desktop review. But Mr A hasnt provided any 
expert evidence about the circumstances of the accident and the damage reportedly 
sustained. 
I note that UKI asked an external company to report on the accident circumstances and 
damage. That engineer found it was unlikely the cars had collided as reported. His report 
explains he viewed both cars as well as extracting data from their computers. He explains in 
some detail why that evidence doesnt fit with the accident reports made by Mr A and the 
other driver. For example there was no paint transfer on either vehicle and the location and 
nature of the damage to both cars didnt support the account that Mr A was in the process of 
or preparing to turn right at this particular junction. Of note the engineer also explains that 
the airbags didnt deploy in Mrs Ss car at all, which is indicative of it having been stationary 
with the ignition off at the time of the impact. And that the other cars airbag was only deployed two days after the incident was said to have occurred. I consider this evidence 
concerning the airbags to be very significant. 
An insurer is entitled to rely on the expert evidence it receives. Ive considered the report and 
find its content compelling and persuasive. It includes cohesive reasoning and details from 
the cars computer systems are included. I think, bearing the content of this report in mind, 
UKI acted fairly and reasonably when it acted as it did to decline the claim on the basis of 
fraud. As such I cant reasonably require it to consider the claim further or amend or remove 
the record of the fraud from the industry database.  
UKIs engineers contact with Mr A
Mr A said he felt the engineer had over-stepped his bounds by stating to Mr A that he was 
going to advise UKI to not return the car to him/Mrs S. UKI has apologised for the way its 
engineer spoke to Mr A. In the circumstances Im satisfied that an apology fairly and 
reasonably makes up for what happened. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman