DRN-1881141
The complaint
Mr A has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly applied exclusions to his 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A was a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy which was 
underwritten by AXA.
In August 2017, Mr A was due to leave his employment and hence his membership of the 
group policy. He contacted AXA to seek personal cover. After asking Mr A some questions 
about his recent medical history, AXA agreed to offer Mr A a personal policy underwritten on 
a continuation of medical exclusions basis for an annual premium of £1,711. Mr A accepted 
this and the policy began on 1 September 2017.
Shortly after the policy began, AXA noted from its records of his claims history on the group 
policy that Mr A had answered one of the medical questions incorrectly in that he hadnt 
disclosed a recent consultation for arm pain and right hand tremors. On 8 September 2017, 
AXA therefore wrote to Mr A explaining this and offering him two options. It said he could 
either continue to pay the original premium hed been quoted but accept new exclusions 
relating to these conditions, or he could retain cover for these conditions but accept an 
increase in his premium to £1,925.
Mr A called AXA. After discussion, AXA noted he had answered a second question wrongly 
in that he hadnt disclosed that he had treatment planned. In light of this, AXA said that if he 
wished to avoid the exclusions, he would have to pay a premium of £4,705. Alternatively, he 
could accept the exclusions and pay the originally quoted premium. Mr A chose the latter.
Mr A later made a complaint to AXA. He considered hed answered the questions accurately 
at the time of sale. He considered it was unfair that AXA had applied the exclusions to his 
policy.
AXA didnt uphold his complaint. It was satisfied that it had treated Mr A fairly.
Mr A was unhappy at AXAs response. He referred his complaint to us. He said that AXA 
had agreed to transfer his cover from the group policy to the personal policy. He explained 
that at the time of transfer he was undergoing investigations and treatment of issues in his 
arms and hand which AXA had authorised. He said hed assumed that AXA was aware of 
this and that therefore he hadnt needed to mention it when he was asked the questions 
about his recent medical history. He said that AXAs application of the exclusions had 
caused him to discontinue his private treatment, with deleterious effects. He considered AXA 
had acted unfairly.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that AXA had acted fairly.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings. He reiterated that AXA was aware of his 
ongoing treatment because it had provided authorisation for this under the group policy. He 
considered it had therefore been reasonable for him to assume its questioning was only to 
find out about conditions which it didnt know about. He considered that AXA should have 
acted more reasonably towards him, particularly given his long relationship with it.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the first telephone call which took place between Mr A and AXA. Mr A 
explained that he wanted to transition seamlessly from his group policy to an individual 
policy. The adviser asked Mr A a series of medical questions. These included the following:
Have you had any treatment in hospital or consulted a specialist in the last 12 months; and
Do you have any treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests which are 
planned or pending?
I consider that these questions are clear. Mr A answered no to each of them.
Later that day, Mr A spoke to another adviser from AXA and confirmed these answers.
It was based on this information that AXA agreed to offer him the cover.
In fact, when AXA checked its records, it noted that Mr A had seen a consultant in the past 
twelve months with regard to symptoms in his arms and hand. And when AXA spoke to him 
again, Mr A confirmed that in fact investigations into these symptoms were ongoing. This 
meant his answers to the two questions above should both have been yes.
Mr A has explained that he assumed AXA would have been aware of his ongoing treatment 
because it had authorised the treatment in question under his group policy. He therefore 
believed he only needed to answer the questions in respect of other treatment about which 
AXA could have had no knowledge. However, AXA didnt tell him to interpret the questions in 
this way. I therefore consider that Mr A should reasonably have answered yes to the 
particular questions.
AXA has provided evidence to us to show that if Mr A had provided the correct answers to 
the two questions at the outset, it would have affected the terms of cover which it would have 
offered. I cant share this evidence with Mr A because it is commercially sensitive. However, 
Im satisfied that it would have caused AXA to charge the higher premium of £4,705. In view 
of this, I consider it was fair for AXA, having obtained the correct answers to the two 
questions, to ask Mr A either to pay this higher premium or to accept exclusions on his policy 
for any investigations or treatment relating to his arm pain and right hand tremors.
Mr A has drawn attention to his long history with AXA. However, it is up to AXA as to 
whether to exercise its discretion in favour of Mr A; I cant oblige it to do so.
While I sympathise with Mr A that he no longer is covered for treatment of his arm pain and 
hand tremors, I consider that AXA has acted fairly in this matter.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman