DRN-1611986
The complaint
Mr M complains The Co-operative Bank Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
What happened
Mr M complained about some transactions which were made on his account on 26th August 
2019.  The payments were all made to an online betting company  W.  Mr M said he had 
had a party at his house, and someone had accessed his phone, and the app and had made 
these transactions.  He told Co-op he had no security on his phone so it was possible that 
anyone could have picked it up and used it.
Mr M accepted he had a relationship with W  but said he had never complained about any 
previous transactions.  He said this supported his account now that he had not made the 
transactions on 26th August.
Co-op did not uphold his complaint.  With regards the payments to W, it said there was 
evidence linking these to Mr M.  At the same time, Co-op also considered a service 
complaint from Mr M.  It accepted its levels had fallen below its normal standards and 
offered him £100.  Co-op had initially told Mr M that the disputed transactions amounted to 
£2150  when in fact they were £3000.
But Mr M was not happy with this response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not think he could as Co-op to do anymore so Mr M asked that an 
ombudsman considers his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Mr M to be held liable for these payments, Co-op needs to show that not only were the 
payments authenticated, but that Mr M also consented to them being made.
Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated because Mr M accepts his phone was 
used to make them and his card details were stored in the app he had downloaded for W.
For the following reasons, I also think Mr M consented to the payments:
-This service has been told that the transactions to W were made possible because 
Mr Ms password was correctly entered when prompted by verified by Visa.  Ive 
heard Mr M explain to Co-op that was something everyone would have known.  Im 
not sure thats right.  Those at the party may have known of the word but not that Mr 
M had been using this as his password;
-the bets made during the transactions to W were made from Mr Ms account with W.  
This means any winnings from these bets would have been placed into Mr Ms 
account.  I cant see any benefit to a third person in doing this;
-the payments were in line with Mr Ms previous spending;
-the payments continued over a period of hours that evening.  I think its unlikely Mr M 
would not have realised someone was accessing his phone for that period;
So, based on what I have seen, I think its more likely than not that Mr M authorised these 
payments to W.  
Ive also considered whether I think Co-op has done enough in relation to the service it 
provided.  It did provide Mr M with an incorrect figure to start with  but that was rectified 
relatively quickly, and it offered £100 for this.  And listening to the calls, I think it did all it 
could it trying to arrange a date when the funds could re-debit Mr Ms account.  So, I wont 
be asking that it does anymore here either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman