DRN-1315935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Al Rayan Bank PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with their application for a mortgage. They want Al Rayan to accept that it didn't 
follow its own process and to refund all the fees they've paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K applied to Al Rayan for a UK mortgage while using an agent from outside the 
UK as they were expatriates. They paid an administration fee of £347, a survey fee of £399, 
a agent fee of £1050, flight costs of £957, £201 attestation fees and solicitor fees and costs 
to progress their mortgage, but the application was declined. Mr and Mrs K said that Al 
Rayan hadn't followed its own expatriate mortgage process properly and wanted the fees 
they'd paid refunded.
Mr and Mrs K complained to Al Rayan. It said that it was required to ensure any mortgages 
offered were affordable, and that Mr and Mrs K had failed to disclose relevant information 
about their credit history when they'd applied for the mortgage, such as the missed mortgage 
payments in the last few years. Al Rayan also said that Mr and Mrs K's financial position, 
including their credit scores, didn't meet its lending policies. It pointed out that it was 
explained in advance that the fees paid to it were non-refundable unless the reason for the 
decline wasn't due to any fault on Mr and Mrs K's part, and refused to refund.
Mr and Mrs K complained to us and said that they'd correctly declared their financial position 
in the local currency, and didn't know that Al Rayan was converting it into sterling for the 
purposes of the application and thought that what was being declared was their UK financial 
position. They also said that if the credit check had been carried out earlier, they wouldn't 
have had to pay any fees as the application would've been declined then. Mr and Mrs K 
commented that the fees paid to Al Rayan were taken hours before they'd authorised the 
payments.
The investigator's view was that the complaint shouldn't be upheld. He said that the 
application failed due to the adverse credit information held by the credit reference agencies 
about Mr and Mrs K and their credit rating, not because Al Rayan didn't follow its own 
process correctly. The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs K were told that the fees paid to Al 
Rayan were non-refundable, and they consented to the credit check and fees by signing the 
application form. He also said that any other costs weren't refundable by the lender as the 
application failed on its own merits.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They said that they never denied signing the application form or the 
adverse credit information held about them. Mr and Mrs K said that their complaint was 
about the conversion of their local currency financial position into sterling and that Al 
Rayan took the fees before carrying out a credit check or receiving the signed authorisation 
to do so. They said that if the credit check had been carried out earlier, no fees would've 
been charged.
The investigator said that Mr and Mrs K signed a declaration that said "I understand that my 
application may be refused if you get information later that disagrees with what I have already told you". But Mr and Mrs K didn't declare the adverse credit information and the 
mortgage failed due to this as well as the credit check, so the credit scoring alone wasn't 
why the application failed in his view. The investigator said that it wasn't clear when the 
credit check was carried out, but he didn't think Al Rayan had made a mistake when dealing 
with the application. He noted that the credit check had to be carried out before the 
underwriter reviewed the case under its processes and it was at the underwriting stage that 
the application failed. And the investigator didn't think it made any difference that the fees 
were taken before consent was provided as the consent was later provided.
Mr and Mrs K still disagreed with the investigator and said that Al Rayan was at fault and it 
waited too long to carry out the credit check. They said that the process should be that the 
credit check is carried out before the fees were taken and the valuer instructed, and said that 
the failure to do so caused them financial loss as the application should never have reached 
the underwriter. The investigator said Mr and Mrs K consented to the fees being taken 
before  the credit check was carried out and the mortgage was declined for other reasons 
than just the outcome of the check. Mr and Mrs K asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Mr and Mrs K aren't complaining that their application was declined. The core of 
their complaint is that they paid fees before a credit check was carried out; they say that this 
caused them financial loss as the credit check alone would've led to the mortgage 
application being declined. Mr and Mrs K also say that the taking of fees before the credit 
check was in breach of Al Rayan's own policies and shouldn't have happened before they 
consented. While Mr and Mrs K have also mentioned the conversion of local currency into 
sterling, I don't think that this is a core part of their complaint as there's no suggestion that 
this led to the decline of the application; I'm not going to deal with this point.
Having reviewed the evidence available to me, I don't think the credit check alone was the 
reason why the application failed. It wouldn't have reached the underwriter if this was the 
case. The evidence available to me shows that the application failed for several reasons - 
adverse credit information was discovered which hadn't been declared by Mr and Mrs K, 
there were concerns about the affordability of the mortgage, and the credit scoring wasn't 
good enough to meet Al Rayan's lending polices. So I can't say that if the credit check had 
been carried out earlier, the fees wouldn't have been charged as the evidence shows the 
credit check didn't end the application.
And I note that Mr and Mrs K were told the fees were non-refundable (unless the application 
was declined for something that wasn't their fault), but they chose to proceed. It's fair and 
reasonable to expect borrowers to read application forms carefully before signing them. 
Under the terms and conditions of the application form which they signed, they consented to 
the credit checks and the fees being taken. I don't think it made any difference in reality that 
the fees were taken before the consent was delivered; partly because Mr and Mrs K did give 
their consent by the end of the day and partly because Mr K had talked to Al Rayan earlier 
and said he wanted to proceed.
I looked at Al Rayan's process to deal with mortgage applications. It's a matter for the 
lender's commercial judgement how to deal with such matters, but generally we'd expect the 
standard process to be followed unless there was a good reason to act differently. Al 
Rayan's process isn't as Mr and Mr K suggest - there isn't a particular time when the credit 
check should be carried out other than during the application process and before it's 
considered by an underwriter. I asked Al Rayan for more information about the process, particularly in relation to expatriate applications. It provided further information and explained 
that when dealing with expatriate applications, an automated credit check isn't possible in 
the same way as when dealing with applications from those resident in the UK; a manual 
check is carried out using a UK address connected to the applicants. Al Rayan also pointed 
out that as Mr and Mrs K didn't declare any adverse credit issues within their application, so 
there was no reason for its staff to think there would be an issue until later in the process.
Stepping back and considering the evidence, Al Rayan followed its standard process when 
dealing with Mr and Mrs K's application, and acted fairly or reasonably by carrying out the 
check after taking the fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman