DRN-4246662
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as Better Borrow, acted 
irresponsibly when it provided  him with a loan in 2022.
Background
Mr C applied for and was given a £6,000 loan repayable over 24 months by Better Borrow in 
November 2022. At the time he has said that he already had a lot of existing debt, and he 
was becoming increasingly reliant on credit. He says the loan wasnt genuinely affordable to 
him and if Better Borrow had run adequate checks it wouldnt have given him the credit.
Better Borrow has said that it checked Mr Cs income and expenditure as well as credit file. It 
assessed that although Mr C did have existing commitments already he had sufficient 
disposable income left at the end of each month to cover the repayments. So, its satisfied 
that the loan was affordable and doesnt think it was wrong to provide it. 
Unhappy with Better Borrows response Mr C brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into his complaint already. She found that while the loan may have 
appeared affordable on paper, Mr Cs existing debt to income ratio was already close to 
50%. Therefore, she felt that it was unlikely the loan repayments would be sustainable over 
the term of the loan. So, she upheld the complaint as she didnt think Better Borrow 
shouldve provided the loan to him. 
Mr C accepted the investigators findings but Better Borrow didnt. It repeated that although 
Mr C had a number of existing credit obligations each month his remaining disposable 
income wouldve covered the monthly repayments and so it didnt think it was wrong to give 
him the loan. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so its been passed to 
me for consideration. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for much the same 
reasons. 
Mr C has told us that at the time he took out the loan with Better Borrow he was becoming 
increasingly dependent on credit and he was already struggling to meet his existing monthly 
repayments. He believes if Better Borrow had done more detailed checks, including looking 
at this bank statements, it wouldve realised he couldnt afford the credit he was applying for. 
Better Borrow has pointed out that Mr Cs declared monthly take home pay was in excess of 
£5,500. While it accepts that he had a large amount of existing debt it still thinks there was 
sufficient money left once all of these had been paid, to cover the monthly loan repayments 
attached to the loan. 
It has said it didnt find any evidence of high-cost credit lending on Mr Cs credit file and that 
the declared purpose of the loan was home improvements. It has noted that at the time of 
application there was no adverse information on Mr Cs credit file. 
It's important to clarify that when considering applications for credit lenders need to check 
whether the credit looks to be affordable and also sustainable. This means that its not just 
about considering whether or not the lending looks affordable on paper but whether the 
repayments are likely to be sustainable throughout the life span of the loan. 
While the second part of the test is arguably more subjective than the first part, I agree with 
our investigators findings that Mr Cs existing income to debt ratio shouldve resulted in 
Better Borrow running more thorough checks to ensure the loan was genuinely sustainable. 
At the time he applied for the loan Mr C already had an income to debt ratio of nearly 46%. 
While I accept that Mr C didnt have any adverse information on his credit file at that time I 
think his existing indebtedness was an indicator of someone who was already overly reliant 
on credit. I note that only two months after taking the loan Mr C had contacted Better Borrow 
to explain he couldnt afford the repayments and was in financial difficulty. 
So having reviewed the case in full I dont think the lending was sustainable and I dont think 
Better Borrow shouldve provided the loan to Mr C. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Chetwood Financial Limited trading as Better Borrow should:
To add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
the lending. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount.
a) If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should
be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments
were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Better Borrow should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr C.
Once any outstanding balance has been repaid B should remove any negative
information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Better Borrow to take off tax from this interest. Better 
Borrow must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Chetwood Financial Limited 
trading as Better Borrow. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman