DRN-2622847
The complaint
L, a firm of loss assessors, complains on behalf of Mr W and his daughter Ms W, directors of
a company, T. Their complaint is that AXA Insurance UK Plc has rejected Ts business
combined insurance claim for the theft of a number of valuable watches, due to the alleged
breaches of alarm and fraud conditions in the policy.
 What happened
On the evening of 14 September 2018 there was a burglary at premises shared by T with
another company (of which Ms W was also a director). Mr Ws wallet was stolen, along with
a few items on display. The alarm was activated, and the police were alerted by the alarm
company. That company said its records show that it attempted to alert both keyholders,
Mr and Ms W. It said it had no response from Mr W and an automated response from Ms W
to say she wouldnt be attending. Ms W denies making any sort of response until the next
morning.
The police attended and arranged for a broken window to be boarded up, but couldnt
contact Mr or Ms W. Early the next morning, the premises were broken into again, this time
through a much larger window. The burglars stole the safe and the contents of it, namely a
number of valuable watches. As the sensors in the office area were deactivated from the first
burglary, the alarm didnt activate again. The police were called by a neighbour but the
burglars had left. Again the police arranged for the window to be boarded up but again were
unable to contact Mr or Ms W.
Mr W attended the next morning when he was informed of the burglary when an employee
opened up. He made a claim to AXA in respect of his lost stock, worth in the region of
£128,000. AXA carried out extensive investigations. It discovered that Mr and/or Ms W had
been involved with companies that had been closed down owing a lot of money. And that the
telephone records for Mr and Mrs Ws and Ms Ws phone were all showing no activity that
night or the following morning until about 10am. However it referred to the log from the alarm
company and took the view that Ms W had been contacted that night but had replied that
she wouldnt attend. AXA declined the claim on the basis that Mr and/or Ms W had been in
breach of the alarm condition in the policy, and Ms W had made a false statement that she
hadnt been contacted by the alarm company that night and was in breach of the fraud
condition in the policy.
Mr W said he had switched his phone to silent that night as he was looking after
grandchildren so didnt look at his phone that night. Ms W was away at a hotel. She said she
didnt receive any phone calls that night. She had left her phone on charge in the hotel room
while she had a meal, but only received a voicemail the next morning which she responded
to saying she wouldnt attend, as she had by then been told of the burglaries.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that AXA acted reasonably.
L said that Mr and Ms W werent in breach of the alarm condition, as it only required that
keyholders attend as soon as reasonably possible. Mr W contends that he did so, as soon
as he was informed of the burglaries. L also said that Ms W hadnt made a false statement, 
and that the alarm companys records couldnt be relied on as it had a duty of care and 
would be in a difficult position if it had failed in that duty. So it didnt accept that the alarm log 
could be relied upon. It also pointed out that AXA both said there were no records of phone 
use that night by Mr or Ms W and it said she received and replied to a call from the alarm 
company.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought it reasonable for AXA to decline the 
claim. But I said, in respect of the fraud condition in the policy that I didnt think that AXA had 
shown fraud, so, if it had recorded this on its internal or any external database it should 
remove such references.
AXA said it had found that Ms W had breached its fraud condition by making a false 
statement. But it hasnt alleged fraud and there will be no recording of this internally or 
externally.
Mr W responded that the time that AXA had taken to complete its investigations deprived 
them of any ability to get their phones forensically examined or to carry out any independent 
interrogation of the alarm company records. He believed AXA had impeded the claim, 
reaching the same conclusions after a year as those it had reached some four months into 
the claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
In deciding this matter AXA relied on breaches of the alarm condition and of the fraud
condition, although I note that our view in this case only concerns the alleged breach of the
alarm condition. In view of the possible serious consequences for Mr or Ms W with an
allegation of fraud on their insurance record (assuming it has been or will be recorded as
such) I shall consider both alleged breaches.
alarm condition
The relevant part of this condition in the policy says:
In the event of notification of any activation of the intruder alarm system or interruption of
means of communication, including one or both alarm transmission systems for dual
signalling systems, during any period the intruder alarm system is set a key holder will attend
the premises as soon as reasonably possible.
If the alarm cannot be reset following the key holder attendance you must make
arrangements for the premises to be attended until the intruder alarm system is fully
operational
If you do not comply with this condition you will not be covered and we will not make any
payment in respect of a claim for malicious damage and/or theft or attempted theft.
The effect of this is that AXA has to show that Mr or Ms W did not attend the premises as
soon as reasonably possible, after being notified of the alarm activation. And L says that
Mr W did attend as soon as reasonably possible, on being informed of it the next morning.
AXA has relied on the phone records of the three phones of Mr and Mrs W and Ms W. It alsorelies on the phone log from the alarm company. I should say at this stage that I have to
assess the evidence put before me. I appreciate that Mr and Ms W have provided sworn
statements but I cant give those any higher consideration than other documents, as we
dont have the power to cross examine any witnesses. With regard to the records from the
phone and alarm companies I think it reasonable to rely on them, unless theres other
evidence to show they are unreliable.
With the amount of valuable stock kept on the premises I think it was for Mr W and Ms W to
ensure that one or the other remained contactable at all times. It appears that Ms W went to
stay at a hotel overnight, some two hours drive away, and by her account didnt look at her
phone all night (although she denies receiving any calls). Mr W deliberately kept his phone
on silent and again didnt check his phone all night. The phone records for the 14-15
September show no activity at all. L says the records are wrong, and there is some evidence
that the mobile phone provider changed during that period, so I accept that some data may
have been lost.
On the other hand I cant see why the alarm company records cant be relied on. It is a
straightforward log of the activity that night. Ive seen no evidence to show this was wrong,
apart from Ms Ws assertions otherwise. The alarm company records show the following:
A first attempt was made to contact Ms W and Mr W at 20:48 and 20:50 hours
respectively. No response.
A further attempt was made to contact Ms W and Mr W at 21:35 and 21.37 hours
respectively. No response from Mr Ws phone. But the log says a response was received
from Ms Ws phone, timed at 21:35:48 indicating Keyholder Unable to Attend.
At 22:25 hours a third and final attempt was made to contact Mr W alone, but no
response was received.
The alarm company says the system cannot retrospectively alter the chronological log order
and that Ms W must have pressed 2 upon receipt of the second automated call (to say she
wouldnt attend) and would have excluded herself from all further calls. This, AXA says,
explains why she didnt receive a third call at around 22:25 hours.
This makes sense to me  the response from Ms Ws phone was precisely timed. And while
I understand that the phone records dont show this call (as they should do), Ms W doesnt
deny receiving the voicemail message, but only says it was received the next morning. I
think it more likely than not that Ms W gave the automated response at 21.35 that night, not
the next morning.
The evidence is that, had Mr or Ms W attended the premises after the first alarm activation,
they would have been able to reset the alarm. And if this had happened, the second burglary
would have activated a call to the police. I understand that the burglars spent over 16
minutes removing the safe and breaking the window.
So as I consider that Ms W did tell the alarm company she wouldnt be attending, she, or
Mr W failed to attend the premises as soon as reasonably possible. So they were in breach
of the alarm condition. And as this had a bearing on the subsequent theft, I think it was
reasonable for AXA to decline the claim.
fraud condition
AXA says that, in breach of the fraud condition Ms W knowingly made a false statement insupport of a claim. This being firstly that she said that she used her phone as a satnav to
get to the hotel, meaning it ran out of charge. The phone records showed that she didnt use
her phone after 12.00 that day. Theres also her statement that she didnt reply to the
voicemail from the alarm company until the next morning.
AXA also relies on the fact that Mr W and Ms W were both involved with failed companies
that collapsed owing very large sums of money. The inference being I presume that they had
an interest in the burglary taking place and recovering the money.
Its a serious matter to accuse a person of fraud. Whilst I have to consider whether its most
likely that Ms W did make a false statement to support the claim, I need to see strong
evidence to show this. I bear in mind that the police investigated this matter and didnt
pursue it (admittedly this would have been on the criminal standard of proof). But Mr W 
co-operated with the police at all times and did manage to recover two watches when they 
were offered to him for sale.
As for Ms Ws statements, the data she used may not have been recorded accurately for
reasons previously stated. In respect of her statement that she didnt respond to the
automated call that night, I dont think it reasonable to say that was in breach of the fraud
condition, as its not clear in making that statement that she had the intention to support
receiving payment for something she wouldnt have been otherwise entitled to, an essential
element of fraud. And given that this doesnt appear to be part of any plan to stage the
burglary, I dont think it reasonable to say this was fraud. I note that AXA has said it doesnt
intend to avoid the policy. But it will, I believe have recorded this, or intends to do so, against
Mr W and/or Ms Ws records. And this could have serious implications for any future
insurance they wish to buy. If AXA has recorded this or intends to record this as a breach of
the fraud condition, I think it should remove, or not record any reference to it from its own
and any external database. If it hasnt recorded it as such and doesnt intend to do so, I
would ask that it confirm this in response to this provisional decision.
I note AXAs response concerning the alleged breach of the fraud condition. And I note that it 
has not recorded, nor will record, any alleged fraud either internally or externally. So I wont 
make any further direction concerning this. Its a bit simplistic to refer to it as a fraud 
condition because knowingly making a false statement in support of a claim is also a breach 
of that condition though it falls short of fraud.
I note Mr Ws concerns about the investigation process, but this was a complicated 
investigation. L essentially said that both the alarm company and the mobile phone 
companys records were false, so this required substantial investigation and the interrogation 
of both companies as to the veracity of their records. And forensic investigators were 
instructed. I bear in mind also that AXA thought it appropriate to carry out a special 
investigation into possible fraud, which is a very serious matter leading to the possibility of 
criminal conviction or the recording of fraud against both Mr Ws and Miss Ws insurance 
record. 
Whilst I understand the reasons for the companies collapsing with a large amount of debt, 
nevertheless such a background does give rise to justifiable suspicions which had to be 
investigated. Whilst it took until November 2019 for AXA to give its final response it 
nevertheless had set out clearly what its views were regarding the claim on 12 April 2019 
and in response to a complaint by L on 27 June 2019. I dont think that would have 
prevented Mr W having further investigations of the alarm company or the mobile phone 
company carried out. Although it appears from the papers that L had reached a dead end 
concerning this. The only other possibility was the police obtaining data from the mobile 
phone provider directly from the phone masts but I understand that the police (who were the only ones able to do this) failed to make an application within 12 months after which time the 
records were no longer available.
But I return to my provisional findings. Whatever the reliability of the mobile phone records 
was, I think the alarm company records were reliable, and as a result I remain persuaded by 
my provisional finding that Ms W received an alert from the alarm company the night of the 
burglary and she responded to say she wasnt attending.
My provisional findings as set out above, are now final and form part of this final decision. As 
Ive said I dont need to require AXA to take any further action regarding the alleged fraud, 
so I wont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman