DRN-4203926
The complaint
Miss A complains Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited trading as OneFamily (One 
Family) failed to provide her with the investment performance for her Child Trust Fund 
Account (CTF) and she was unaware her original investment had been transferred to One 
Family.
What happened
Miss A was originally represented in this complaint but has since asked that she deal with 
her complaint directly. Miss A held a CTF from 2004 with a provider Ill call L.  In 2016, the 
CTF was transferred away from L. When Miss A later discovered this, she was unhappy that 
she had not been informed about the transfer. 
Miss A wanted information about how the trust fund was handled, how it performed and how 
much the fund was worth under Ls management as she was disappointed that a deposit of 
£250 was only worth £450 eighteen years later. She requested details of the investment 
performance between 2004 and 2016. 
She complained to L separately and also raised a complaint with One Family as she 
understood her investment had been managed to 2016 by L and by One Family thereafter.
One Family issued its final response in which it said it had held the investment since 2016 
and so held no records relating to the opening of the account. But from what it did have, the 
information suggested this account was opened by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) on 
Miss As behalf, as the government voucher had expired. It said it received £469.31 as part 
of this transfer. The account was marked as gone away which mean there was no address 
listed at the time and the investment was in a Tracker Trust Fund. It didnt have any further 
information.
Dissatisfied Miss A brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Miss A. One Family then confirmed that it had received 
the funds from a company I will call S in May 2021. In its final response it enclosed 
information on how the account worked, as well as a graph which shows previous 
performance of the fund. In her view, One Family had limited information available and had 
only received the transfer in May 2021. Based on this the investigator found that One Family 
had acted fairly and reasonably and so didnt ask it to do anything further. 
Miss A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman Review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive independently reached the same outcome as the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. I know Miss A will be disappointed, Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss A and by One Family. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Firstly, its important to say that there are three companies that have been involved with Miss 
As CTF, L, S and One Family. I am only considering the role One Family has played and 
whether it has acted fairly and reasonably.
There isnt a lot of information here on which to reach a decision. One Family originally 
thought Miss As CTF was part of a bulk transfer from L in 2016, but it now says it was 
received as a transfer in from another company, Ill call S in May 2021.
The information doesnt clearly show when the investment was received but I can see from a 
screenshot provided by One Family that the address was modified in May 2021 and in the 
absence of any other information it seems more likely than not, that this is the date it 
received the funds from S.
So, One Family wouldnt be able to provide any information on investment performance prior 
to May 2021 when it received the funds. When it received Miss As complaint it did provide 
details of where the funds were invested and a graph showing potential performance, so Im 
persuaded it did all it could to explain where the funds were invested and how the 
investment worked. I understand Miss A is unhappy with the value of the fund and expected 
it to have performed better than it did over the eighteen years.  One Family has only held the 
account since May 2021, so the previous seventeen years were with other providers. But, as 
our investigator mentioned, it is not within this services remit to examine the success or 
otherwise of a business investment management strategy including the performance 
achieved. In addition, OneFamily were not required to provide advice to Miss A about how 
the CTF should be invested.
I appreciate Miss A is unhappy that her investment was transferred to One Family but the 
decision to transfer the investment lies with S and so I cant fairly hold One Family 
responsible for that decision. There also wasnt an address present on the account when the 
transfer occurred. As soon as One Family were informed of the correct address, it sent all 
the relevant information to Miss A.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Wendy SteeleOmbudsman