DRN-3071723
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about advice they received when taking out a joint life assurance 
policy. They feel the policy was unsuitable, as it may not be able to cover them for the rest of 
their lives without its premium increasing.
Their adviser was part of Sesame Limiteds network at the time, so responsibility for the 
advice sits with them. To keep things simple, Ill use Sesame in my decision to refer to all 
the companies theyre responsible for.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
A key part of the recommendation to have the policy was so it would cover any 
inheritance tax (IHT) Mr or Mrs Ts estates would incur.
The sum assured for the policy  how much it would pay when Mr and Mrs T died  
looks to have been set based on reasonable efforts to calculate the IHT, under the 
tax rules at the time. 
There also appears to have been flexibility in the policy to change the sum assured 
as time went on. That reasonably takes account of the fact Mr and Mrs Ts financial 
circumstances could change, and that the tax rules could change as well. 
The premium for the policy was to pay for the life cover, and to go towards an 
investment that could help pay for the policy in later years. 
That seems reasonable, to anticipate that as Mr and Mrs T grew older the cost of life 
cover was likely to go up. 
The premium looks to have been set using industry standard estimates about the 
investments possible rate of growth.
Its reasonable Sesame used estimates for future growth, as they couldnt have 
known for sure what was going to happen in later years. 
The shortfall now expected in the policy seems to come from it not growing as had 
been estimated, and because lower growth rates are being used to estimate its future 
growth.  
The reduction in estimates about the future rate of growth reflects a move  driven by 
Sesames regulator  towards using lower rates of growth in such estimates.
Its reasonable Sesame used higher estimates in 1999. They were the standard 
expected at the time, and Sesame couldnt have known the actual rate of growth  or 
the industry standard for estimating growth  would be lower in later years. 
Mr Ts commented in response to our investigators view about the risk of the 
investment not being explained to him at the time. 
But Ive seen it was mentioned in some of the correspondence from 1999. Most 
notably, a letter from 18 February 1999, where Sesame recommended a Balanced 
Managed fund to suit Mr and Mrs Ts attitude to risk. There were also numerous 
warnings that the investment might not perform as well as estimated.
I find this does enough to show Sesame did consider investment risk when advising 
Mr and Mrs T, and had mentioned it in their advice. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, Mr T, Mrs T 
and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman