DRN-2220663
The complaint
Mr D complains about updates Al Rayan Bank PLC made to his online banking which meant 
he was unable to log into his bank account via his phone. Mr D says this was how he mainly 
accessed his account, so the changes have caused him a lot of inconvenience when 
completing his day to day banking because he lives roughly an hour away from his local 
branch.
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said although Al Rayan was 
entitled to update its software and make changes, Mr Ds personal circumstances meant he 
was no longer able to have regular access to his money. She said Mr D had also told her 
that he didnt have a desktop to use the soft and hard token Al Rayan had provided. And he 
didnt want to use telephone banking regularly due to a hearing issue he had. She added 
that Mr D couldnt easily switch banks because he would have to pay fees to Al Rayan to do 
so. So, she felt Al Rayan should offer Mr D £100 to recognise the inconvenience the 
changes have had on him. 
Al Rayan disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman review. It said it made the changes 
due to the Payment Services Regulations so it could improve its security and that it had seen 
on its system that Mr D had used a hard token to make a transfer. Al Rayan also wanted to 
see medical proof of Mr Ds hearing condition as it had listened to calls it had had with him 
and there didnt appear to be an issue with his hearing and Mr D had never raised this 
before. It added that it didnt think it should pay Mr D compensation under is treating 
customers fairly guidelines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to uphold it. 
I understand the points Al Rayan has made about why the changes to online banking were 
necessary. And I accept that its said under its treating customers fairly policy it hasnt 
considered an inconvenience payment for this issue. But I also need to consider whether 
Mr D has been generally inconvenienced by these changes given his personal 
circumstances. 
Im satisfied that Mr D lives far enough away from his local branch that it wouldnt be 
reasonable for him to travel there to do his day to day banking. I note Mr D would also have 
to pay penalties to move his money to another bank at no fault of his own. Hes also 
confirmed he used a friends computer to transfer the money Al Rayan has mentioned 
because he doesnt have his own desktop to use the tokens Al Rayan has sent.  
Based upon what Mr D has said, Im satisfied using telephone banking isnt as convenient 
for day to day banking as the online app he used to use. This means the changes have 
inconvenienced him because he doesnt currently have regular access to his money like he 
did previously. 
 
Ive also taken Mr D at his word that he does have hearing issues which means completing 
regular telephone banking is also inconvenient for him. I dont think I have to see medical 
evidence when Mr Ds explanation of his circumstances is evidence enough for me to 
consider the issue with his hearing, in line with the other circumstances he currently finds 
himself in. 
So, I believe Mr D is entitled to some compensation for the inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
Putting things right
Im satisfied the £100 the Investigator has mentioned is fair and reasonable and takes into 
account the issues Mr D has had since the changes were made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. Al Rayan Bank PLC should pay Mr D £100 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman