DRN-3951884
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding a 
payment being stopped on his account.
What happened
Mr U wanted to make a payment of £1,290 to a friend. Because he was sending money to a 
new payee, Mr U first instructed a payment of £10, which HSBC allowed to complete. 
However, when Mr U then tried to pay the remaining £1,280, HSBC stopped the payment. 
Mr U contacted HSBC about this, but he wasnt happy with the line of questioning taken by 
HSBCs agent regarding the payment, which Mr U felt was intrusive and unnecessary. Mr U 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr Us complaint and said that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by 
blocking the larger instructed payment. HSBC also explained that while they were sorry if Mr 
U hadnt appreciated being questioned by their agent about the instructed payment, they 
didnt feel that their agent had acted unfairly by asking the questions that they had. Mr U 
wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, and he also wasnt happy that a later £400 payment 
hed instructed which had also been blocked by HSBC hadnt been returned to his account in 
a timely manner. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Us complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr U 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in his correspondence with this service, Mr U has referred to his rights under UK 
law. Id therefore like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that HSBC have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  impartially, and after 
taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr U is unhappy that the payment he wanted to make to his friend was flagged by HSBCs 
fraud prevention system. Such systems are used by all financial institutions to flag account 
activity that may be of concern and to bock further usage of an account where its felt that 
there is a possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. 
Financial institutions such as HSCB have an obligation to employ these systems in order to 
comply with regulations which require banks to have systems in place to protect  as much 
as possible  their customers accounts from acts of attempted fraud.
 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. And this appears to have been the case in this instance.
 
I recognise that Mr U would like HSBC to provide a more detailed explanation as to why his 
instructed payment was blocked, but I wouldnt expect HSBC to provide such an explanation 
here. This is because if a bank were to explain to a customer how they could avoid having 
their attempted payments flagged by its fraud prevention systems, this would allow the 
potential circumnavigation of those systems and thereby reduce their effectiveness.
Mr U has also questioned why a payment of £10 was allowed to complete, only for the larger 
instructed payment being sent to the same payee to be blocked. But financial institutions are 
expected to apply security measures proportionately, and as such it doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me that a payment of £1,280 would be subject to more stringent criteria 
than a significantly lower payment of £10.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that its for HSBC to decide how they structure and manage their 
fraud prevention systems. And I dont feel that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr U by 
blocking the instructed payment as they did. 
Mr U is unhappy with the questions that were asked by HSBCs agent about the blocked 
payment. I can appreciate Mr Us displeasure here. But having listened to recordings of the 
telephone calls between Mr U and HSBC, I dont feel that the line of questioning taken by 
HSBCs agent was unreasonable. 
In arriving at this position, Ive considered HSBCs obligations to protect Mr Us money and 
prevent potential fraud as described above. Mr U is unhappy that the result of the call was 
that HSBCs agent wouldnt allow the payment to complete. But I feel some of the answers 
Mr U provided to HSBCs agent might reasonably have prompted that agent to exercise 
caution rather than approving the payment, and so I dont feel this outcome was unfair.
Mr U has stated that its his right to not answer questions if he doesnt want to. That is 
correct. But it doesnt follow from this that HSBC have to complete an instructed payment if 
theyre not comfortable doing so. And I dont feel its unfair for HSBC to decide to not 
approve a payment if theyre not satisfied that their fraud prevention criteria have been met. 
In this instance, because HSBC continued to have concerns about the payment, Mr Us 
account remained restricted after the initial call. Again, this doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me, but it meant a further payment for £400 that Mr U attempted was also blocked by HSBC. 
Mr Us account was unblocked after he called HSBC the following morning and clarified 
matters with them and confirmed that the no longer wanted the blocked payments to go 
ahead. Mr U is unhappy with the length of time it took HSBC to return the payment amounts 
to his account. However, Mr U was informed at that time that the return of the payment 
amounts wasnt an instantaneous process, and I dont feel that there was any unfair or 
unreasonable procedural delay in Mr Us money being returned to him.
I dont dispute that Mr U has been inconvenienced by what happened here, or that he was 
upset by the questions HSBC asked of him. But I feel that HSBCs obligations here  as Ive 
described them previously  should fairly take precedent. And because of this, I feel that any inconvenience or upset that Mr U has incurred was unfortunately necessary  and that it 
therefore doesnt follow from that upset and inconvenience that HSBC have acted unfairly. 
All of which means that I dont feel that HSBC have done anything wrong here and that 
consequently I wont be upholding this complaint. This is because Im satisfied HSBC didnt 
act unfairly in flagging the larger instructed payment for further checks, or by taking the line 
of questions with Mr U that they did. I also dont feel that HSBC acted unfairly in how they 
returned Mr Us money to his account when he confirmed he no longer wanted the instructed 
transfers to go ahead.
 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr U was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman