DRN-2656925
The complaint
Mr Bs complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) dealt with him when 
an international payment from his account was blocked.  
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr B tried to set up an international payment from his Barclays account using 
online banking.  The payment was blocked, and Mr B had to call Barclays.  
Mr B says the member of staff he spoke to took him through security and confirmed hed 
passed their checks.  He then explained to Mr B that Barclays thought he might have a virus 
in his system and asked more security questions.  The call continued in this vein for about 
50-55 minutes.  
During the call, Mr B concluded that Barclays thought there was a problem verifying his 
identity.  So he asked the adviser several times if he should go to his branch to provide proof 
of identity.  He says the adviser didnt respond to this when he first suggested it  but then 
abruptly told Mr B he should go to his branch with two forms of ID.  And, in the meantime, 
the adviser disabled Mr Bs account.
Mr B took his ID to his branch.  He says he was there from 11am to 5pm trying to sort the 
issue out  which meant he couldnt work that day.  
While he was at the branch, Mr B complained to Barclays.  In their response, Barclays 
explained that the adviser was trying help Mr B unlock his account without having to go to 
the branch.  But they accepted that the call shouldnt have taken 50 minutes and offered    
Mr B £150 compensation.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response.  So he brought his complaint to us.  He told us 
that he wasnt happy that no-one had explained to him why hed had to spend so long on the 
phone or in branch.  And he wasnt satisfied with Barclays complaints handling process, as 
the complaints handler hadnt listened to the call when shed first investigated  nor had she 
spoken to the adviser, who he said had caused him to waste his whole day putting things 
right.  Mr B said that £150 was nowhere near enough compensation for this.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint.  He explained that he couldnt comment on 
Barclays complaint handling, as its not one of the regulated activities our rules allow us to 
investigate.  And he concluded that £150 was a fair amount of compensation for the 
inconvenience Mr B had been caused.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint  but Im not requiring Barclays to do any 
more than theyve already offered to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, Barclays complaints handling isnt something we can 
investigate.  So Im not going to comment on Mr Bs concerns about that.
I understand Mr Bs frustration at what happened.  But banks have an obligation to check 
theyre dealing with account holders, to prevent customers being defrauded.  Unfortunately, 
fulfilling those obligations sometimes means that  as happened here  genuine customers 
are inconvenienced.
Ive seen that Mr Bs concerned that said something wrong during the call, which caused 
the adviser to end it and tell him he needed to go to the branch.  He says he wanted to know 
what that was, so he wouldnt do it again in the future.  Barclays complaints handler told Mr 
B in her response that hed not done anything wrong.  
I cant comment on why the adviser decided to tell Mr B he needed to go into the branch  or 
why he took so long to do that.  But I cant agree with Mr B that he should have been told 
why.  Its reasonable for Barclays not to share that information as its part of the measures 
they have in place to prevent fraud.
While I think it was reasonable for Barclays to decide to ask Mr B to go into his branch, I 
agree with both parties that it shouldnt have taken as long as it did for the adviser to make 
that decision.  I agree that Mr B should be compensated for that  and for the length of time 
he had to spend in the branch.
Mr B doesnt think £150 is enough compensation for this.  Hes told us he thinks Barclays 
would treat their customers better if they had to pay more for what happened to him.
I understand what Mr Bs saying here.  But we dont award compensation to punish a 
business.  We look at the impact a businesss mistake has had on the individual complaining 
to us by comparing what would have happened if no mistake had occurred.
Mr Bs payment was blocked before he spoke to Barclays.  So hed always have needed to 
speak to them to try and get it unblocked.  And its not been suggested that Barclays 
shouldnt have asked him to go into the branch  but they took too long to do that.  Ive seen 
that Mr B asked whether he should go into the branch 21 minutes into the conversation.  And 
the adviser asked him to do that after theyd been talking 45-46 minutes.  So the 
conversation could have been 24-25 minutes shorter.
As well as this, Mr B spent some hours in the branch to sort things out.  But he was able to 
do that.  The payment was made the next day.  So the length of time Mr B was 
inconvenienced was limited to several hours.  
Mr Bs told us that he runs his own small business.  So the time he spent dealing with the 
issue on the phone, and later at the branch, meant he lost out on business for that day.
Ive thought about this.  And I asked if Mr B could provide any more information about the 
losses he says hes suffered.  Mr Bs provided details of his typical daily charges.  But hes 
not provided specific information about losses.  I dont think its fair for me to speculate on 
what Mr B might have earned that day  or to conclude thats a loss for which Barclays 
should compensate him.
So Im limiting my decision to the inconvenience Mr B suffered on the day of the call and visit 
to the branch.  Im satisfied that £150 is the right amount to reflect this inconvenience.  And I think Barclays should pay this to Mr B.  But I dont think they need do anything more than 
that to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and directing them to pay Mr B £150 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman