DRN-3829449
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down her income protection claim. 
What happened
Mrs D is covered under her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is 
to provide an income in the event she cant work because of illness or injury. The scheme 
has a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
In 2020, Mrs D stopped work because of stress and anxiety. In 2021, she returned to work, 
but did so on reduced hours. Unum considered a claim, but concluded that Mrs D did not 
meet the schemes definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mrs D brought a complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Based on the medical evidence, 
she thought Unums claim decision had been reasonable. 
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme terms define incapacity as:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
The scheme terms also say:
If an illness or injury prevents a member from working in their own role for the normal 
number of hours but they work part time or on restricted duties or in a lower-paid role, we will 
pay benefit at a reduced rate. We call this proportionate benefit.
Mrs Ds representative has raised concerns about the meaning of deferred period in the 
scheme terms, as they consider the wording to be contradictory. I disagree. The terms make 
it clear that benefit starts after an insured member has been unable to work for a period of 
time which is known as the deferred period. Mrs Ds employer chose a deferred period of 26 
weeks. 
The deferred period can be a continuous absence, or separate periods of absence of at least 
two weeks from the same cause, or periods where the member has worked less hours. 
Mrs D returned to work before 26 weeks had passed from the date that she first stopped 
work, but she did so on less hours - therefore this would still be considered the deferred 
period. If Unum had accepted the claim, then (proportionate) benefit would have been paid 
after 26 weeks.
Turning to the claim itself - Ive considered the medical evidence throughout the 26-week 
deferred period, to decide whether Unums claim decision was reasonable.
Mrs D was signed off as unfit to work by her GP due to stress at work. Initially, Mrs D said 
she had low mood and wasnt sleeping well, which were caused by various issues. Though 
from January 2021 until Mrs D returned to work, it seems she didnt have much contact with 
her GP regarding her mental health, and the medical certificates were issued without 
consultations.
Mrs D was regularly assessed by occupational health physicians. One physician observed 
that Mrs D was having a stress response to different factors, and there was little medically 
that could be done to address her personal issues. The occupational health physicians 
concluded that Mrs D could not return to work. Though after January 2021 there was 
reference to Mrs D sometimes feeling overwhelmed and needing to take time out, and to her 
symptoms remaining not far below the surface. Based on this, theres little evidence to 
support that Mrs D was experiencing a mental health condition which prevented her from 
working her normal hours. 
I understand Mrs D was seeing a psychologist during the deferred period. We asked her if 
she wanted to provide evidence from them so we could see if this supported that she was 
experiencing mental health symptoms which could have impacted her ability to do her role 
full-time, but she declined to provide this evidence. 
Mrs D has provided evidence from Dr S (consultant psychiatrist). Dr S first met Mrs D in 
October 2021 after the appointment was arranged through Mrs Ds private medical 
insurance. Dr S concluded that Mrs D was significantly, psychiatrically unwell, and that she 
fulfilled the criteria for a generalised anxiety disorder. She thought Mrs Ds symptoms of 
anxious thoughts, muscular tension and feeling sick had a considerable affect on Mrs Ds 
ability to cope with a working day. Dr S also thought Mrs D was mildly depressed.
I have taken into account Dr Ss comments, but I do need to bear in mind that Mrs D met 
with Dr S around five months after the end of the deferred period. In her report, Dr S said 
that Mrs D had needed five months off work because of her level of psychological and 
physical symptoms  but Mrs Ds medical records from that period dont support that she 
was experiencing significant symptoms which prevented her from working. 
Unums company medical officer (CMO) is also a consultant psychiatrist. The CMO carried 
out a review of Mrs Ds medical records from the deferred period, and said that her mental 
health presentation was triggered by various life stressors, but there was a lack of 
documentation of mental state examination by the GP. He said there were no other 
symptoms to support a diagnosis of depression/anxiety disorder. The CMO noted that Mrs D 
remained on a low dose of antidepressant medication, and there had not been any 
escalation of treatment throughout the deferred period. The CMO concluded that the 
evidence did not support an enduring mental illness that would have incapacitated Mrs Ds 
daily functioning.
In the absence of any evidence from a mental health specialist during the deferred period, I 
think it was reasonable for Unum to rely on its CMOs opinion here. Whilst it does seem as 
though Mrs Ds mental health may have declined by the time she met Dr S in October 2021, 
Im not persuaded the evidence shows that Mrs D met the scheme definition of incapacity 
during the deferred period. I recognise my decision will disappoint Mrs D, but I dont require Unum to pay the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman