DRN-1730364
 
The complaint
Mr G says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a mortgage in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr G mainly says that he took out the PPI because Halifax told him it was mandatory and he 
wouldnt get the mortgage he was applying for without it. He also told us he didnt need the 
PPI as he had other insurance cover already set up. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
On Mr Gs mortgage application theres a section headed Accident, sickness and 
unemployment insurance and it says here: We recommend that you consider our Mortgage 
Payments Protector Scheme.. (this is what Halifax called its PPI at the time).
And next to this it asks: Do you wish to join the Scheme? (Y/N)
Theres a handwritten Y marked on the form next to this question. Mr G has signed the 
completed application confirming that he agrees with the information in his application.
Ive taken into account everything Mr G has told us about the way he says Halifax sold him 
the PPI. But what Mr G says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.  
I dont doubt that Mr G is certain about what hes told us. But it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mr G to recall exactly what was discussed at the time. 
I cant be sure exactly how Halifax explained PPI to Mr G during the course of discussions 
when he took out his mortgage. But, looking at the paperwork he signed at the time, I find 
the wording and layout of his mortgage application clearly sets out PPI as a matter of choice. 
Mr G would've been able to see that it was up to him to choose whether or not he wanted to 
have PPI  and it was added to his account when he indicated that he wanted to take out 
this cover. As Mr G says he took out the policy during a meeting, Halifax looked at his complaint on the 
basis that it wouldve advised him to take out PPI. If a financial business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy information in a clear way. And if 
this didn't happen, I have to decide whether this makes any overall difference.
Mr G was eligible for the PPI policy. 
Ive taken into account what Mr G told us about his work benefits and other means. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if he was unable to work as a 
result of accident or sickness and repeat claims were possible. As Mr G told us that he was 
entitled to statutory sick pay only, I think the policy offered him useful protection. 
Mr G mentioned having insurance in place arranged through his employer that effectively 
topped up his sick pay. But Ive seen no details of that policy. So I cant fairly say that the 
benefit that policy offered wouldve been sufficient to make having PPI unsuitable. And given 
that Halifaxs records show that Mr G made a successful claim on the PPI policy this 
suggests that he needed to rely on the accident and sickness cover that the PPI offered. 
And as well as this, PPI wouldve also paid out if Mr G lost his job unexpectedly and was out 
of work. 
His mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Mr Gs 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. The policy 
gave Mr G long term protection for his mortgage. PPI meant Mr G could be sure hed be able 
to meet his mortgage monthly repayments. So I think a PPI recommendation wouldve been 
suitable for Mr G and the policy was useful to him.
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully into account that Mr G had other insurance 
policies set up. But this information doesnt affect my overall view that the PPI wasnt mis-
sold. I say this because the paperwork hes sent me and the other insurance he has 
described provides a different sort of benefit to PPI. Accident and healthcare policies pay out 
in different circumstances and (like at least two of the policies Mr G had set up) provide a 
lump sum in the event of death, loss of limb or permanent total disability. PPI provides a 
monthly benefit for short term absence from work. 
It also seems to me unlikely that insurance Mr G had arranged some years before he took 
out his mortgage wouldve been set up to provide a level of cover that was likely to be 
sufficient to take into account the extra expense of his mortgage monthly repayments. 
And whilst Mr G has mentioned that the PPI wouldnt have paid out for the first 30 days, this 
isnt an unusual or onerous policy term. And it isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Gs case. So, I dont think its likely that having more information about things the policy 
didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to take it out. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know how Halifax explained the PPI costs and benefits to Mr G. But 
he chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to. So it appears Mr G wanted the 
protection it offered and it seems he was happy to pay for it. If Mr G hadnt found the cost 
acceptable he was able to cancel the policy at any time and at no extra cost as he paid for 
the cover monthly. The policy provided a benefit level that covered Mr Gs mortgage monthly 
repayments and it seems to have been affordable for him.  Given his circumstances, and looking at the protection PPI offered him, I think it unlikely 
Mr G wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance 
I think he still wouldve taken out the policy.
So I dont think that Mr G has lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong. This means it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman