DRN-4252932
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a loan Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My 
Community Bank (MCB) provided to him. He says that he had historic issues with debt and 
gambling which would have been apparent had sufficient checks for a loan of such a large 
amount been completed.
Background
MCB provided Mr H with a loan for £15,000.00 in June 2021. This loan had an APR of 
15.99% and had a 48-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£20,505.71, which included interest, fees and charges of £5,505.71, was due to be repaid in 
47 monthly instalments of just under £416.93. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr H and MCB had told us. And she thought that 
MCB hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So she didnt recommend Mr Hs 
complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
MCB needed to make sure that it acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H. As part of this, it 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that the loan was affordable. In practice, what 
this means is MCB needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Mr H could afford to make his monthly repayments 
before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
MCB says it agreed to Mr Hs application after he provided details of his income. It says it 
also carried out a credit check to assess Mr Hs existing indebtedness and used statistical 
data to get an idea of Mr Hs regular living expenses. In its view, all of this information 
showed Mr H could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, 
Mr H has said he had historic issues with debt and gambling which would have been 
apparent had sufficient checks for a loan of such a large amount been completed.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and MCB have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that MCB not only asked Mr H for details about his income, it 
also carried out a credit check to assess Mr Hs indebtedness. 
MCBs credit searches also did show that Mr H had some existing debts. But its fair to say 
that these werent excessive. Furthermore, while Mr H says that other lenders have asked 
him for copies of payslips and bank statements I dont think that MCB not asking him for this 
necessarily means that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. 
Each lender will have its own criteria for determining what it wishes to see from a customer 
before lending. And as Ive explained, the more important thing is for a lender to get a 
reasonable understanding of a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Obtaining bank 
statements isnt the only way for a lender to do this. 
In any event, as part of its checks I would have expected MCB to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mr Hs regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit 
commitments. The information Mr H has provided does appear to show that when his 
committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his 
monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments for this loan. 
I accept that the real reason for Mr Hs inability to make his payments to this agreement 
wasnt due to his existing credit commitments or his living expenses. It was because he was 
gambling. But this isnt readily apparent when Mr Hs bank statements are considered. I 
appreciate that there are cash withdrawals and cash deposits going in and out of Mr Hs 
account. However, I dont think that this necessarily means that MCB ought reasonably to 
have concluded that Mr H was gambling.
Furthermore, what I need to think about here is what MCB needed to have done in order for 
its checks to have been fair and reasonable  in other words, what were Mr Hs actual 
regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the 
credit search)?  given this was a first loan Mr H was taking out with MCB. 
Bearing in mind checking bank statements wasnt the only way for MCB to have found out 
more about Mr Hs actual living costs  it could have obtained copies of bills or other 
evidence of payments etc  I dont think that fair and reasonable checks would necessarily 
have highlighted Mr Hs cash withdrawals in the first place. So I dont think that MCB could 
reasonably be expected to have known about the nature and extent of Mr Hs additional 
spending. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr H experienced difficulty making the payments. But the key here is 
that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And I dont think that MCB could possibly be expected to have 
known that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable, bearing in mind that 
reasonable and proportionate checks are unlikely to have shown that this was the case.
So overall I dont think that MCB treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when providing him 
with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr H - particularly as he feels strongly about this complaint as other lenders 
asked him for more information. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman