DRN-4322711
The complaint
Mr H complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited should meet his claim on his
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in late October
2020.
For the year from 6 November 2021, Mr H had the car insured on a comprehensive policy
with Accredited. Any claim for damage (except to glass) was subject to excesses totalling
£600.00.
Unfortunately, Mr H reported to Accredited that on the evening of 25 October 2022, hed
driven the car on a flooded road and come to a standstill.
Mr H renewed the policy for the year from 6 November 2022.
By a letter to Mr H dated 9 November 2022, Accredited turned down the claim.
Mr H complained, through us, to Accredited that it wasnt treating him fairly.
He later told us hed used his parents car until 13 February 2023, when he got a temporary
replacement vehicle.
By a final response dated mid-April 2023, Accredited turned down the complaint. Mr H asked
us to investigate.
In late April 2023, Mr H told us that the car was at a garage waiting for parts to repair it at an
expected cost of about £5,800.00.
In mid-May 2023, Mr H told us that the replacement vehicle had broken down and he was
again using his parents car.
He later showed us an invoice from the garage for £5,720.92 including VAT dated late May 
or early June 2023.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
Accredited had done enough to demonstrate Mr H hadnt taken reasonable care. She
recommended that Accredited should:
1. contact Mr H to settle the claim within the remaining policy terms and limits; and
2. award Mr H £300.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H  
and to Accredited on 18 August 2023. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find (on the balance of probabilities) that Mr H took a calculated risk or was 
reckless about driving through the water. So I didnt find that Accredited treated him 
fairly by declining his claim.
I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Accredited to reimburse Mr H the 
amount of the invoice, £5,720.92, less the excess of £600.00, that is a balance of 
£5,120.92.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from Accredited, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Limited to pay Mr H:
1. £5,120.92 in settlement of his claim; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 2 June 2023 to the date of 
its payment. If Accredited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £300.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr H acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision.
Accredited disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
From a photograph, the vehicle is quite large. In order for water to enter the engine 
bay in the air in-take, the water would have had to come up rather high meaning that 
either the water was clearly deep which would have been visible to Mr H at that 
depth, or Mr H was driving at a high speed for the water to rise that high. 
If the water was that high, this would have been clearly visible to Mr H and if he 
proceeded to drive through the water, this would have been reckless.
If this was not the case, Mr H knew that there was a body of water and despite not 
knowing the depth, he has carelessly driven through the water at speed, causing the 
water to rise up the height of the engine bay. 
Either way, it would consider this to be reckless. 
Regardless of whether it was dark, there are visible streetlights, and car lights are 
designed to show road signs and bodies of water, especially vehicles such as Mr Hs, 
which are higher and gives a wider view of the road ahead. 
An online map from 2021 shows the road flooded. The image provides evidence that 
the road is liable to large amounts of water and Mr H would have been aware of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response, Accredited referred to an exclusion of any deliberate damage by Mr H.
The general exclusion Ive seen is wider than that. It excludes any claim from an incident
resulting from something the insured had deliberately done or failed to do.In its final response, Accredited also referred to the general conditions which Mr H had to
keep to (otherwise Accredited might refuse or reduce any claim). The conditions included
one that he would protect his car from loss or damage.
Notwithstanding such policy terms, I dont find it reasonable for Accredited to decline Mr Hs
claim unless his driving was worse than careless. After all, comprehensive policies are
intended to cover the driver for the risk of carelessly damaging their own car.
I dont find it reasonable for Accredited to decline Mr Hs claim unless his driving had
reached the point of recklessness.
Its common ground that it had been raining heavily. I accept that Mr H shouldve had the
benefit of local knowledge, warning signage and street lighting.
However, it was dark, and Mr H said there was a car behind him. The signage said the road
was liable to flooding. It didnt say the road was closed. I accept that Mr H misjudged the
depth of the water on the road.
So I dont find (on the balance of probabilities) that Mr H took a calculated risk or was
reckless about driving through the water. It follows that I dont find that Accredited treated
him fairly by declining his claim.
Response to the provisional decision
Accredited referred to the size of the car and inferred that either the water was visibly deep 
or that Mr H was driving at high speed. However, I dont consider that Accredited has 
provided evidence of Mr Hs view from behind the steering wheel. I find it likely that, even in 
a larger car, Mr H mis-judged the depth of water. I dont infer that he was driving too fast.
Accredited said that Mr H wouldve been aware that the road was liable to flooding. However 
I consider that - even if he was aware of periodic flooding- he mis-judged the depth of the 
water.
I still dont consider that Mr H was reckless.
Putting things right
The garage invoice records the cars mileage of about 14,000. And I consider that the
invoice details are consistent with repair of water damage.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Accredited to reimburse Mr H the amount of that 
invoice, £5,720.92, less the excess of £600.00, that is a balance of £5,120.92. As he will 
have been out of pocket since about 2 June 2023, I find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Accredited to add interest at our usual rate.
From what hes said, I dont think that Mr H was without the use of a car between late
October 2022 and early June 2023. However, Accredited unfairly declined his claim, which 
mustve caused him financial worry and inconvenience from having to make other 
arrangements to repair the car. That went on for some months. So I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Accredited to pay Mr H £300.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I directAccredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to pay Mr H:
1. £5,120.92 in settlement of his claim; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 2 June 2023 to the date of 
its payment. If Accredited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £300.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman