DRN-1399803
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his lending applications.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Barclays can decide who its willing to lend to  and on what terms. Its not our 
services role to interfere with its legitimate commercial discretion over this, so it 
would be inappropriate for me to direct Barclays to take on more lending risk than its 
comfortable with. It would also be irresponsible for Barclays to approve lending which 
its not satisfied is affordable.
Mr Rs refinancing application was declined because it didnt meet Barclays internal 
scoring criteria, based on factors such as account performance and credit-reference 
data. And because the information he provided to verify his income showed this to be 
lower than stated on his application form  so Barclays couldnt confirm affordability. 
On this basis, Im satisfied Barclays applied its lending criteria correctly and fairly.
Im satisfied that Mr Rs subsequent application for a temporary overdraft was also 
properly considered  but didnt meet the required internal scoring and affordability 
criteria.
I havent seen anything to substantiate Mr Rs allegation that Barclays handling of 
his applications unfairly prevented him from getting the borrowing. To the contrary, its 
underwriting team has confirmed that the number of referrals during the applications 
didnt affect his internal credit score or its lending decisions.
Barclays has paid Mr R £200 compensation for any conflicting information provided 
about the application process  and the time taken to respond to his complaint. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that, but for errors by Barclays, he would have 
been granted the lending. I say this because his applications didnt meet its criteria. 
But I appreciate that Barclays contact may have caused some confusion and 
distress. Particularly given what Mr R has told us about why he needed the money. In 
all the circumstances, Im satisfied £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for this 
impact. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr R. But, for the reasons given above, Im not directing 
Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020. 

Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman