DRN-3443140
The complaint
Ms B complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) has unfairly declined cover 
for alternative accommodation (AA) under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In December 2021, Ms B suffered an escape of water at her home and made a claim 
on her home emergency cover with Company A. Ms B says she was told it would 
provide AA cover of £250 per night and incurred costs across an 11 night stay. It 
since said Ms B was only entitled to £250 of AA cover in total. This complaint against 
Company A has been considered by this Service previously.
Around the time Company A declined the AA claim, she contacted St Andrews  her 
home insurer who is subject of this complaint. It told her that no claim had been 
logged with it and that contacting her home emergency provider was not valid 
notification of a home insurance claim.
Ms B argued that Company A contacting St Andrews to check if she had cover in 
place should be considered notification of the claim. She also argued that the escape 
of water should amount to damage to a persons life even if the policy referred to 
physical damage. 
This complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into things. 
She said evidence from the time showed Company A had called St Andrews to 
explain Ms B had made a home emergency claim and would be claiming for AA 
under its policy. And it said St Andrews may need to consider related damage under 
the home insurance policy and St Andrews asked Company A to pass on its details.
The Investigator said in turn Ms Bs notification of Company A would not amount to 
formally logging a claim. But, in any case she said the claim was declined on the 
basis of the escape of water causing no damage to the home. And AA could only be 
claimed for under the St Andrews policy if the home was uninhabitable due to a 
cause under the buildings cover  which hadnt happened here.
Ms B disagreed. She said shed never been given any details of St Andrews and 
provided a detailed response explaining the impact of this incident on her.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs submissions are extensive. Within this decision I wont be responding in similar 
detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature of our 
Service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I 
will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That 
may mean I dont comment on everything Ms B has said but I have read and considered 
everything provided by all parties.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Bs home insurance policy provides AA cover in the event of a property being 
uninhabitable due to any cause covered under buildings cover. The causes 
referenced here means the set list of perils described within the policy. This includes 
perils like fire, flood, storm damage and includes escape of water from any domestic 
appliance or fixed domestic water installation. 
This means for Ms Bs claim to succeed, the policy would need to cover the insured 
peril that caused the property in question to be uninhabitable. St Andrews has said 
due to Company A identifying the source of the leak and repairing it, and there being 
no water damage to the home, it wont provide AA cover.
Ms B hasnt disputed that there is no physical damage to the home. So, there is 
simply no claim to be made under the escape of water peril. In turn it seems to me 
whether the home is uninhabitable is immaterial to the outcome of the claim as it 
wasnt caused by an insured peril. But for clarity, with no water damage to the home 
and the repairs completed soon after the matter was reported, I would not be 
persuaded that the home was uninhabitable for the purposes of this policy.
Ms B holds St Andrews responsible for not logging a home insurance claim at the 
time she contacted Company A to report the home emergency claim. I agree with our 
Investigator that this isnt an expectation wed hold on insurers in a situation like this. 
But in any case, for the reasons Ive given above, this wouldnt have changed 
anything as there is no home insurance claim for St Andrews to cover. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman