DRN-3820711
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited handled his 
chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr P booked a cruise and paid using his JLFS credit card. In September 2021, Mr P 
discovered that the cruise operator wasnt allowing passengers to disembark the ship unless 
they had pre booked an excursion. Mr P says that he hadnt been told about this when he 
booked.
Mr P contacted the cruise operator and asked for a refund. He said he wouldnt have booked 
if hed known about the requirement affecting disembarkation.
Mr P wasnt able to resolve matters with the cruise operator so he contacted JLFS to raise a 
chargeback.
JLFS raise a chargeback claim and credited Mr Ps account whilst it investigated. The cruise 
operator disputed the chargeback so JLFS asked Mr P to provide some further information. 
Mr P provided this but says his payment was then re-debited without notification to him and 
he incurred charges on his credit card.
Mr P contacted JLFS and asked why the payment had been re-debited. JLFS said the funds 
would be re-credited to his account but this didnt happen. JLFS also said the chargeback 
had lapsed and that it would consider the claim under section 75. The section 75 claim was 
later declined by JLFS.
Mr P complained to JLFS. In response, JLFS acknowledged that it had provided Mr P with 
incorrect and/or misleading information about the chargeback and offered £100 
compensation. It said it was satisfied that it had correctly determined the section 75 claim.
Mr P wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the chargeback claim had lapsed 
because Mr P had sent the information hed been requested to send after the deadline. The 
investigator said that even if the information had been sent on time, she didnt think the 
chargeback claim wouldve been successful. The investigator also considered whether JLFS 
acted fairly when it declined the section 75 claim and concluded that there wasnt evidence 
to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation and that JLFS had handled the claim 
fairly.
Mr P didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is a transaction reversal made to dispute a transaction and secure a refund for 
the purchaser. When a chargeback happens, the disputed funds are held from the seller until 
the card issuer decides what to do, based on the information provided by both the seller and 
the buyer.
In this case, I can see that JLFS raised the chargeback claim. JLFS asked Mr P to provide 
further information. I can see that although Mr P did provide some further information, he 
provided this after the deadline. By that time, the chargeback claim had lapsed.
Ive looked at what happened after this. JLFS has acknowledged that it provided incorrect 
information to Mr P when he called to ask why the funds had been re-debited. JLFS agrees 
that it didnt provide the level of service that Mr P was entitled to expect an offered £100 
compensation. It has since offered a further £100 compensation.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think JLFS made an error in the way it handled the 
chargeback claim. However, it did provide incorrect advice to Mr P when he called. JLFS has 
offered £200 compensation in total, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So I wont be asking JLFS to do anything further in relation to the chargeback.
Ive gone on to consider whether JLFS acted fairly when it declined the section 75 claim. 
JLFS declined the section 75 claim because it found that there had been no breach of 
contract by the cruise operator.
Mr P says that the cruise was misrepresented to him. He says at the time he booked the 
cruise he wasnt told that he wouldnt be able to disembark unless he had pre-booked shore 
excursions.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit. There can only be a valid claim under section 75 if payment 
was made under what is called a debtor creditor supplier agreement and if it can be shown 
that there has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Im satisfied that the debtor credit supplier requirement is met here. So Ive focussed on 
whether there was a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr P has said that the cruise operator failed to mention the disembarkation ban and that this 
is a breach of contract because the terms and conditions of the contact with the cruise 
operator state that it will advise of any significant changes to the package.
The information Ive seen shows that Mr P went on the cruise and enjoyed all the on-board 
benefit that he was expecting. Ive seen an email from the cruise operator dated 10 
September 2021 which says that all passengers travelling on cruises departing after 25 
September 2021 would be able to disembark but must adhere to specific Covid 19 protocols 
in each destination and that protocols differed between destinations. The email recommends 
that passengers pre-booked excursions. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions. These say that passengers will be advised of any 
significant changes to the package. Based on what Ive seen, the cruise operator did advise 
passengers of the restrictions on excursions in its email dated 10 September 2021, so Im 
unable to say that theres been a breach of contract here.
Ive also considered whether there has been a misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is an 
untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a contract. Ive taken into 
account the points Mr P has made regarding the advertising of the cruise. Taking everything 
into account, Im not persuaded that there has been a  misrepresentation here, because theres no evidence that Mr P booked the cruise with a  specific excursion in mind, and I 
understand from the information provided that he was able to disembark in any event.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think JLFS handled the section 75 claim unfairly. So I 
wont be asking them to do anything further.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman