DRN-3959760
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Santander UK Plc didnt fairly consider her request to extend the term 
of her interest only mortgage. Ms Y asks that Santander extends her mortgage for the 
maximum term possible, up to when shed be at its maximum age limit (about 18 years).
What happened
Ms Y took out an interest only mortgage in 2010. The mortgage was in joint names with her 
father, who died in 2019. The term is due to expire in January 2024.
In late 2021 Ms Y asked Santander to extend the term. Santander initially said Ms Y should 
contact it within six months of the expiry date. It then agreed to consider an extension, but 
declined. It said it had concerns about affordability, Ms Ys existing defaults and her 
continued use of unsecured debt. Santander said it would re-consider nearer the term end if 
Ms Ys financial position showed month by month improvement.
Ms Y said shed been offered a mortgage by another lender and Santander offered to waive 
the early repayment charge if she chose to re-finance. Ms Y didnt want to re-mortgage as 
the monthly payments would be higher than her Santander mortgage. Ms Y doesnt want to 
sell the property and says this wouldnt be straightforward as she holds the property title as 
tenants in common with her mother, and cant sell the property without her consent. Ms Y 
has dependent children and she doesnt want her mother (who lives in a cottage at the 
property) to have to move. Ms Y has told us she has a mental health disability and the 
uncertainty about what will happen has caused her significant worry and upset.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties, saying in summary that Santander should re-
consider Ms Ys request for an extension and whether this would be in her best interests. I 
said Santander would need information and documents from Ms Y in order to consider what 
was in her best interests. I said it should provide a list of what it needed and make 
reasonable adjustments in the way it communicated with Ms Y.
Santander agreed with my provisional decision and provided a list of the documents and 
information required. It said Ms Y has contact details for a named mortgage adviser who she 
can contact if she wishes. We sent a copy of the list of documents and information to Ms Y, 
to help her prepare for what shell need to provide.
Ms Y didnt agree. She didnt agree that Santander needed further information as she said 
shed demonstrated she could maintain mortgage payments. Ms Y provided more 
background and information about her circumstances. She said Santander had already 
confirmed shed meet affordability tests with £8 to spare and said there was more than 
£400,000 of equity in the property. 
Ms Y asked that the ombudsman make a decision about the term extension, rather than 
Santander. Ms Y said Santander shouldnt increase her payments after her product ends. 
She said shed have had a product in place if it werent for Santanders delays with the term 
extension.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Santander to offer an extension its required to act responsibly and make sure Ms Y can 
afford this in the longer term. This means it would have to assess this as affordable or, if not, 
in Ms Ys best interests. I said in my provisional decision that I didnt have enough 
information fairly to require Santander to extend the term of Ms Ys mortgage on the basis 
its affordable or in her best interests without it conducting further checks into her situation. 
This is still the case.
The rules on mortgage regulation set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) require 
an affordability assessment before a lender offers a mortgage or agrees to vary a contract.
While a term extension would be a variation of Ms Ys contract, I think the transitional 
provisions set out in MCOB 11.7.1 and 11.7.3 apply here. These allow a mortgage contract 
to be varied provided certain conditions are met (which seems to be the case here) and the 
variation is in the customers best interests.
Santander says because the mortgage was originally in joint names affordability has to be 
considered for a term extension in a sole name as this is a material change. But I think 
Santander can rely on MCOB 11.7.1 and 11.7.3 to offer an extension despite concerns 
about affordability if its in Ms Ys best interests.
Thats not to say that Santander cant or shouldnt ask for information to establish whether 
an extension is affordable. Its unlikely to be in Ms Ys best interests to extend the term if she 
cant maintain interest payments. Her debt would increase and potentially leave her in a 
worse position, especially given the extension she requested is for a relatively long period.
I think its fair for Santander to ask Ms Y for information and evidence about her financial 
situation and other circumstances, provided this is reasonably necessary for it to make a 
decision as to whether a term extension would be affordable, or if not would still be in her 
best interests. 
In my provisional decision I said Santander should provide a full list of what it needed, to try 
to minimise the impact on Ms Y. Santander provided a list of documents and information it 
needs from Ms Y. Ms Y said Santanders list includes new items. I think the new requests 
might relate to matters that Santander was previously unaware of (such as that Ms Y 
expected to have a court hearing related to a financial settlement with her ex-husband). In 
fairness though Santander might need to ask for further information  for instance if there 
are transactions in Ms Ys recent bank statements that it needs to understand or it becomes 
aware of a possible change in Ms Ys circumstances. 
Ms Y provided some of the information requested by Santander to us, which we can forward 
to Santander if thats what Ms Y wants. 
Ms Y says the uncertainty about the term extension is causing her distress, and shes 
concerned about her payments increasing after her product ends in early March 2023. To 
move forward Ms Y will need to engage with Santander and provide information and 
documents to help it assess affordability and whats in her best interests. I appreciate this 
isnt easy for her, and Id expect Santander to make reasonable adjustments in accordance 
with what Ms Y has told it about her mental health disability.
Ms Y said Santander failed to make reasonable adjustments for her disability when it had obstructed her request for an extension. She said any omissions in the information she 
provided were due to her disability. 
I cant fairly require Santander to offer an extension without considering whether this is 
affordable and in Ms Ys best interests. And to do this, it does need information and 
documents from Ms Y. Ms Y could consider appointing a representative to deal with 
Santander on her behalf, to protect her from some of the stresses involved. This could be a 
family member or an independent financial adviser (IFA). If she finds it difficult to contact her 
creditors, she could provide written authority to Santander for it to contact them direct.
Id also recommend Ms Y consider asking an IFA for advice about her possible options. Its 
possible Santander will be unable to offer a term extension and there may be other options 
available to Ms Y that an IFA can offer her. Ms Y asked how her payments would be affected 
if the term wasnt extended, and what would happen if she had to sell the property at the end 
of the term. Ms Y says theres more than £400,000 of equity in the property, and its possible 
she will have options. Id encourage her to speak to an IFA to explore her options.
When considering if an extension is in Ms Ys best interests, I think its fair for Santander to 
take into account (and ask for information and evidence about) the following.
The effect on Ms Y of continuing uncertainty due to her mental health disability. Ms Y 
says Santander is aware of her disability and the need to make reasonable adjustments.
What options Ms Y has to repay the mortgage when the term ends or in the future.
If Ms Y has no means to repay the mortgage balance other than to sell the property, I 
havent seen anything to suggest this would be different at the end of a term extension. 
Ms Y says theres more than £400,000 of equity in the property. Theres no guarantee 
that property prices will rise or even remain the same. The amount of equity could 
decrease during an extension.
Ms Y has two dependent children and its likely to be easier for her to move to a smaller 
property after they become adults.
Ms Y says when her children reach 18 years old her mother will be nearly 80 years old. 
She doesnt want her mother to have to move when shes nearly 80. However, Ms Ys 
mother could live for some years more than this, and indeed more than the extension 
Ms Y asks for. It might be easier for her mother to move before the term expires in 
January 2024 or after a shorter extension.
Whether Ms Y can meet monthly payments. It might not be in Ms Ys best interests to 
offer an extension if she isnt able to meet the monthly interest payments and this 
increases her debt.
Ms Y says she was offered a mortgage by another lender. She didnt want to re- 
mortgage as the monthly payments are higher and she says they arent affordable. 
Interest rates have increased since Ms Y took out her current product. Most likely Ms Ys 
payments will increase significantly when her product expires in early March 2023 even if 
she stays with Santander. Santander will need to assess whether this is affordable. 
Ms Y said her unsecured debts result from an abusive relationship: her ex-partner made 
her take out debt for his benefit. Ms Y has debt management plans with these creditors. 
She says these are renewed annually and the creditors require none or only nominal 
payments. I dont think its fair to decline an extension on the basis this might change such that the mortgage payments wouldnt be affordable, unless theres some reason to 
think this is likely to happen. Santander asked for letters from each of these lenders 
confirming the repayment plans agreed. I think this is a reasonable request. Ms Y says 
its difficult for her to contact the lenders. Ms Y could appoint a representative to do this 
for her or provide written authority for Santander to contact the lenders directly.
Santander expressed concerns about Ms Ys continued use of unsecured borrowing. 
Ms Y says further borrowing isnt available to her because of her poor credit record. Its 
unclear if Santander remains concerned. Whether its fair to take this into account 
depends on the circumstances  for instance, if Ms Y is borrowing in order to meet her 
regular outgoings this would be unsustainable, especially when her monthly mortgage 
payments increase.
Santander says it cant rely on Ms Ys payment history to demonstrate affordability as 
she received payments from a friend. Ms Y says since returning to work shes been 
making mortgage payments from her own income (from August 2022). Ms Ys payments 
will increase significantly in March 2023 and Santander will need to consider if the higher 
payments are affordable.
Ms Y says her mental health disability means she can only work part time. Ms Y says 
she doesnt expect her mental health disability to change. She says her work is in a 
secure role. On this basis, her earned income will likely remain the same.
Some of Ms Ys income is child related (child benefit and maintenance from her ex- 
partner). Santander says Ms Ys income will reduce once her youngest child reaches 18 
years. At this point it would also be easier for Ms Y to move to a smaller property. Ms Y 
says her income will increase at this point, as shes likely to retire and receive her 
pension. If this is Ms Ys intention, it would be reasonable for Santander to ask for 
information and evidence about her pension.
Ms Y says one way or another shell find a way to maintain payments, and her mother 
and her friend would help if necessary. Santander cant rely on this to demonstrate 
affordability. However, Ms Y said her mother and her friend are willing to provide 
guarantees and Santander should discuss this with Ms Y. It would be fair for Santander 
to ask for information and evidence from the potential guarantors if this is to be explored 
as an option.
What happens now?
Ms Y says while her PIP award was reviewed in late 2022 she doesnt yet have the PIP 
award letter. And the hearing related to the financial settlement with her ex-partner didnt 
take place and theres nothing she can provide to Santander about this. 
Ms Y says shes uncomfortable about sharing her personal health information with strangers, 
and this is why she provided only part of her PIP award letter to Santander. I do understand 
this. However, weve asked Santander to consider whether a term extension is in Ms Ys 
best interests. And to do so, Santander will need to ask further questions of Ms Y  it simply 
cant grant a term extension without assessing whether its an affordable or realistic option 
for Ms Y. I appreciate the difficulty, inconvenience and sensitivity for Ms Y. But, in fairness, 
Santander does need information and evidence about Ms Ys financial and (where relevant) 
personal circumstances to reach a fair decision about whats in her best interests. 
Santander has sent a list to Ms Y of the information and documents it needs, so she knows 
what is required. I would encourage Ms Y to provide relevant documents and information to 
Santander and keep it up to date with any changes in her situation. Ms Y says the title to the property is held as tenants in common with her mother, and she 
cant sell without her consent. I appreciate this could present problems selling the property, 
and might also make it difficult for Ms Y to take out a mortgage. I dont know if this will be a 
problem for Santander when considering a possible term extension. As I said, I think Ms Y 
should consider taking advice from an IFA about her options, and/or appointing a 
representative to help her through the process with Santander.
Ms Ys mortgage product ends in early March 2023 and her monthly payments are likely to 
increase significantly. Santander says Ms Y can choose a new product now so that she and 
they know what Ms Ys payments will be (assuming the term is extended). Ms Y can 
consider looking into products which dont have an early repayment charge, which would 
allow her to switch products if product rates reduce in future.
It is worth noting however that mortgage interest rates have significantly increased since 
Ms Y took this mortgage. So its very likely that her monthly payment is going to increase 
substantially, regardless of what Santander is able to offer her. We cant require Santander 
to offer Ms Y a lower interest rate simply because she cant afford what it can offer her. So it 
may be that Ms Y needs ultimately to look at downsizing her property. I do realise this is not 
what she wants, and will likely caused her stress and upset. This is why I think an IFA will be 
best placed to advise her on what to do.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should fairly consider Ms Ys request for a term 
extension, and engage with Ms Y and ask her for the information, documents and evidence it 
needs to do this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman