DRN-3232590
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Gold Service 
account in 2008.
Mr S has given a number of reasons why he says the account was mis-sold. These include, 
that he was not offered the option of a free account and he was told the account would be 
beneficial for him. Mr S says that he was experiencing financial difficulties at the time and 
that he trusted the advice he was given.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has assessed Mr Ss complaint, and they didnt think that the Gold 
Service account was mis-sold. Mr S disagreed and so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it might also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened based on everything that is available. And having 
weighed everything up, Ive not seen enough to be able to say that the Gold Service account 
was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr S says that Lloyds didnt offer him a fee-free account. However, I understand that at the 
time of the sale, Mr S was a new customer of Lloyds and Mr S said that hed held a fee-free 
account before he agreed to the Gold Service account. As such, I think that Mr S was 
generally aware that fee-free accounts were available when he agreed to the Gold Service 
account. 
The account was recommended to Mr S. This meant that Lloyds had to make sure it was a 
reasonable fit for Mr Ss circumstances at the time.
In 2008, the Gold Service account cost £12 per month and provided benefits such as 
worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and card protection 
cover. It also provided other benefits such as a £100 interest free overdraft and I understand 
it offered lower rates of interest (compared to what was charged on a fee-free account) on 
overdrawn balances above this amount  up to the agreed limit. It also provided access to 
an exclusive saver account.
Mr S says that due to issues with his eyesight, he is unable to drive and so ineligible for 
breakdown cover. Mr S says that this means the account was mis-sold. However, just to 
clarify, being ineligible and not needing an insurance product are two different things. 
In Mr Ss case, he was eligible to use the breakdown cover  for example, if he was able to 
drive he wouldve been covered, and also he was covered even if he was a passenger in 
someone elses car. But, whilst he was eligible for cover, I accept that he didnt have a need 
for the cover, as he didnt drive. I also accept that its unlikely he wouldve wanted 
breakdown cover in the event that someone elses car that hes in happens to breakdown.
However, whilst I accept that Mr S didnt need the breakdown cover, that doesnt necessarily 
mean the account was mis-sold either. This is because the account was sold as a package. 
So Mr S was unable to pick and choose what it came with. Essentially this meant he either 
agreed to it (and the cost) for the few benefits he mayve been able to use or not accepted it 
and continued with a fee-free account instead.
I have therefore gone on to compare Mr Ss circumstances with the other benefits on the 
account to see if Lloyds recommendation was still reasonable.
The Gold Service account included mobile phone insurance. And I can see that Mr S went 
on to register a phone in August 2008  as well as register other phones in later years. So 
Im satisfied he had a need for the mobile phone insurance. 
I note that the account also included travel insurance, and can see Mr S occasionally 
travelled, and called the travel insurer a number of times. So again I think he had a need for 
this benefit too. The Gold Service account was the cheapest account that offered these two 
insurance benefits. As such, I think that Lloyds recommendation that Mr S open a Gold 
Service account for these two benefits for a combined monthly cost of £12 per month was 
not unreasonable in the circumstances.
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mr Ss circumstances, Lloyds also had 
to provide Mr S with important information about the account. Its clear that he was given at 
least some information about the account, as he seems to have been aware from the outset 
that hed pay a monthly fee for the account. And I can see he knew how to go about 
registering phones and how to contact the travel insurer too. 
It has been a requirement of the account that he declares existing conditions to the travel 
insurer to check if they would be covered. And I can see that Mr S did just that. There are 
entries dated February 2011, May 2013, May 2014, May 2016, May 2017 and June 2018 
where Mr S has contacted the insurer to declare his condition and to make payments e.g. to 
cover the conditions or to upgrade to excess waiver. So I think this requirement was made 
clear to him.
Due to the timescales involved and the lack of evidence, I cant be sure that Lloyds gave Mr 
S all of the information that it shouldve done during the sale. But having said that, Ive also 
not seen anything about Mr Ss circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve 
been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. 
Finally, I note that Mr S says that he was suffering from financial difficulties at the time the 
account was sold to him. But looking at his bank statements, I dont think this wouldve been 
apparent to Lloyds. I say this especially as Mr S credited just under £500 to open the 
account and the account then continued to operate within a credit balance in the months 
after the account was sold to him. So I cant reasonably say that Lloyds recommendation 
that he take out the Gold Service account was unreasonable for this reason either.
Therefore, having taken everything into account, Im unable to say that the Gold Service 
account was mis-sold. Overall, I think its more likely that Mr S agreed to the account 
because he was attracted to, and able to make use of, some of the benefits the account 
offered, rather than because he thought he had no choice in the matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Gold Service account was mis-
sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman