DRN-3240371
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) have unfairly 
declined to cover legal costs she incurred with her solicitor after they agreed to appoint 
them. 
Acromas use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy and manage claims on 
their behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
The policy terms and conditions state that the policyholder may appoint their own 
solicitor in the event that there is a conflict of interest, or where it has become 
necessary to commence legal proceedings. Acromas acknowledged that Mrs Gs 
claim had reached this point on or around 21 August 2019 after negotiations with the 
respondent to her legal claim had failed, so they agreed to allow her freedom of 
choice and terms of appointment were subsequently sent to her solicitors. 
After Acromas appointed Mrs Gs preferred legal representative, her dispute was 
eventually resolved by way of making a section 75 claim, which was suggested by 
her solicitors. This meant that it was no longer necessary to issue proceedings and 
pursue the matter through court. As a result, the insurer said that any costs Mrs G 
incurred with her solicitors would not be covered as proceedings had not been 
issued.
I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable for Acromas to decline to cover Mrs 
Gs costs just because the claim was resolved without the need to issue proceedings. 
The solicitors had still carried out pre-action work with a view to issuing proceedings 
after they received instructions from the insurer. And In the course of preparing a 
legal claim for court action, a solicitor would be still be expected to explore all options 
to see if a potential avenue for settling the dispute out of court remained. Indeed, it is 
a requirement of the Civil Procedure Rules for all such avenues to be exhausted 
before court proceedings are issued. If Mrs Gs solicitors had simply ignored the 
option to make a section 75 claim and had simply gone on to issue proceedings 
regardless, Acromas wouldve had to cover their costs and would now be facing a 
much higher bill. The policyholder should therefore not be penalised by having cover 
for their costs withdrawn. Indeed, this would risk disincentivise any alternative dispute 
resolution when a claim is funded by a legal expenses policy and would also be 
contrary to the Civil Procedure Rules. 
Acromas agreed to appoint Mrs Gs solicitors because her claim had reached the 
stage where proceedings would need to be issued. Indeed, the insurer 
acknowledged this much when they sent their terms of business to the solicitor on 
27 August 2019: Under the conditions of the policy, prior to it becoming necessary to 
start court proceedings, there is only cover for costs incurred by our approved 
specialist solicitors. The policy will only cover the fees of the insureds chosen 
solicitor. We note that the case has reached this stage (my emphasis). This was 
effectively giving the green light for the solicitors to begin taking instructions and start 
working on the claim. If the insurer was not prepared for the non-panel solicitor to 
charge for preparatory work, then they should not have agreed to appoint them until 
such time that proceedings had been issued. So, in these circumstances, despite the 
fact that no proceedings were eventually issued, I consider it would be fair and 
reasonable for the insurer to cover the costs Mrs G incurred with her solicitors. 
I note that Mrs G has raised several concerns about the way in which her claim was 
handled. But it seems that she is mostly unhappy with the work carried out by the 
panel solicitors. However, as the investigator has already highlighted, Acromas is the 
legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert dealing with the 
case. As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the claim in light of the 
policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably and 
dealt with the claim fairly. Were unable to consider the quality of service or actions of 
a law firm as this falls under the remit of the Legal ombudsman.
I also appreciate that Mrs G has suffered distress and inconvenience throughout her 
claim, but Im not persuaded it has ultimately been caused by Acromas in its capacity 
as the insurer handling the claim. So, I will not be awarding any further compensation 
in these circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay the reasonable legal costs Mrs G incurred with her chosen solicitor for the work 
they carried out on her claim;
If Mrs G has already paid these costs herself, Acromas should reimburse her directly 
and in addition pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date the 
costs were incurred to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman