DRN-4357473
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Credit Resource Solutions Ltd administered two loan 
accounts in her name. 
What happened
Miss B took out a loan with a business Ill call L for £200 in October 2018 and another for 
£330 in January 2019. Due to arrears, CRS was instructed to collect the outstanding balance 
in December 2019. 
Miss Bs advised that a debt advisory service arranged a debt management plan for her 
outstanding debts towards the end of 2019. Miss B says she made payments to CRS via the 
debt advisory service until August 2022 when her DMP ended and all accounts were repaid. 
In December 2022 CRS contacted Miss B and said she still owed £192.35 for one loan and 
£65.35 for the second loan. In January 2023 and March 2023 Miss B attempted to raise 
disputes with CRS and said the outstanding balance didnt reflect the repayments shed 
made via S. 
CRS issued a final response and said it had been instructed to collect an outstanding 
balance of £257.70 by L for one of the loan accounts. But CRS final response didnt mention 
the other loan. CRS agreed Miss B had attempted to raise disputes and asked for a 
complaint to be raised in January and March 2023. CRS said the information Miss B had 
sent didnt verify the balance was repaid in full and that £65.35 remained outstanding. 
Miss B referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. CRS was 
asked to provide its case file. In its submission, CRS said that an error by a member of staff 
had led to one of the loans being closed despite having an outstanding balance of £192.35. 
CRS added it had taken the decision not to reinstate the loan and that it had written off the 
balance. During the investigation, CRS confirmed it would write off the remaining £65.35 it 
said Miss B owed. 
The investigator upheld Miss Bs complaint and asked CRS to pay her £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the way it had dealt with her disputes. CRS asked to appeal 
and said it had already written off both loan balances which it thought was fair in the 
circumstances. Miss B said that CRS had still failed to verify the amounts it had sought to 
collect after her DMP ended and didnt accept the investigators view. As a result, Miss Bs 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
In response to the investigator, Miss B has told us the despite agreeing not to pursue the 
outstanding balances CRS had failed to explain how it arrived at the amount it said she 
owed. I appreciate Miss B feels the information is unclear. And I can see that the payment 
information shes provided and told us about dont tally with what CRS has said. But Im 
satisfied that CRS has provided statement evidence to support what it said about the 
outstanding balances. So whilst I understand why Miss B wants a more detailed response, 
Im satisfied CRS has already provided all the information it has available to show how the 
amounts outstanding were reached. 
Ive reviewed Miss Bs case as a whole. And given the nature of Miss Bs disputes and the 
way they were handled by CRS, I think the agreement to write off what it says remains 
outstanding is reasonable. Ultimately, that means Miss B is no longer responsible for 
repaying the sums CRS says were owed and no further contact with her will be made. In my 
view, CRS agreement not to pursue Miss B further is fair. 
The investigator also asked CRS to pay Miss B £100 for the way her disputes and enquiries 
were handled by CRS. In January 2023 Miss B first raised the issue with CRS but its 
confirmed it didnt go on to contact L at that time. Instead, CRS asked Miss B to provide 
evidence of her claims. But CRS couldve started the dispute in January 2023 without 
reverting to Miss B. CRSs final response apologised for the service provided. But I think a 
payment of £100 more reasonably reflects the way Miss Bs enquiries have been handled 
and is a fairer way to resolve her complaint. So, in addition to agreeing not to pursue Miss B 
further, Im going to uphold her complaint and award £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Credit Resource Solutions Ltd to 
settle by paying her £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused in addition to agreeing 
not to pursue her for the outstanding balances of the loans. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman