DRN-1936737
The complaint
Mr. T complains that the mileage on a car he obtained through a Personal Contract 
Purchase (PCP) with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), a trading name of Clydesdale 
Financial Services (CFS), was mis represented to him. He would like to reject the car, end 
his agreement and be compensated for paying for a car that wasnt as described.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the reasons reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Mr. T feels, by law, he can reject the car.  We do take relevant law into account but 
we are not bound by it. We look at what is reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint.
Its agreed that the mileage on the contract Mr. L signed was 3,664 miles lower than it 
actually was. The miles on the clock werent adjusted so I think BPFs explanation 
that this was an administrative mistake was reasonable.
Mr. L has told us he specifically wanted a car with less than 26,000 miles on the 
clock although I have no evidence of that. The purchase process document he 
signed doesnt cover mileage. But if Mr. L was particularly concerned about that he 
could have noted that on the document but didnt do so. 
Mr. L did get a document saying it was his responsibility to check the car.  So, if the 
mileage was a particular issue for him, I am surprised he didnt check the mileage 
showing when he got the car, or that he didnt realise until approximately a year later 
there was a discrepancy in the mileage.
BPF has paid Mr. T £150 compensation which I think is reasonable. Also, Mr. Ts 
account has been credited with £351.74. This is to offset any potential future charge 
if he exceeds the annual mileage on the contract as the contract has the lower 
mileage figure on it.  And BPF has confirmed that the guaranteed minimum future 
value of the car would have been based on the lower mileage figure. So, Mr. T hasnt 
suffered any financial detriment
Given I have no evidence of deliberate mis representation or that Mr. T has suffered 
any financial loss I dont feel I can reasonably allow Mr. T to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman