DRN-3551403
The complaint
Ms S complaint is about the service she received from AXA PPP Healthcare Limited in 
relation to her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA sent Ms S a renewal letter on 2 August 2021, and the policy was due to renew 
on 9 September 2021. On 25 August 2021, AXA offered Ms S two months free on 
renewal, but Ms S didnt accept the offer until 6 September 2021. It was too late for 
AXA to amend the direct debit amount so close to the renewal date, but it said it 
would issue Ms S a refund for those two months.
AXA gave Ms S incorrect information on 6 September 2021 when it said it would take 
10 days for her to receive the refund. But AXA did correctly say that Ms S could stop 
the payment being taken in the first place on 9 September 2021 by cancelling the 
direct debit through her bank, whereas it was too late for AXA to cancel it. Ms S didnt 
cancel the payment.
AXA again incorrectly told Ms S on 18 September 2021 that the refund was 
processed on 16 September 2021 and she should receive it on 20 September 2021. 
While the refund was requested on 16 September 2021 according to AXAs notes, it 
wasnt processed until 21 September 2021. I dont think any delays after this are 
AXAs responsibility.
AXA correctly confirmed on 22 September 2021 that the refund had been processed 
the previous day and Ms S should receive it in the next three working days  this was 
the banks process. Ms S says she didnt receive the refund until 27 September 
2021. This was 8 days later than she was originally expecting (19 September 2021 
which was a Sunday).
Its clear that AXA gave Ms S incorrect information on two occasions, which I accept 
was frustrating for her. But it was also clear that AXA was processing the refund, and 
it reassured Ms S of this. I cant see that Ms S has been in any financial difficulty 
because of the delay in the refund.
Ms S was also aware of the cooling-off period and AXA asked her if she wanted to 
cancel her policy, but Ms S didnt do so. So, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to now ask AXA to allow her to cancel her policy outside the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
AXA has apologised about the wrong information it gave Ms S, and it paid her £25 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman