DRN-3581633
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against him. 
Background
In March 2021, Mr Gs account received credits of £2,872.09 and £1,500.00. On the day the 
funds arrived, all bar £1,000.00 of them were withdrawn in cash. The remaining £1,000.00 
was transferred to another account in Mr Gs name. 
Shortly afterwards, Santander received notifications from the banks, which sent the 
payments to Mr Gs account, stating that the payees of the funds had reported being victims 
of fraud. Santander reviewed Mr Gs account, decided to close it and also record a fraud 
prevention marker against Mr G.
Mr G complained about Santanders actions. Santander looked at Mr Gs complaint and 
didnt uphold it. As Mr G remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Gs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr G was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr G allowing someone else to use his account in order to 
receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who 
was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Gs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Gs 
account in March 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr G was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr G told us that he was contacted by someone on social media who hed previously added. 
This person offered Mr G the chance to make some quick money. The person wanted Mr G 
to accept their wage into his account and withdraw the funds in cash and then hand them 
over as their account was faulty. Mr G says he was told hed get £200 to £300 for this 
transferred back into his account after the funds were handed over. Mr G says he believed 
this person as their profile had a very high social media score. Mr G says he never received 
his payment and he didnt retain any of the social media messages. 
Ive thought about what Mr G has said. But even though Ive tried to give him the benefit of 
the doubt, because of his age at the time, Im afraid that there are a number of things which 
simply dont add up and which mean I cant reasonably conclude that he was an unwitting 
participant here. I firstly say this because Mr Gs version of events doesnt tally up with what 
he originally told Santander. I dont think that this, in itself, fatally undermines Mr Gs case as 
it isnt . But Im very concerned that Mr G appears to have provided evidence to try and 
persuade Santander that one of the payments he received was legitimately his.
Secondly, Mr G says he was led to believe that the person he corresponded with was going 
to arrange for their income to be paid into his account. But Mr G would have seen that the 
payments received were from two different payees and as they were received on the same 
day, I dont see how Mr G could reasonably have believed they were someones income.   
Mr G also says that the person he was corresponding with had a faulty account which meant 
they couldnt receive the payments themself. So I would have expected him to question how 
this person would be able to subsequently transfer him the £200 to £300 he says he was 
promised in these circumstances. Finally, Mr G also says that all of the funds were 
withdrawn and handed over to the person. But Mr Gs account statements clearly show that 
this wasnt the case, as £1,000.00 was transferred into another account in his name too.    
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr G being unable to provide anything at all to 
corroborate what, on the face of things, appears to be an implausible version of events 
means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think 
its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account. And bearing in mind what 
Ive said above, Im also satisfied that Santander was also reasonably entitled to conclude 
that it was more likely than not Mr G was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think 
that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that 
it did. I now turn to the closure of Mr Gs account. I think its worth me explaining that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Gs account permitted Santander to close it where it was used in any way 
to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already 
explained why I think Santander was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Gs account 
had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording 
the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Mr Gs account. And Im therefore not upholding   
Mr Gs complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr G  especially given what hes said about 
the impact the marker is having on him. But even allowing for Mr Gs age at the time, I cant 
ignore the fact that he appears to have been complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope Mr G 
will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman