DRN-2695028
The complaint
Mr D complains that he cant close his account with Revolut Ltd (Revolut).
What happened
Mr D had an account with Revolut since 2017. In 2018, Revolut made changes to their app. 
Mr D couldnt use Revolut as a result. He wanted to close his account but couldnt.
Mr D complained  because Revolut changed its software requirements for its app, he 
couldnt use Revolut anymore. He tried to withdraw the balance over time using his debit 
card  but the card expired. So, he decided to close his account. But this wasnt possible as 
he couldnt do this using the app. So - Revolut asked him for ID using email. He said this 
wasnt a secure method of sending such documents  so he refused to do this.
Revolut said that they couldnt change their systems so that Mr D could use his device. But 
without being able to use the app, they could close Mr Ds account if he sent them, by email, 
his personal details, as well as a selfie of himself with a legal document (such as a passport 
or driving licence).  
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said this service couldnt tell Revolut to 
change his processes and systems  thats not our role. He considered that Revolut had 
provided reasonable options to Mr D to close his account.
Mr D asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sense Mr Ds frustration. He wanted to deal with Revolut but couldnt when they 
changed the requirements for their app. So, he decided he couldnt bank with them anymore 
 but couldnt close his account because he didnt want to send his ID to them by email  as 
he said this wasnt a secure way of doing that. 
I can see that over a long period of time, Mr D had tried to resolve his issues with Revolut. 
Equally, Revolut have stated to him what their processes are for closing an account, given 
that Mr D couldnt use the app. They wanted him to send them ID using an email. Mr D said 
to Revolut  and to us  that was not a reasonable thing to do because it wasnt secure. 
We looked at Revoluts terms and conditions, and they say at clause 6: "You can close your 
account, and so end this agreement, at any time by letting us know. You can do this through 
the Revolut app. by writing to us at our head office or by emailing us at 
feedback@revolut.com. 
And at clause 7.1 they say:
 You agree to cooperate with all requests made by us or any of our third-party service 
providers on our behalf in connection with your Revolut Account, to identify or authenticate 
your identity or validate your funding sources or Revolut Transactions. This may include, but 
not limited to, requesting further information that will allow Revolut to reasonably identify you, 
including requiring you to take steps to confirm ownership of your phone number or payment
instruments or verifying your Information against third party databases or other sources.
So  when Revolut asked Mr D to send his ID by email, they were acting within their terms 
and conditions.
Our role is, as a complaint resolution service, is to decide on disputes between customers 
and firms  and ensure that fair outcomes are reached between them. We are not the 
regulator of those firms  so we cant tell them how to run their business, or how to design 
and implement their processes. The normal way of dealing with Revolut is via their app  
thats their business model, and thats how they run their bank - and we cant interfere with 
their commercial decisions. And similarly, we wont interfere with their processes and 
operations - including how they ask customers to close an account.
Ive seen that Revolut gave Mr D options to send them his ID  theyve tried to help. Mr D 
thinks those options arent reasonable  but theres nothing more this service can do to 
resolve whats happened here. Mr D is clearly frustrated by what he sees is an impasse. And 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision here  which is that I wont be asking 
Revolut to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman