DRN-1978954
The complaint
Mr E says Evergreen Finance London Ltd  trading as MoneyBoat (MoneyBoat) - 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr E between October and 
December 2019.  The loan amounts ranged between £800 and £1,400 and Mr E needed to 
repay these loans over several months with repayment ranging between £396 and £421 per 
month. At the time of writing this decision, loan 3 is outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint and thought the loans from loan 1 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because the information MoneyBoat had gathered about Mr E 
showed he was having problems managing his money because he had significant debts 
when he was given the first loan. 
MoneyBoat disagreed. It said its checks were proportionate given the early stages of the 
lending relationship. It also said it would be unrealistic to review every line of a credit file 
prior to lending. It asked for the complaint to be decided by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     Mr 
E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Es 
complaint from loan 1. Ill explain why.
MoneyBoat has said the before it agreed to lend to Mr E it carried out an income and 
expenditure check, an affordability check as well as a credit reference check. It has given us 
a copy of those checks. At loan one its recorded that Mr E was employed and earning a 
monthly income of £5,160. His monthly expenses including housing costs and food etc were 
£2,335. This left Mr E with a monthly disposable income of nearly £2,825 and the monthly 
repayment for loan 1 was £396.14. So, on the face of it the borrowing would seem affordable 
on a pounds and pence basis. 
But MoneyBoat has also provided us with a copy of a credit report it obtained at the point of 
Mr Es first loan application. And I think the information contained in that report would 
suggest Mr E was having problems managing his money. As explained by the adjudicator 
there were numerous outstanding debts from credit cards and secured loans. Mr E also had 
an expensive hire purchase credit  as well as mortgage debt. There was also evidence he 
had at least one delinquent account. All of which suggests that Mr E using other types of 
credit and was having problems managing his money. 
MoneyBoat has told us it would be unrealistic to review every line of a credit file prior to 
lending. And particularly at the early stages of a borrowing relationship. But I disagree. 
MoneyBoat was already in receipt of that information about Mr Es financial circumstances. 
And I think it should have used that information it was already in receipt of when considering 
whether it should lend to Mr E. The evidence given in that report suggested that Mr E was 
having problems managing his money and bearing in mind the number of other accounts he 
had, the lending looked unsustainable. 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 3 and MoneyBoat should put things 
right. Putting things right
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt MoneyBoat should buy it back if MoneyBoat is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat cant buy the debt back, then 
MoneyBoat should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything MoneyBoat has already refunded.
B) MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mr E which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr E having made 
overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr E. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr E. MoneyBoat 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal MoneyBoat has already written-
off.
E) MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in 
relation to loans 1, 2 and 3. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Es complaint. Evergreen Finance London Ltd should put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman