DRN-2938694
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to 
process its claims under the Direct Debit indemnity scheme and unfairly changed the 
process for making claims. It also complains about delays. 
What happened
F operates between small businesses and large corporate service providers, paying the 
providers on behalf of its small business customers. As such, it has a large number of active 
direct debits (DDs). 
Sometimes, the large corporates make errors in originating these DDs and F is incorrectly 
debited. Because of the volumes involved, these errors are not discovered immediately, but 
only come to light when an audit is carried out. 
F opened its bank accounts with Barclays in 2016. At that time, it says it discussed these 
DDs with its relationship manager (RM). It says it explained that it would need to make 
frequent DD indemnity claims and agreed a process for doing so with the RM. 
After some initial problems, F says this process worked smoothly and around 40 claims were 
successfully paid between 2016 and 2018. After that, things ground to a halt and F says it 
currently has 46 unpaid claims outstanding, totalling around £185,000. 
F complained to the bank in August 2020. The bank acknowledged there had been delays 
between March and August 2020 caused by the RM not forwarding Fs claims. It apologised 
and paid F £200 in compensation for this. 
Barclays processed Fs outstanding indemnity claims, but didnt accept most of them. 
Instead, the bank requested further written evidence to confirm the claims were valid. F says 
this evidence isnt obtainable for these claims. 
F referred its complaint to our service. It said Barclays hadnt treated it fairly and had moved 
the goalposts without notice. It wanted the bank to refund the amounts of the outstanding 
claims immediately. 
One of our investigators looked into Fs complaint, but didnt uphold it. In summary, he 
thought that Barclays were entitled to ask for more information and said that the £200 
compensation for the 2020 delay was fair. 
F disagreed with our investigators view. It said that:
it was unreasonable for Barclays to change its process for claims dating back to 2018 
the RM had agreed an approach to processing the indemnity claims, which Barclays 
had abandoned without informing it
Barclays had moved the goal posts in around July 2018
Fs employee had spent many hours emailing and phoning the bank without any 
response 
it was impossible to obtain written evidence for claims so old 
the amounts involved were vitally needed to keep Fs business afloat. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be a disappointment to Fs representatives. I realise that F is 
a small business deprived of vital cashflow and I sympathise greatly with the position in 
which it finds itself. But my role is to decide whether Barclays has done anything wrong. Id 
like to explain why Ive concluded that the bank hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
F and the bank disagree about whether an agreement was ever reached to process Fs DD 
indemnity claims in a certain way. F says there was a clear agreement to follow a defined 
process. Barclays says there was never any such agreement, and no such agreement would 
be possible due to the nature of the DD indemnity scheme. 
Where there are disputes like this, in the absence of written evidence, I need to make a 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I must decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened. In this case, I am not persuaded that a contractual agreement ever 
existed. I dont doubt that informal discussions took place about the most efficient way to 
submit claims. But I think if a formal agreement had been reached, then it is more likely than 
not that it would have been documented in some way.
I also agree with Barclays that this is an externally regulated scheme, subject to rules that 
are outside Barclays control. For this reason, I think it unlikely that Barclays would have 
committed to the arrangement described. 
My conclusion is therefore that Barclays hasnt breached or reneged on a commitment. 
Next Ive considered whether the bank has treated its customer fairly and communicated in a 
way that is fair, clear and not misleading. Ive looked at the terms of the DD indemnity scheme, which, as I mentioned, is run by a third 
party. These terms confirm that a bank is entitled to request additional information if it 
considers it needs to do so to assess the validity of a claim. 
F is firmly of the belief that the goalposts have been moved without notice. It says this 
because some of its pre-2018 claims were processed smoothly and then, at some point in 
2018, Barclays started asking more questions. It is entirely possible that the bank tightened 
up some of its procedures. But I think Barclays was always entitled to require more 
evidence, even if it didnt previously choose to exercise that right. 
There is a lack of agreement as to what happened in 2019. F says it was trying to get things 
moving but to no avail, while the bank has shown that it sent at least 18 letters to F 
requesting further information to evaluate outstanding claims. The bank says it didnt receive 
the evidence sought, so it was unable to process any refunds. F doesnt dispute receiving 
these requests. Therefore, Im satisfied that the bank was fulfilling its obligations and 
processing claims. The claims were then stalling in the absence of further information. 
F also says that the bank failed to respond to its attempts to get in touch to resolve things. I 
accept that some of this may have been by phone, but I havent seen any evidence of the 
bank ignoring F. I can see that there were sometimes short gaps before the RM responded, 
but the real problem seems to have been that F didnt like the answers it was getting. For 
example, after the bank issued its final response to the complaint and then closed the 
complaint, F requested it be reopened. Barclays agreed to do that, but then reiterated the 
same answer, which was that it needed more evidence from F before it could pay the claims. 
F clearly does not agree.
The bank and F seem to have been at an impasse since around November 2020, when 
Barclays reconfirmed its position that it couldnt consider the claims without further evidence. 
I appreciate that F has ended up in what feels like a very unfair position: It has been 
deprived of material sums it says it is owed. But I dont think this is because Barclays has 
treated F unfairly. I think the bank has been communicating with F and has made clear what 
it requires, and I dont believe it has been acting unreasonably in making those requests.
I can see evidence from the banks records that things ground to a halt in early 2020. Whilst 
the pandemic may well have been a factor, the bank has accepted that it was at fault for the 
delays and paid compensation of £200 to cover the inconvenience caused. I think this sum is 
fair compensation for the delays in processing these specific claims from March 2020. Given 
that in the case of these claims, like the others since 2018, the bank has since said it needs 
further evidence, I dont believe if submitted they would have been paid any earlier. So I 
dont think the delay caused F any direct loss.  
It may be that the fundamental problem here is that the purpose for which F wishes to use 
the DD indemnity scheme isnt achievable, given the banks need to be satisfied that it is 
meeting all its obligations under the scheme. As F says it is impossible for it to obtain the 
written evidence required by the bank from the DD originators, it is my view that F may have 
to seek its funds back directly from the large companies concerned rather than through the 
scheme.
I know F will be disappointed by this outcome, but I have seen no reason to require Barclays 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28th March  2022. 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman