DRN-2662405
The complaint
Mr F complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) shouldnt have agreed to lend
to him under a conditional sale agreement (agreement). He says the agreement was
unaffordable.
  
What happened
Mr F entered into an agreement in early 2016 so that he could obtain a used car. The cash
price of the car was £6,995. The agreement was for 48 months with a total repayable of
£12,389.20. Mr Fs monthly repayments were £263.60. Mr F repaid his agreement in full in
early 2020 having paid Moneybarn £12,641.20 - £6,995 in capital, £5,394.20 in interest and
£252 in charges.
Mr F says Moneybarn didnt do enough to check that he could afford to repay the
agreement.
Moneybarn says it checked Mr Fs credit file and two payslips that Mr F supplied during the
application. It said these didnt highlight any concerns about affordability.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld and that the lending was indeed unaffordable. He then went on to explain
what Moneybarn should do to fairly compensate Mr F.
Mr F responded to say that he agreed with the investigators view. However, Moneybarn
didnt respond and so for that reason the complaint was passed to me for review and
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in February 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. This includes, amongst other things, having regard to Moneybarns 
regulatory obligations under the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC says that lenders need to carry out checks to ensure any lending it gives is 
affordable and sustainable for the borrower. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check should be borrower-focussed. This means 
Moneybarn needed to think about whether Mr F could afford the borrowing, not just 
how statistically likely he was to repay it back.
The thoroughness of the checks Moneybarn carried out needed to be proportionate 
to the situation. In deciding what was proportionate Moneybarn ought to have 
considered the following (but not limited to):
The size and duration of the loan;
The overall cost of the borrowing and the size of the repayments; and
Mr Fs personal circumstances.
This loan was for four years with a total repayable of over £12,000. I think this was a
significant commitment for Mr F. The monthly repayments were also over £250 which 
was a not insignificant proportion of Mr Fs declared monthly income. Mr F was also 
not putting down any of his own funds towards the car. So, I think the thoroughness 
of the check Moneybarn carried out ought to have reflected the significant 
commitment Mr F would be undertaking over a relatively long period of time.
To assess whether Mr F could sustainably afford to repay the loan Moneybarn says it
reviewed his two payslips and completed a credit check. It says the credit check 
didnt highlight any concerns. Weve asked Moneybarn to provide us with the data it 
received from the credit check, but it says this isnt available. This means I cant be 
sure what information Moneybarn reviewed in order to assess Mr Fs current financial 
position  other than the two payslips he supplied.
Mr F has provided us with a copy of his credit report. So, in the absence of anything 
from Moneybarn to show what data they saw, I think its reasonable to conclude the 
information contained in the report Mr F has supplied was likely to be available to 
Moneybarn.
This credit report shows that in the year prior to the agreement taking effect Mr F had 
taken out seven payday loans and had a county court judgement registered against 
his name for approximately £1,000.
It also shows that in the four months following the agreement taking effect Mr F had 
three further court judgements registered against his name totalling approximately 
£3,000. Now I accept that these judgements wouldnt have shown up on 
Moneybarns credit check, but I think that at least two of the debts would have been 
recorded at the relevant time as being delinquent or in default on Mr Fs credit file.In my view the above should have been enough to have prompted Moneybarn to 
have undertaken further checks. Now its not my role to say what further checks 
Moneybarn should have undertaken, but its my understanding that had it, by way of 
example:
requested sight of, and considered the content of, Mr Fs bank statements
completed an income and expenditure form with Mr F
its likely that it would have discovered that Mr F couldnt afford the agreement.
Moneybarn was required to carry out appropriate and proportionate checks and for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont think it did. And had it carried out proportionate 
checks, I dont think it ought to have lent to Mr F. Ive therefore gone onto consider 
what a fair remedy would be.
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to keep any interest or charges paid by Mr F under the agreement. 
However, given that Mr F has had, or appears to have had, uninterrupted use of the 
car during the term of the agreement and that he was able to retain possession of the 
car once the agreement came to an end, I think its only fair that Moneybarn should 
be able to keep all the capital payments paid by Mr F of £6,995.
This means that Moneybarn should reconstruct the account with an opening balance 
of £6,995 and deduct from this sum the payments made by Mr F with no interest or 
charges being debited. It should then refund to Mr F any payments made over and 
above the sum of £6,995 together with 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
To assist both parties its my understanding that:
between 1 April 2016 and 1 May 2018 Mr F made 26 payments totaling 
£6,708.80 which would leave a debit balance, against an interest and charge 
free opening balance of £6,995, of £286.20
on 28 July 2018 Mr F made a payment of £323.60 which would leave a credit
balance, against an interest and charge free opening balance of £6,995, of 
£37.40
between 28 August 2018 and 28 January 2020 Mr F made 20 payments 
totaling £5,608.80 which would leave a credit balance, against an interest and 
charge free opening balance of £6,995, of £5,646.20 (£37.40 plus £5,608.80)
As Ive concluded that Mr F shouldnt have been given the borrowing, it isnt fair for 
him to have any adverse information recorded on his credit file about this debt. 
Therefore, Moneybarn should arrange to remove any adverse data it may have 
registered with credit reference agencies in respect of the agreement.
Mr F responded to my provisional decision to say that he had nothing further to add.
Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional by the date given.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Moneybarn didnt respond and given that Mr F confirmed he had nothing further to add I 
see no good reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
  My final  decision is that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must:
Refund all payments made against the agreement over and above £6,995 to Mr F
together with 8% simple interest per year from the date of each payment to the date
of settlement*.
Remove any adverse data recorded in respect of the agreement with credit reference
agencies.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take tax off this interest.
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if
Mr F asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman