DRN-3722925
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In November 2021, Mr H received a payment of £340 into his Monzo account. Monzo 
subsequently received a fraud notification from a third-party bank saying that one of its 
customers had been the victim of a purchase scam. 
As result of this Monzo carried out an investigation. The result of which saw it write to Mr H 
and inform him that it would be closing his account with immediate effect. It then went on to 
register a fraud prevention marker against him. 
After learning that Monzo had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him, Mr H 
complained to Monzo. Monzo looked at Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
enough to show that Mr H was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Mr H. Monzo didnt respond so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of a fraud or financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Mr Hs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr H allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Hs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Hs account and that he was complicit in this. 
Its important to note Monzo had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it to 
have acted fairly and reasonably. 
Having considered matters, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that, Monzo received a  
fraud notification from a third-party bank explaining that its customer had been scammed into 
sending payments to Mr Hs account in November 2021. So I can understand why Monzo 
had concerns about the usage on Mr Hs account. However, as Ive already explained, this in 
itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention marker against a customer. Monzo also has 
to produce sufficient evidence to show Mr H was complicit in fraud. And I dont think that it 
has done that here.
Mr H has explained that the payment into his account was for items hed sold. Hes provided 
an extensive amount of information demonstrating that he did sell items. And hes also 
provided messages exchanged with someone interested in buying the item he says he was 
selling. It also looks like Mr H was asked to send the items to a different name and address 
to where the funds were coming from.  And, in my view, this is indicative of the fact that he 
may potentially have been the victim of a scam himself, as its possible the payee of the 
funds wanted to keep the items and get their money back too. 
I appreciate that Monzo says it received subsequent notifications of fraud regarding other 
transfers. But again these appear to relate to buyer seller disputes involving goods and Mr H 
has provided extensive evidence demonstrating that he was selling items, I dont think that 
this in itself necessarily meant that the November 2021 transfer was fraudulent, or that it was 
fair and reasonable to reverse the initial conclusion that Monzo reached and instead record a 
fraud marker.
Finally, Ive considered Monzos arguments that Mr H was making crypto-currency transfers 
from his account. But as I understand it these transfers were to an account in his name. And 
they were quite a few more transactions that didnt correspond to any notifications of fraud. 
So Im not persuaded that Mr Hs use of a crypto-currency platform means that he was 
engaged in fraudulent activity either.  
Of course, I accept it is possible that Mr H was complicit in fraudulent activity. And as Ive 
explained, that was enough for Monzo to be suspicious or concerned. But the important 
thing here it that is Monzos responsibility to demonstrate that Mr H knowingly and 
dishonestly participated in fraudulent activity, rather than it being the case that Mr H and 
someone else were involved in a buyer seller dispute. Monzo needed to have relevant and 
rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the police. And, in my view, what it 
has provided just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case seeing 
as Mr H has provided a reasonable and plausible alternative version of events here.   
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo didnt (and still 
doesnt) have sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr H was involved in fraudulent 
activity. As this is the case, I think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did and Im therefore upholding Mr Hs complaint. Monzo needs to remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Mr H and also 
pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should 
remove any fraud markers it has recorded against Mr H and pay him £150 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman