DRN-2705189
The complaint
Mr W complains that Towergate Financial (East) Limited (trading at the time as M2 
Financial) failed to treat him fairly when it provided advice about the potential transfer of 
pension benefits in December 2007. 
What happened
Mr W was a deferred member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). The OPS wrote to 
Mr W to suggest that he might consider transferring his pension benefits from the OPS to a 
private pension. At that time the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of his pension 
benefits was valued at £12,539. But the OPS offered to enhance that CETV by the payment 
of an additional sum of £17,374. Or it offered to pay the enhancement to Mr W as a cash 
lump sum when the transfer was completed.
Mr W sought advice from Towergate about the proposal hed received.  It appears that the 
initial contact with Towergate was facilitated by Mr Ws former employer, although neither it 
nor the OPS paid for that advice to be provided. 
Towergate undertook some analysis of the proposal Mr W had received from the OPS. The 
results of that analysis led Towergate to advise Mr W that it wouldnt be in his best interests 
to transfer his pension benefits away from the OPS, even after taking account of the 
enhanced CETV the OPS was offering. And it was even more clear from that analysis that it 
wouldnt be in Mr Ws best interests to accept the transfer and be paid the enhancement as 
a cash lump sum.
But the advice report that Towergate provided to Mr W also explained to him that he could 
choose to request Towergate to facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis. It provided 
Mr W with a declaration to sign, and asked that he also provide a supporting letter explaining 
why he was choosing to proceed against the advice it had given him.
Mr W returned both those documents to Towergate, and a further meeting was arranged. 
Towergate gave Mr W a further advice report, underlining its advice that he shouldnt 
transfer his pension benefits. But following further confirmation from Mr W of his wishes, it 
arranged for the OPS to transfer Mr Ws pension benefits to a personal pension and for the 
enhancement amount to be paid to Mr W as a lump sum. Mr W explained that he intended to 
use that money towards the purchase of a second property.
In 2017 Towergate agreed with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, that it would 
review the advice it had provided to a number of clients in relation to transfers from this 
OPS. Mr W was offered, and accepted, a review of the advice hed received. Although 
Towergate identified some inaccuracies in its calculations from the time, it didnt think those 
would have led Mr W to reach a different conclusion about becoming an insistent client. So 
the review didnt suggest Towergate needed to do anything further.
Mr W was unhappy with the outcome of the review  he was aware of other former 
employees that he said had received similar advice from Towergate, and had been 
compensated as a result of the review. Looking back he didnt think that Towergate had 
treated him fairly when the advice had been given, and he said that knowing what he knew 
now, he wouldnt have asked to transfer his pension benefits.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by two of our investigators. In the first assessment the 
investigator thought that Towergate had failed to treat Mr W fairly  he thought that 
Towergate had failed to provide Mr W with sufficient accurate information and that it 
over-emphasised how Mr W could disregard its advice. 
But following further submissions from Towergate another investigator reconsidered the 
complaint. He thought the original assessment had been incorrect. He thought that any slight 
errors in the information Towergate had provided to Mr W would have made no difference to 
the decision he made. And he didnt think Towergate had been wrong to deal with Mr W as 
an insistent client. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with the second assessment. He couldnt understand why former 
colleagues in similar positions to his had been awarded compensation. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Towergate. 
The advice Mr W is complaining about was provided almost 15 years ago. Whilst I am sure 
that Mr W has given us his complete and honest recollections of what happened, I have to 
be mindful that over such an extended period of time even the most careful of memories 
can, and do, fade. So where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr W has said that he was verbally advised that he should transfer his pension benefits 
during the meetings he had with Towergate. But without any recording, or contemporaneous 
records of those conversations providing evidence that is what happened, it is difficult for me 
to conclude that was the case. The advice documents that Towergate provided gave a very 
clear recommendation that Mr W should not transfer his pension benefits. So I would expect 
that, had the advisor verbally recommended that Mr W transfer his pension savings, the 
difference between that advice and the written report would have been something that Mr W 
would have explored in far more detail, and perhaps documented in the letter he 
subsequently sent to Towergate asking it to proceed with the transfer.I understand that shortly before the transfer took place Mr W had been made redundant. So 
it seems entirely plausible that he would have found the payment of an additional lump sum 
to be very attractive at that time. Of course taking that lump sum would mean that his 
pension benefits at retirement would be much reduced. But given Mr W was only 37 years 
old at that time  and so some way off retirement  it wouldnt be unreasonable to conclude 
that his financial priorities were in the near term, rather than at retirement.
The analysis that Towergate performed looked at the investment returns Mr W would need 
to achieve on any transferred pension benefits in order that a personal pension would match 
those benefits hed receive from the OPS. That analysis suggested  based on Mr W retiring 
at 60 as hed said was his intention  that the personal pension would need to grow at 7.9% 
if the additional contribution was added to the pension savings, or by 12.2% if it was taken 
as a cash lump sum. And even if Mr W decided not to retire until the OPS retirement age of 
65 his personal pension would need to grow by at least 6.6% per annum.
It is important to remember that, in strict financial terms, any transfer of pension benefits 
would be in the expectation that the transferred benefits would be worth more than if theyd 
been left in the OPS. A transfer moved the investment risk for the pension benefits from the 
OPS to the consumer. So the figures I have quoted above would need to be exceeded  not 
just met  in order to make a transfer attractive.
So I think it was entirely right that Towergate provided a recommendation to Mr W that he 
should not accept the offer of a transfer from the OPS to a personal pension.
I have considered that, immediately after making that recommendation, Towergate provided 
Mr W with the opportunity to ignore its advice. In some circumstances that might be 
considered to be less than best practice. But I think Towergates actions were mitigated by 
the way in which it expected Mr W to act before becoming an insistent client.
Towergate left a copy of its recommendation report with Mr W for him to consider. It then 
asked him, if he still wanted to proceed, to provide a handwritten letter setting out his 
reasons for rejecting its advice. I can see that Mr W wrote that letter around a month later in 
January 2008. And following receipt of that letter Towergate provided a second 
recommendation report  reiterating its advice that Mr W shouldnt transfer his pension 
benefits  before meeting again with Mr W to discuss his financial situation.
So I am satisfied that Mr Ws decision to ignore the advice Towergate had provided was not 
as a result of any pressure that the firm had placed on him by requiring a quick answer, or by 
it providing him with misleading or incomplete information. Whilst, with the benefit of 
hindsight, Mr W might not now think he made the best decision in 2008, I dont conclude that 
was as a result of something that Towergate did wrong.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr W, particularly given he is aware of 
other former employees receiving compensation following their transfer of pension benefits 
from the OPS around the same time. But I must decide this complaint on the specific facts of 
Mr Ws circumstances and the advice Towergate gave to him. It isnt usually helpful to draw 
any conclusions from other individuals whose circumstances might be entirely different. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman