DRN-3291956
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Zopa Limited (Zopa) incorrectly applied a default to her account.
Mrs F has been represented. For clarity, Ive only referred to Mrs F throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mrs F borrowed £7,000 by way of a fixed sum loan agreement with Zopa in November 2019. 
Under the agreement, Mrs F was required to make 60 payments of £211.55. 
In April 2020, Mrs F let Zopa know she had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Zopa 
placed a three month hold on collections. This was extended for a further three months in 
June 2020. Following this, it was agreed Mrs F could make reduced payments of £100 
towards her loan for three months. Mrs F made payments of £100 up until February 2021. 
Zopa didnt receive payment towards the agreement in March 2021 and so it issued a notice 
of default. But Mrs F had been in communication with Zopa and had sent it an income and 
expenditure breakdown. Unhappy with this, Mrs F complained to Zopa.
Zopa issued its response to Mrs Fs complaint in March 2021. It apologised for the errors it 
had made and also said it claimed July 2020s contractual loan payment, when it shouldnt 
have. It arranged to waive arrears of around £650 from Mrs Fs account balance. It also said 
it could set up a three month reduced payment plan, so Mrs F could pay £50 a month from 
April 2021, but this would be reflected on her credit file. It said before the payment plan 
ended, Mrs F would need to contact it to set out her circumstances again and it would 
consider a further reduced payment plan for a maximum of three months. Mrs F has not 
referred this complaint to this service.
In July 2021, Mrs F sent Zopa an income and expenditure form. Zopa says it tried to contact 
Mrs F, but it wasnt able to contact her. As it didnt receive a payment to the account that 
month, it sent Mrs F a default notice. It said her loan account had arrears of around £700, 
which she needed to pay before a certain date. It said if she didnt make the payment for the 
arrears, then the agreement may be terminated. Zopa didnt receive any payments from   
Mrs F by the date set out in the default notice, so it issued a formal demand for payment and 
it terminated the agreement. The following day, Mrs F contacted Zopa and complained.
Zopa issued its response to Mrs Fs complaint in August 2021. It agreed it had incorrectly 
defaulted Mrs Fs account, despite her trying to set up a further repayment plan with it. It said 
it had agreed to extend Mrs Fs payment plan for a further three months. But Zopa said it told 
her if she wasnt able to resume her contractual payments and pay the remaining arrears 
over a period of time after the payment plan had ended, her account could be defaulted 
again. It said if Mrs F was able to resume her contractual payments after the payment plan 
had ended, then it would remove the default. It said if Mrs F wasnt able to do this, she may 
wish for the default to remain as it would be more beneficial for her. It apologised and offered 
Mrs F £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs F asked Zopa to remove the default, as she was hopeful shed be able to pay the loan 
repayments after the three month payment plan had ended. She said she disagreed with the 
compensation because Zopas service hadnt improved since her previous complaint was 
upheld, so she thought a payment of £175 was more suitable. 
Zopa looked into this and said when it looked into Mrs Fs previous complaint, it agreed to 
waive arrears of around £650 and it agreed to an extended reduced payment plan which 
was outside its usual parameters. It said it had attempted to contact Mrs F on multiple 
occasions before the loan was defaulted, but it agreed to increase its offer of compensation 
from £50 to £100 towards her outstanding balance.
Unhappy with this, Mrs F referred her complaint to this service. She said she had difficulty 
paying her loan due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. She said she tried to set up a 
new payment plan and contacted Zopa, but its responses were slow and it defaulted her 
account. She said after she complained, it agreed to remove the default and pay £100 
towards her outstanding balance. But she disagreed and said it should pay her £175 directly.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but said that once Zopa became aware that it 
made an error, it resolved things without delay. So she said that the £100 offered by Zopa 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs F disagreed. She said Zopa said it would adjust the balance she owed instead of paying 
her any compensation directly, she didnt receive any calls from Zopa as it had suggested, 
despite Mrs F requesting it emailed her and Zopas handling of the matter was poor.
Our investigator responded and said Zopa had now agreed to pay compensation to Mrs F 
directly and she said system notes showed that Zopa did attempt to contact Mrs F on a 
number of occasions. So, she didnt think Zopa should pay Mrs F any further compensation.
Mrs F disagreed and said she felt more compensation should be paid to her, as £100 didnt 
take into consideration the impact of Zopas actions on her. 
As Mrs F disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mrs F has had a previous complaint with Zopa and details of this complaint have been 
provided as part of this complaint. However, Mrs F isnt complaining about the outcome of 
her previous complaint in March 2021 or the actions of Zopa at the time. So this decision will 
only focus on the merits of the complaint she made to Zopa in August 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs F has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In this case, both Mrs F and Zopa agree that Zopa made an error when it sent Mrs F a 
default notice in July 2021. This is because it agreed to set up an extended repayment plan 
if Mrs F required this after a previous payment plan ended. It accepts Mrs F contacted it to 
arrange this, but it says it wasnt able to speak to her to discuss this. Because both parties 
agree that Zopa made an error, what I need to decide in this case is whether Zopa has done 
enough to put things right.
Ive looked at the system notes that Zopa has provided. I can see that Zopa tried to contact 
Mrs F five times by phone after it issued the default notice in July 2021 and it also emailed 
her twice and sent her a text message. It didnt hear from Mrs F, so it applied a default to her 
credit file in August 2021. 
I can see that Mrs F contacted Zopa the following day and around eight days after it initially 
applied the default, Zopa accepted it had made an error and agreed to remove the default 
from Mrs Fs credit file. I dont think it caused any delay here. So Ive considered the impact 
of Zopa applying a default to Mrs Fs credit file for around eight days. 
Having done so, I think the offer Zopa has already made - to pay Mrs F £100  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because between Zopa issuing a notice of default and applying a default to the account, there was no contact to it from Mrs F. So I 
dont think she was distressed or inconvenienced during this period of time, as she appears 
to have been unaware of the default notice. However, I do think she was caused some 
distress when she received notice that a default had been applied, due to the implications of 
having a default reported to a credit file. 
I can see that Zopa initially agreed to pay Mrs F £50 compensation to resolve her complaint. 
But this was increased to £100 following Mrs F telling it she felt £175 was a more suitable 
amount. Zopa also said it would credit this amount to Mrs Fs loan balance. But I think it 
should have agreed to pay any amounts for compensation directly to Mrs F, rather than 
removing this from her outstanding loan balance, when it made this offer. So I dont think it 
acted fairly when it told Mrs F it would credit the amount to Mrs Fs loan balance. I can see 
that since the complaint has been referred to this service, Zopa has clarified it will pay its 
offer to Mrs F directly.
Mrs F has also said she told Zopa that her preferred communication method was email. And 
she says Zopa ignored this. But Zopa initially emailed Mrs F the default notice. It didnt hear 
from her, so it tried to call her. When it did this, it wasnt able to complete its security 
process, but Mrs F said she was abroad and her husband would call Zopa. He didnt do this. 
So Zopa sent Mrs F a text message the same day. And it emailed her again to let her know it 
had sent her an important notice. 
I note Mrs Fs preferred communication method was email, but Zopa attempted to contact 
Mrs F through this method and didnt receive a response from her. So it tried other ways to 
contact her. Having thought about this, given that Mrs Fs account was at risk of being 
defaulted at the time, I dont think Zopa has acted unreasonably as it wasnt getting a 
response from Mrs F and so it attempted other ways to contact her.
Overall, I dont think Zopa needs to increase its offer to pay Mrs F £100 and I think this offer 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Zopa Limited has already made an offer to pay Mrs F £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Zopa Limited should pay Mrs F £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman