DRN-3294049
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to turn down a claim for 
storm damage he made on a home insurance policy he holds jointly with Mrs J.
All references to UKI include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr J raised a claim on his policy with UKI for damage to his property. He said the damage 
was caused by high winds during a storm and consisted of render that had blown away from 
the side of the property.
UKI said it couldnt be shown the storm was the primary or effective cause of the damage to 
the render. It said that it was more likely that the render had become water damaged and 
loose over time, and that the wind highlighted the problem.
Mr J was unhappy with UKIs decision and complained. UKI responded and maintained its 
position to turn down the claim. It added that if Mr J wanted to dispute its findings, he needed 
to provide a cause of damage report. 
Mr J wasnt happy with UKIs response and referred the matter to our service. In summary 
he said:
The burden of proof on him to show an insured event happened was too high and 
conversely, UKIs reasons for turning down the claim were based on a very low level 
of proof.
UKI didnt rely on any site investigations or expert opinions to turn down the claim.
That the cracking of the render could be considered a one-off event.
Hes provided photos and a building contractors report of the damage which is 
sufficient for the claim to succeed.
To put things right, Mr J asked for reimbursement of the building contractors invoice, and 
£1,000 for the distress and inconvenience of dealing with the claim.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that the evidence provided by Mr J wasnt sufficient to show how the wind had 
been able to loosen the render, or that it didnt have any defects already. And they 
concluded it was reasonable for UKI to request evidence to show the storm was the main or 
dominant cause of the damage  when in its experience this type of damage is not likely 
caused by a one-off event.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
addition to his previous comments he said in summary:
He didnt agree that he had to prove the storm was the main cause of damage in line 
with our services general approach.
That UKI had relied on the only reason which would enable it to turn down the claim, 
because it was the cheapest option.
That unless it could be shown categorically that the damage wasnt caused by a 
storm, any other outcome should be determined in his favour.
That the wind must have been the main cause of the damage.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to determine what exactly caused the render to fail, but rather, to decide if UKIs 
decision to turn down the claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. UKIs position 
is that it hasnt been shown that a one-off storm caused the damage being claimed for, so 
there isnt an insured event for it to cover. And that the damage happened gradually.
I acknowledge Mr J has provided some detail about what exactly he thinks caused the 
render to fail, but the crux of the issue is that hes unhappy UKI turned down the claim. And 
he says the damage was caused by storm conditions and wasnt gradual.
Ive read Mr Js concerns about the application of our approach to complaints involving 
damage by storms. But having considered everything, Im satisfied that this is the fair and 
reasonable test to apply in this situation. 
This is because, if the insurer answers no to any of the questions we ask, this means that 
either there isnt an insurable event for it to cover, or, it has shown it can fairly rely on an 
exclusion within the policy terms and conditions to turn down the claim. 
The three key questions we consider in the circumstances of a storm claim are:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of damage?
To answer these questions, Ive considered the call Mr J made to UKI, along with the photos 
of the damaged render, and the invoice from his building contractor. And Ive also checked 
the local weather records from around the time of the claim. 
Both parties accept there were high winds of approximately 55mph around the time of the 
claim, which could be classed as storm level winds. So the first question isnt in dispute here. 
The photos provided by Mr J show a portion of render at the bottom of the first-floor level has 
broken off. Mr Js view is that the wind increased in speed as it got obstructed by the 
building, and this force was sufficient to pull the render off the structure. UKIs view is that 
correctly applied render would be bonded to the structure and wouldnt break down unless in 
exceptional circumstances.Ive thought about both points carefully, but on balance, I am more persuaded by UKIs view, 
so I conclude that the damage to the render isnt consistent with what Id expect to see from 
a storm.
I accept theres a degree of subjectiveness as to what is or isnt considered typical storm 
damage. So, in order to give Mr J the benefit of the doubt, Ive also considered the third 
question about whether the storm was the main cause of damage.
On this point, Mr J believes the damage was the result of strong winds and not any other 
cause. UKIs view is that the wind highlighted a longstanding issue where rainwater had got 
trapped between the rendering and the wall, causing it to come loose over a period of time.
Having carefully considered everything, I am more persuaded that the storm wasnt the main 
cause of damage. The evidence here is limited. But the invoice from Mr Js building 
contractor doesnt explain how the wind managed to cause the damage claimed for render, 
which shouldve been applied to resist all but the worst weather conditions. In other words, 
Im not persuaded that a wind speed of 55mph was sufficient to remove the render without 
any other intervening cause (such as an underlying defect).  
Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that the damage happened 
over time as opposed to suddenly failing. So, I find UKI has assessed the claim fairly on the 
available evidence  as the policy doesnt cover gradual damage  and I wont require it to 
do anything further. And as such I think it is reasonable for UKI, as the insurer, to ask for 
further evidence of the cause of damage before it reviews its position.
I acknowledge Mr Js comments that UKI didnt carry out any site investigations, and had 
they been done it would have most likely provided more definitive evidence to support the 
outcome for the claim either way. And I appreciate that Mr J feels very strongly about what 
caused the render to fail. Ive carefully considered everything hes said on this point. But, in 
the overall circumstances, I find the evidence presented is sufficient to show the damage 
cannot be reasonably attributed to a single one-off storm event.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman