DRN-3412257
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt with a claim 
under a buildings insurance policy.
References to Fairmead include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr C contacted Fairmead to make a claim for storm damage. Fairmead asked Mr C to 
provide a surveyors report to show the cause of damage, photos of the damage and repair 
estimates. Mr C provided evidence to support his claim about four months later. 
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster, who reviewed the claim and didnt identify an insured 
peril, so said there wasnt any cover. Mr C was asked to provide further evidence if he still 
thought there was an insured peril. Mr C had problems finding a surveyor but, about six 
months later, submitted a surveyors report, which said there was evidence of storm 
damage. Fairmead appointed a surveyor. Mr C chased on several occasions to get updates 
on the claim and for it to progress. He also told Fairmead the ceiling had collapsed in the 
living room. By the time Mr C complained to Fairmead, its surveyor was in discussion with 
contractors about the scope of repairs.
When Fairmead replied to Mr Cs complaint, it said there were delays internally about 
receiving instructions for the claim. It offered £100 compensation.
Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said some delays 
were due to the time it took Mr C to provide the reports. However, once these were received 
it still took Fairmead a further eight months to accept the claim and this included some 
avoidable delays. He also said Mr C was living in some distressing conditions, which 
Fairmead should have been aware of, so it should have offered alternative accommodation 
during that time. Fairmead should also have paid invoices more promptly. However, as there 
wasnt contents cover in place, he didnt think Fairmead needed to cover the cost of furniture 
that had been damaged. He said Fairmead should pay £750 compensation, which included 
the £100 it had already offered.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr C first contacted Fairmead to make a claim, he was asked to provide evidence to 
show the damage was covered by the policy. Mr C provided evidence four months later. 
Shortly after the documents were received, Fairmead arranged for a survey to take place to 
assess the claim further. Following this, the surveyor concluded that there wasnt evidence 
to show the damage was the result of a one-off storm event. Having looked at the surveyors 
findings, I think that was reasonable. 
The surveyor also suggested to Fairmead that it might be possible to cover some of the 
internal damage if Mr C had accidental damage cover. However, the policy didnt include 
accidental damage cover. Mr C was told that if he could provide evidence to show the 
damage was the result of a peril insured under the policy, Fairmead would consider the 
claim further. About six months later, Mr C provided a report that said the damage was likely 
to be the result of a storm. So, from what Ive seen, I dont think Fairmead was responsible 
for delays up until this point. 
Im aware Mr C has said Fairmead could have done more to help him with his claim. Its for a 
policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. When Mr C first made 
the claim, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to have asked Mr C to provide further 
evidence. When this was provided, Fairmead arranged for a survey to take place, but this 
didnt find evidence of an insured event. So long as Fairmead carried out an appropriate 
investigation at that time, which in my view it did, it wasnt required to keep investigating the 
source of the damage. Mr C was told he could provide a report about the cause of the 
damage if he wanted Fairmead to consider this. I think that was reasonable.
Following receipt of Mr Cs report, Fairmead considered this. Im aware Fairmead then took 
eight months to accept the claim. Looking at what happened, I can see that it carried out a 
further survey as a result of the report. However, there then seemed to be a number of 
avoidable delays, including having to chase internally on next steps for progressing the 
claim. By the time Fairmead replied to Mr Cs complaint, it had started discussions with 
contractors and was starting to draw up a scope of works. So, I think Fairmead could have 
accepted the claim much earlier and progressed the claim sooner than it did. 
Mr C has also said the delays meant his contents and furniture were damaged. Mr C didnt 
have contents cover under the policy, so Fairmead said this damage wasnt covered as part 
of the claim. But, Ive thought about whether Fairmead should cover the damage due to the 
delays in the claim. Mr C has said the damage started from when he first contacted 
Fairmead to make a claim and over the months that followed. Ive already said that I dont 
think Fairmead was responsible for the delays during that period, so I also dont think it was 
responsible for any damage to the contents that happened during that time. 
Mr C said the damage then got worse in the months before the claim was accepted. But, Im 
not persuaded this meant Fairmead needed to pay for damage to the contents. I also note 
that some of the internal damage, such as the wooden flooring, would normally be dealt with 
as part of the buildings. Fairmead has also told this service it will consider the wooden 
flooring as part of the claim, so I wont comment on this further.
So, Ive thought about compensation. Ive seen videos and photos of the condition of the 
property. I should note its my understanding that some of the videos were taken after the date of Fairmeads response to the complaint and Im only looking at the period up until the 
date of that response. However, I can see that Mr C was living in very difficult conditions and 
Im aware he used buckets and tarpaulins to try and prevent water from damaging his home. 
Ive already said I think there were avoidable delays during the claim. Mr C had to regularly 
chase Fairmead in order to get updates and for the claim to progress, which I think will have 
caused him distress. I think Fairmead also could have discussed Mr Cs living conditions 
with him sooner than it did, including the option of alternative accommodation. Fairmead 
should have been aware of the condition of the property earlier than it seemed to be, as Mr 
C provided them with updates about this. So, I think Fairmead could have done more earlier 
than it did to respond to Mr Cs difficult living circumstances.
Mr C also sent Fairmead invoices for payment, but he had to chase to get these paid. Some 
of the invoices were submitted after the date of this complaint, but I can see that Fairmead 
told this service that due to an oversight it didnt pay the first invoice as promptly as it should 
have. I think this will also have added to Mr Cs concerns about the handling of the claim and 
caused him further inconvenience.
Having thought about this carefully, I think Fairmead should pay a total of £750 
compensation, which includes the £100 it already offered, as I think this more fairly reflects 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C due to the issues with the handling of this 
claim, including the delays caused by Fairmead and it not following up on alternative 
accommodation as early it could have done.
Putting things right
Fairmead should pay Mr C £750 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £750 compensation, which includes the £100 it 
previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman