DRN-3013796
The complaint
Mrs P complains about U K Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim under her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P has a pet insurance policy underwritten by UKI, which she bought in November 2020.
In March 2021, she made a claim and asked UKI to cover the cost (£400) of a nasal 
resection operation for her dog.
UKI declined the claim. They said the condition which made the operation necessary was a 
pre-existing condition  stenotic nares, or in laymans terms, narrow nostrils. They said there 
was an exclusion in Mrs Ps policy relating to treatment for conditions which pre-existed the 
taking out of the policy.
Mrs P made a complaint to UKI, but when they maintained their position, she brought the 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important first of all for me to set out the facts on which I think everyone is agreed.
Before she agreed to purchase her dog, Mrs P took him to the vets for an examination. This 
was on 5 November 2020.
Its recorded in the vets notes  and reported by Mrs P herself  that the vet said the dog 
has narrowed nostrils. This is not uncommon in this particular breed of dog.
Mrs P tells us  and I have absolutely no reason to doubt her  that the vet said the condition 
was mild and that no intervention was necessary at the time. Indeed, the vets notes say:
General exam nares are only mildly stenotic
After the examination, Mrs P went ahead and confirmed the purchase of her dog. And she 
took out the insurance policy with UKI the following day.
In March 2021, Mrs P decided to have her dog neutered after a visit to her vet. She says the 
vet suggested that since the dog was having a general anaesthetic, she could carry out a 
nasal resection at the same time. Mrs P agreed to this and the operation was carried out in 
April 2021.
Mrs Ps policy says that UKI wont cover:
Any claims in connection with or arising from any pre-existing condition.
Pre-existing conditions are defined as:
Any condition or symptoms, or sign of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any 
form before the pet was covered by this insurance
These terms arent unusual in pet insurance policies. Theyre set out clearly in the policy 
documents, which are available to customers before the buy the policy. And theyre not 
inherently unfair or unreasonable. It goes without saying that you cant reasonably expect to 
insure against an event or occurrence after its happened.
I dont believe Mrs P or UKI would disagree with any of the facts Ive set out so far. So, the 
only question I have to consider in making this decision is whether the operation carried out 
on Mrs Ps dog in April 2021 was for the same condition (narrow nostrils) identified by her 
vet in November 2020.
I know this will disappoint Mrs P  and I am sorry that her dog has had to undergo this 
treatment  but I think its very clear that the operation was to address the same condition 
noted by the vet in November 2020. 
To put it as simply as I can, the dogs nostrils are too narrow. Thats what the vet said in 
November 2020 and its why the operation was carried out in April 2021.
I fully appreciate Mrs Ps point that the vet clearly didnt think the operation was necessary  
or advisable  in November 2020. Or at any of the subsequent vet visits in late 2020 and 
early 2021, which were primarily for vaccinations.
However, conditions can get worse over time. Which might mean they require more  or 
more radical - treatments. But it doesnt alter the fact that they remain the same underlying 
condition. 
Nothing new has happened to Mrs Ps dog between November 2020 and April 2021 to make 
the operation necessary or advisable. The dog hasnt suffered any accident and theres been 
no new disease. He had narrow nostrils in November 2020 - and the operation in April 2021 
was to rectify that problem.
Its not clear from the vets notes whether the condition had in fact gotten worse. Or whether 
she felt the operation was advisable given that the dog was having a general anaesthetic 
(which always carried a certain risk) in any case and it might be best to get out of the way at 
the same time an operation which was likely to be required in future.
Its also not clear from the veterinary notes whether the vet warned Mrs P in November 2020 
that the condition might worsen and that an operation might be possible / likely in future. 
Of course, what the vet said or didnt say at either of those points in time isnt UKIs 
responsibility. And Im satisfied UKI havent treated Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably in any 
way when they declined her claim for this treatment. 
The decision to decline the claim is in line with the policy terms and conditions. And those 
terms and conditions are not unusual or unfair and were quite clear from the outset.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman