DRN-2678340
The complaint
Ms M has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline her claim under her employers
group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M was a member of her employers group income protection insurance policy, held with
Unum. The policy, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, would pay benefit if Ms M were
unable to perform her occupation because of illness or injury.
In January 2019, Ms M stopped working due to back pain. In February 2019, Ms M made a
gradual return to work while undergoing investigations into the cause of the pain. Ms M was
eventually diagnosed with endometriosis and underwent a laparoscopy in June 2019. She
had still not resumed full-time hours when the deferred period ended some three or four
weeks later in July 2019. Her employer therefore made a claim under the policy on Ms Ms
behalf.
In August 2019, Unum declined the claim. It said that the clinical expectation was that it
would take two weeks to recover from a laparoscopy and it noted that Ms M had significantly
reduced her medication and increased her levels of function following the procedure. This
being the case, it didnt see why Ms M couldnt have returned to her full time duties and
hours by the end of the deferred period.
Ms M appealed against Unums decision. She provided a letter from her consultant
gynaecologist, Dr G, which said that her recovery from the procedure could take up to three
months.
In October 2019, after obtaining Ms Ms updated medical records, Unum maintained its
decision to decline the claim. It said Dr G had provided no clinical justification for why Ms M
should require an extended recovery period and, in any case, she had already demonstrated
a level of function far in excess of Dr Gs medical expectation.
Ms M complained to Unum about its decision. She provided additional medical evidence in
support of her claim.
In November 2019, Ms M resumed full-time working.
Unum didnt respond to Ms Ms complaint within eight weeks and so she referred her
complaint to us.
In February 2020, after the complaint had been referred to us, Unum issued a final response
letter. After reviewing all the evidence, it still considered that by the end of the deferred
period Ms M had been capable of returning to work on a full-time basis and the reason she
had not done so was not because of any limitations imposed by her medical condition but
rather because her employer had agreed to make things easier in terms of her commute. It
therefore maintained that it had been correct to decline her claim. It nonetheless agreed on a
goodwill basis to pay her proportionate benefit from the end of the deferred period in
July 2019 until she resumed full-time working in November 2019. It also offered to pay £150
compensation for its service failings, such as delays, in its handling of her claim.
In March 2020, after reviewing the matter further, Unum issued a further final response letter
which went into more detail in addressing the evidence which had been provided by Ms M.
However, Unum still maintained it had been correct to decline the claim. It confirmed its offer
to pay proportionate benefit on a goodwill basis until the time Ms M resumed full-time
working in November 2019 and confirmed it would add interest to these benefit payments at
an annual simple rate of 8%. It also offered to increase the compensation for its service
failings to £300.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I considered the complaint should be upheld. 
My findings were as follows:
To clarify, although Unum declined Ms Ms claim, it agreed to pay her the benefit she would
have received under the policy, plus interest, on a goodwill basis. The issue to determine is
whether Unum should, in fact, have accepted the claim. As Ms M has pointed out, this is
more than an academic exercise because it could have implications for a future linked claim.
Ms M is also still unhappy with the compensation offered of £300.
The policy user guide states:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial 
duties of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
It further states:
Monthly benefit payments become payable when a member's incapacity continues 
past the end of the deferred period.
In practice, the deferred period can be Periods where because of illness or injury 
a member works part time or on restricted duties or in a lower-paid role
If an illness or injury prevents a member from working in their own role for the 
normal number of hours but they work part time or on restricted duties or in a lower-
paid role, we will pay benefit at a reduced rate. We call this proportionate benefit
Im satisfied from this that if Ms M was unable because of illness or injury to work on a full-
time basis for a period of 26 weeks, and was thus not performing the material and
substantial duties of her occupation, she would become eligible for proportionate benefit.
The user guide also goes on to explain that if a claim is terminated because an employee is
no longer incapacitated but within a year they again become incapacitated, it can be treated
as a linked claim and so there is no need to serve a further 26 week deferred period. As
noted above, this means it is potentially significant as to whether Unum formally accepts the
claim as opposed to merely agrees to pay it on a goodwill basis.
The medical evidence is extensive and I recognise that Ms M has gone to a lot of work in
making her submissions to Unum and us.
The relevant period for the purposes of assessing Ms Ms claim is from 4 January 2019
(when she stopped working) to 5 July 2019 (when the deferred period ended). However, the
focus is really on the latter end of that period. In particular, Unum thinks that two weeks after
the laparoscopy which took place on 10 June 2019, Ms M should have been sufficiently
recovered to have been able to resume full-time working. Unum thus considers that Ms Mshould have returned to full-time working during the last ten days of the deferred period
whereas Ms M says she remained unfit to do so during this period and beyond.
Unum based its decision initially on the fact that two weeks was the normal clinical
expectation for a recovery from this type of procedure and furthermore Ms M had
significantly reduced her analgesic medication and increased her level of activity. Based on
the information available to Unum at the time, I consider this was a reasonable decision.
Ms M appealed against this decision and provided a letter from Dr G in which he said her
recovery could take up to three months. After obtaining updated medical records, Unum
maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said that Dr Gs letter gave no rationale as to
why Ms Ms recovery would need to be extended and his opinion seemed at odds with her
demonstrated level of ability. Again, I consider this was a reasonable decision for Unum to
make based on the available information at the time.
Ms M complained to Unum and provided further information. This included a letter from Dr G
in which he said the following:
Recovery following a routine laparoscopy procedure is normally two to three weeks
depending upon the surgery that is performed. However, in this case, extensive 
surgery was performed and also the condition of endometriosis itself is not cured by 
surgery and ongoing symptoms may cause the patient considerable morbidity. The 
patients who suffer endometriosis do have chronic pain and it is rare that a 
laparoscopic procedure will completely eliminate all symptoms.
In this case, [Ms M] required time to recover not just from the effects of surgery but 
also the continued effects of her endometriosis. This required a phased return to 
work (approximately seven weeks). This in my opinion would be entirely in keeping 
with not just the recovery from the surgery performed but also the management of 
her ongoing symptoms of endometriosis.
I recognise that following the procedure Ms M had stopped taking prescribed analgesics and
had increased her working hours. But she has explained that she only wanted to take the
prescription drugs for the minimum period of time for which they were clinically necessary
which I consider is understandable. And I dont consider she should be penalised for her
efforts to get back to work. Pain is clearly a subjective matter but I consider that Dr G, as her
treating consultant, was best placed to offer an opinion on how Ms Ss condition was likely to
impact on her ability to work. In light of Dr Gs letter, alongside the other medical evidence in
support of Ms M including from her GP and her employers occupational health consultant,
I consider that Unum at this stage should reasonably have accepted her claim.
Unum instead maintained its decision to decline the claim, though it nonetheless agreed to
pay benefit on a goodwill basis. Although it will not change the amount of benefit which is
due to Ms M, I consider that Unum should amend its records to show that the claim was
accepted in line with the terms of the policy.
Unum has acknowledged that there were delays and poor communication when it was
dealing with Ms Ms claim. The investigator considered that Unums offer of £300 
compensation for these service failings was fair. However, this was on the basis that Unum
had acted correctly in declining the claim. As explained above, I consider that after Ms M
had made her complaint, Unum should reasonably have accepted her claim. If it had done
so, it would have spared Ms M the further trouble of pursuing her complaint through us. In
view of this, I consider that Unum should increase its offer of compensation to £400.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.Ms M accepted my provisional decision.
Unum said that due to the time which had elapsed since Ms M made her complaint, it had 
been able to check with her employer and to confirm that she had not become incapacitated 
again within 52 weeks of when she returned to work in November 2019. This meant she 
wouldnt have been able to make a linked claim and thus hadnt suffered any financial loss. 
On that basis, it asked that I reconsider my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has provided no defence of its decision not to accept the claim. It has simply asked 
me to reconsider my decision in light of the fact that its wrongful declinature of the claim has 
apparently been shown to have resulted in no financial disadvantage to Ms M.
I remain of the opinion for the reasons given in my provisional decision that Unum should 
have accepted Ms Ms claim and not simply paid her benefit on a goodwill basis. I therefore 
consider that Unum should record her claim as eligible, even if this no longer has any 
practical effect as far as Ms M is concerned.
I cant see how the fact that, in retrospect, we know Ms M would not have been able to make 
a linked claim has any impact on my award for trouble and upset caused to Ms M by Unums 
service failings. I still consider that Unum should pay Ms M £400 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Unum Ltd to accept Ms Ms claim. I further require Unum to pay Ms M £400
compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused her (though it may deduct any amount
it has already paid in this regard).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman