DRN-3407735
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a 
claim on his home emergency insurance.
What happened
On 15 September 2021 Mr L had a problem with his boiler, leaving him with no hot water. He 
called RSA to make a claim on his home emergency insurance. RSA arranged for a heating 
engineer to visit, but the problem wasnt fixed. 
Over the next two days Mr L chased RSA for updates. On 17 September 2021 RSA made 
an appointment for the engineer to return in three days time. The engineer then fitted a 
replacement part, which resolved the problem.
Mr L complained about the length of time it had taken RSA to fix the fault and their lack of 
communication about what was happening. RSA apologised for failing to contact Mr L earlier 
on 17 September 2021, but they didnt think this had impacted the way theyd handled his 
claim overall. They said the delays in getting the fault fixed had been outside their control. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls claim had been delayed due to an error by RSA. Although 
RSA failed to update Mr L on 17 September 2021, he didnt feel this had impacted the claim. 
He felt the apology RSA had offered was fair, so he didnt ask them to do anything more. 
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He said he shouldnt have had to chase 
RSA when hed paid them specifically to deal with this kind of urgent and stressful situation. 
And that having to make calls about this had taken up his time and caused him stress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance insurers must follow, 
which can be found in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). These rules 
include a requirement to handle claims promptly and fairly. Ive considered the way RSA 
handled Mr Ls claim with this in mind. 
Delay in getting the fault fixed
The evidence Ive seen shows RSA sent one of their approved engineers to Mr Ls home on 
the day he reported the fault, but it wasnt a straightforward matter that could be fixed 
straight away. Ive reviewed RSAs claim notes to see whether they couldve progressed 
things more quickly after that initial visit. 
RSA contacted the engineer for an update and quotation on 16 September 2021. I think they 
acted reasonably here, chasing progress as wed expect. The engineer reported the fault to 
be a complex issue due to a voltage drop. He said the boiler needed a new printed circuit 
board (PCB), but he couldnt be sure that this would fully resolve things. He agreed to send a 
quotation.
RSAs notes show they assessed the engineers quotation early the following morning. They 
decided to check whether Mr L would prefer a fixed price repair, which they felt may be 
beneficial if the engineer discovered other faults after the new PCB was fitted. But Ive noted 
a delay of several hours before they spoke to him about this. 
RSA have told us that this delay in contacting Mr L didnt affect the journey of his claim 
overall, because they needed to order the part before an appointment could be made for it to 
be fitted. Theyve highlighted the relevant section of their policy, which says: we are not 
responsible for any loss, damage or inconvenience resulting from a delay in obtaining or 
receiving delivery from the relevant supplier of any spares. 
The evidence Ive seen shows the engineer couldnt go back with the required part until 20 
September 2021. For this reason Im not persuaded that Mr Ls boiler wouldve been fixed 
more quickly if RSA had contacted him earlier on 17 September 2021. And so, although I 
realise how inconvenient and stressful the situation must have been for Mr L while his boiler 
wasnt working, I cant say RSA caused unnecessary delay in getting it fixed.
Lack of communication
Having sent an engineer out to assess the fault, Id expect RSA to contact Mr L the following 
day to advise him of the next steps. RSAs claim notes confirm that Mr L called them on 16 
September 2021 for an update. Ive seen nothing to suggest RSA wouldnt have updated Mr 
L if he hadnt chased them that morning, so Im unable to say they did anything wrong here.
I appreciate Mr L was anxiously waiting to hear from RSA as to when the boiler problem 
would be resolved. I agree that RSA shouldve called him earlier on 17 September 2021 to 
discuss the repair. RSA have already offered Mr L an apology, which I think is fair and 
reasonable for the stress and inconvenience caused by having to call them again. So, I wont 
be directing RSA to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. I realise Mr L will be 
disappointed with this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman