DRN-3566709
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, charged him for a 
money transfer which he didnt ultimately need.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr M completed a money transfer from his Virgin credit account to his 
personal current account. The amount of the money transfer was £5,650, and the money 
transfer incurred a fee of £226. 
In early January 2022, Mr M telephoned Virgin and advised hed returned the £5,650 to his 
Virgin account as he hadnt needed it as he thought he would. Mr M asked for the £226 fee 
to be reimbursed to him, given that hed returned the money within the 14-day cooling off 
period. The Virgin agent to whom Mr M spoke didnt agree that the terms of a 14-day cooling 
off period had been met, and so didnt agree to reimburse the charge. Mr M wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Virgin looked at Mr Ms complaint. They explained that the 14-day cooling off period only 
applies to the opening of an account, whereby the account holder has 14-days within which 
to request the closure of the account as if it had never been opened. Virgin also confirmed 
that there is no 14-day cooling off period that applies to money transfers as Mr M believed. 
However, Virgin did feel that the service Mr M had received from them hadnt been to the 
standard that they aspire, including that Mr M had to wait a long time for telephone calls to 
be answered, and that he didnt receive a call back from Virgin as hed been promised. As 
such, Virgin apologised to Mr M, and credited £75 into his account as compensation for any 
trouble or upset he may have incurred.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Virgin had 
already issued on Mr Ms complaint, including the non-upholding of his complaint about the 
money transfer charge and the £75 compensation paid for the service issues, already 
represented a fair and reasonably resolution to this complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that when Mr M spoke with Virgin on the telephone that the agent 
with whom Mr M spoke did explain that they felt Mr M had made the request outside of any 
14-day cooling period that might have applied. I can therefore understand why Mr M might 
have been led to believe that a 14-day cooling off period was applicable to the money 
transfer that hed made. And given that Mr M had had difficulty getting in touch with Virgin, 
and that the Virgin agent that Mr M spoke with believed the Mr M had exceeded the 14-day 
cooling off period by just one day, I can appreciate why Mr M would have been frustrated.
But it seems apparent that the agent to whom Mr M spoke made a mistake when referencing 
a 14-day cooling off period on this instance. This is because its clear from the terms and 
conditions of the account that no such cooling off period applies to money transfers. Instead, 
the 14-day cooling off period applies to the opening an account, whereby if a new account 
holder requests for the account to be closed within the 14-day cooling off period, it will be 
closed as it was never opened, and wont be reported to that persons credit file.
As such, given that money transfers dont benefit from a 14-day cooling off period, Im 
satisfied that it was never the case that Mr M would have been entitled to receive a 
reimbursement of the charge that was applied to his account as a result of his making the 
money transfer that he did. And while I acknowledge that the Virgin agent made a mistake 
by wrong referring to such a cooling off period, I dont feel that this mistake does fairly or 
reasonably mean that Virgin should provide such a cooling off period in this particular 
instance, as Mr M has suggested should be the case.
However, its clear that Mr M didnt receive the standard of service that he reasonably ought 
to have expected when dealing with Virgin including that he was wrongly led to believe that 
a 14-day cooling off period applied to his money transfer.
Mr M has explained to this service that he attempted to contact Virgin on several occasions 
but that he was unable to get through due to the lines been busy and the long holding times 
that resulted from this. Virgin have confirmed that they have record of Mr M attempting to 
contact them the day before he eventually was able to speak with them, but that after 
inputting his verification details and being advised via automated message of the long hold 
times present at that time, he ended the call.
Virgin have accepted that Mr M was inconvenienced by the busy telephone lines and the 
long hold times, and also that he didnt receive a call back as promised. And theyve 
apologised to Mr M for this and credited £75 to his account. This seems reasonable to me, 
and I feel that the £75 compensation that Virgin have already paid to Mr M does provide a 
fair and reasonable resolution to the service aspects of his complaint  including that Mr M 
was wrongly led to believe that a 14-day cooling off period might apply to his money transfer. 
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Virgin have already issued to    
Mr Ms complaint, as described above, already provides a fair outcome to that complaint. 
And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Virgin to take 
any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman