DRN-2858603
The complaint
Mr A complains that the damage charges when he returned his car to Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (Mercedes) are unfair.
 
What happened
In April 2017, Mr A acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement from Mercedes. He 
returned the car to them in 2021 towards the end of the agreement, and the car was 
inspected by Mercedes at this point. The report produced for Mercedes in March 2021 said 
that all 4 alloy wheels were scuffed outside of acceptable levels, and there was a charge 
payable of £110 per wheel, so £440 in total. 
Mr A complained to Mercedes about this, saying that the wheels were in the same condition 
as the wheels on previous cars he had returned to Mercedes, including the one before this 
car in 2017, and no charge was made on those occasions for damages.
Mercedes investigated and rejected his complaint, saying that the damage evident on the 
inspection photos and video was outside of the vehicle return standards, which had been 
provided to him when he took out the agreement, and had also been resent to him 6 months 
prior to the end of lease date. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He said he felt the 
charges were unfair and wanted us to compare his previous vehicle return details, but said 
Mercedes were refusing to provide him with the old inspection report for the previous car. 
An investigator here investigated the case and did not uphold Mr As complaint. They said 
that the damages were outside of the permitted amount in the vehicle return standards and 
as such, the charges were fair. They said that they appreciated that Mr A wanted us to 
compare the damages to the previous cars he had returned, but this wasnt something they 
could consider as they could only assess whether the charges applied in this case were fair, 
and previous cases wouldnt be relevant to this. 
Mr A didnt agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to review the case and make 
a final decision. He felt he was disputing something different; the fact that Mercedes have 
changed their terms and conditions from his previous agreement which isnt fair. They didnt 
judge similar wheels to be damaged outside of acceptable levels previously, so he didnt feel 
it was fair that they could change this view now. He also said that if they dont wish to 
remove the unfair charges, they may want to consider reducing them to a reasonable 
amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A is concerned about Mercedes changing their terms or the application of those terms on 
this agreement he signed in 2017. The agreement in 2017 is a completely separate 
agreement however from anything previous. Its not a continuation of a previous contract, 
and it sets out its own terms and conditions. 
There are many reasons why Mercedes might not have charged for damages previously, 
including different levels of damage, different terms and conditions, a gesture of goodwill, or 
not inspecting the car properly or in a timely fashion when it was returned. Whilst any of 
these might have happened, none have any impact on this agreement and these damage 
charges in question in 2021. This agreement stands alone, and Mercedes must act fairly in 
line with the terms and conditions of this contract now, irrespective of any previous decisions 
or agreements.  
Mercedes would be entitled to change the terms of their contract, provided they gave Mr A 
the details, and provided that any terms and conditions are fair. I am satisfied they provided 
Mr A with the full vehicle return standards in 2017, so I am focused on ensuring that these 
2017 terms are fair and seeing whether they have been applied correctly and fairly. 
The relevant section to this complaint in Mr As contract is the section detailing the expected 
vehicle return standards. In the terms provided to Mr A when he took out the agreement, 
Mercedes said that unacceptable standards for alloy wheels when a car is returned include:
Scuffs, chips and scratches exceeding 25mm
Alongside reviewing Mercedes vehicle return standards, I have also considered the industry 
guidelines for these types of charges, which are set out in the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA) Fair Wear and Tear Guide. In this guidance, it actually says 
that:
Scuffs up to 50mm of the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable. 
Alongside this, Mercedes have updated their vehicle return standards now, which are 
available online, to confirm that:
minor scuffing or damage under 50mm to the vehicle alloy rim edge or wheel face is 
acceptable. 
Im satisfied that the fair measure therefore would be whether any individual alloy wheel has 
scuffs or scratches exceeding 50mm of the alloy wheel edge or wheel face. And I am 
satisfied that this is in line with general industry guidelines and in this instance, is a fair 
measure of damage on returning the car at the end of its agreement. 
On examining the photos provided from the inspection report, they show considerably more 
damage than 50mm on each wheel. The person carrying out the inspection has held a card 
with measurements to each wheel to show the extent of the damage. I am satisfied that each 
wheel falls well outside of the 50mm acceptable level of damage laid out in the vehicle return 
standards and the BVRLA guidelines. 
Whether or not Mr A has previously returned a car with similar damage and not been 
charged is unfortunately not relevant to this agreement. The damage to these wheels falls 
well outside of both Mercedes standards, and also industry wide guidelines and 
expectations. 
The vehicle return standards were laid out in the agreement Mr A accepted in 2017, and 
they were provided to him again before the end of his agreement. This meant that if he wanted to carry out any remedial work himself, he had the opportunity to check the return 
standards and to arrange the work he felt was necessary. 
The final thing I have considered is whether the charge of £110 per wheel is fair, as Mr A 
has said that if they want to charge for the wheels, they might consider reducing the 
charges. 
I have looked at prices being charged to other customers by Mercedes and also the similar 
charges from other companies in the wider industry, and I cant say that charges of £110 per 
wheel are unfair or excessive in the circumstances. Some businesses are slightly more 
expensive and some slightly less expensive, but these charges dont feel unfair. 
Mercedes also publish their charging matrix online, so I can see that these charges are in 
line with the charges applied by Mercedes for other consumers at the end of their hire 
agreements. 
As such, I cant say Mercedes have done anything wrong here. Mercedes have provided Mr 
A with the vehicle returns standards when he took out this agreement, and again before he 
needed to return the car. The details are also available online. 
I am satisfied that the charges raised for scuffed/damaged alloy wheels are fair, and in line 
with both Mercedes return standards, and wider industry guidelines. As such, I wont be 
asking Mercedes to do any more here.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I am not upholding this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman