DRN-3513239
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) terminated her agreement. 
What happened
Mrs T entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to acquire a used car in 
September 2019. 
Mrs T fell behind with her repayments and entered an arrangement with VWFS in November 
2021 to bring her account up to date. 
On 1 December 2021 VWFS wrote to Mrs T to tell her the arrangement had been broken 
due to non-payment. They said she needed to pay the full arrears balance of £726.03 within 
seven days. 
On 18 December 2021 VWFS sent Mrs T a default notice, which set out that she needed to 
pay the arrears by 6 January 2022, or they might terminate the agreement and recover the 
vehicle. 
VWFS contacted Mrs T to discuss a separate complaint at the beginning of January 2022. 
During this call, VWFS agreed to reduce the balance of Mrs Ts arrears and told her that her 
next payment would be due in February, and the arrangement to pay would be set up again 
on the new arrears balance. 
VWFS have since said the information provided on this call was incorrect, as Mrs Ts next 
monthly payment was due on 28 January 2022. 
VWFS sent Mrs T a number of text messages and an email asking her to contact them about 
her account between 29 January and 28 February 2022. They didnt receive a response and 
they terminated the agreement in March 2022. 
Mrs T complained to VWFS in March 2022. She said shed been told no payment was 
needed until February, and shed asked for all correspondence to be sent by post. 
VWFS sent Mrs T their final response to her complaint in March 2022. They apologised that 
Mrs T had been given incorrect information during the call in January, but they said the 
agreement had been fairly terminated in line with the notice they sent in December 2021. 
VWFS said theyd asked Mrs T to contact them, but she hadnt replied. They didnt uphold 
Mrs Ts complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs T brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said the 
wrong information given in the call in January 2022 led to the termination, and it couldve 
been avoided if VWFS had contacted her by post as shed asked them to. Mrs T explained 
she doesnt check her emails often due to caring responsibilities, and post was easier for her 
to deal with. 
Our investigator gave his view that the default notice was in line with regulatory 
requirements, and he thought VWFSs attempts to contact Mrs T were reasonable, given the 
urgent nature of the situation. He didnt think VWFS needed to do any more. 
Mrs T didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mrs T was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) sets out in section 87(1) that a default notice is 
necessary before the creditor is entitled to terminate the agreement or recover the goods.  
Section 88 of the CCA sets out that the default notice must; 
Specify the nature of the alleged breach 
If the breach is capable of remedy what action is required to remedy it and the date 
before which that action is to be taken
If the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach, and the date before which it is to be repaid. 
Mrs T didnt keep to an arrangement to repay her arrears, and VWFS issued a default notice 
to Mrs T in December 2021. That notice set out that Mrs T was £726.03 in arrears on the 
agreement, and that a further payment was due on 28 December 2021. The notice said Mrs 
T needed to clear the arrears by 6 January 2022, and if she didnt, they might take further 
action such as terminating the agreement and recovering the vehicle. 
Im satisfied that the default notice was in line with the CCA requirements. 
When Mrs T spoke to VWFS in January 2022, they told her that her next payment would be 
due in February, but this wasnt the case, her next payment was due on 28 January 2022. 
VWFS have said they made an error on this call and have apologised for it. 
When Mrs Ts payment wasnt made at the end of January 2022, VWFS sent her text 
messages on 29 January, 9 February, 16 February  and 23 February 2022 asking her to 
contact them to discuss her account, but Mrs T didnt respond. 
VWFS sent Mrs T an email on 28 February 2022 which explained that she needed to contact 
them before 3 March 2022 to discuss the account, because the deadline on the default 
notice had expired and the arrears hadnt been paid. The email set out that the agreement 
was at risk of being terminated. 
Mrs T has explained that she asked VWFS to contact her by post, because she finds it 
difficult to respond to emails due to caring responsibilities. Ive thought about this, and whilst 
I understand that Mrs Ts preferred method of contact was post, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for VWFS to contact her by the methods they did, due to the urgency of the 
situation. Whilst I agree that Mrs T was given incorrect information in the phone call in January 2022, I 
think VWFS gave Mrs T the opportunity to receive and respond to one of their methods of 
communication before they ultimately decided to terminate the agreement. 
The agreement sets out in section 10 termination that VWFS will be entitled to terminate the 
agreement on expiry of the required notice if Mrs T is in breach of the agreement. 
Mrs T was in arrears on the agreement, so she was in breach of the payment requirements. 
Im satisfied that VWFS sent Mrs T a valid default notice, and that the agreement allowed 
VWFS to terminate it when this notice expired in January 2022. Im satisfied that VWFS 
attempted to contact Mrs T prior to terminating the agreement, and that she was given 
opportunities to discuss her account with them. As Mrs T didnt contact VWFS, Im satisfied 
that their decision to terminate the agreement was fair.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman