DRN-3357448
The complaint
Miss U complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has unfairly 
charged her damage to a car she had under a lease agreement. 
What happened
In November 2018 Miss U entered into a three-year lease agreement for a new car. At the 
end of the term, in November 2021, the car was collected from Miss U. The collection agent 
inspected the car, took some photos and provided Miss U with a two-page report. That 
report noted paint chips to the bonnet and left rear door, and scratches to the front bumper 
and right hand rear door. Under a column headed Second Inspection Required the notes 
said To be advised. 
A few days later, a further inspection was carried out. That inspection noted scratches to the 
front bumper and sill cover, and dents to the left hand rear quarter panel and right hand rear 
door. MBFS said that Miss U would need to pay £715 in respect of these items. The report 
also noted a number of minor scratches and paint chips for which there was no charge, as 
they fell within the reasonable wear and tear limits. 
Miss U challenged the charge that MBFS had applied. She said that the collection agent had 
told her that the damage identified at collection fell within the definition of reasonable wear 
and tear. She said too that there was no significant damage when the car was collected and 
that the car must therefore have been damaged after it had been collected. 
Miss U referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that the damage evidenced in the second inspection report was sufficient to justify 
the charge. He was also satisfied, on balance, that it had occurred when the car was in Miss 
Us possession. Miss U did not accept the investigators preliminary conclusion and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire agreement required Miss U to return the car in line with the Vehicle Return 
Standards set out in it. Failure to return the car within the standards would mean that Miss U 
would have to pay the costs of repair or the consequent reduction in value of the car. Those 
standards were set out over more than two pages, describing what degree of damage was 
acceptable as wear and tear and what damage would incur a charge. In the case of 
paintwork and bodywork, the standards allowed minor dents and light scratches, largely 
defined by size and depth. 
As I have indicated, there were two inspections here  a doorstep inspection when the car 
was collected and a more detailed inspection a few days later. The photographs from the 
doorstep inspection indicate that it was carried out in the wet and outside. The second 
inspection was in more favourable conditions  indoors and when the car was dry and clean. 
It is therefore a more reliable indication of the cars condition. 
It is of course not possible for me to carry out an inspection in-person. The most reliable 
evidence I have therefore is that provided by the individuals who inspected the car at the end 
of November and in early December 2021. I have considered that evidence very carefully, 
paying particular attention to the photographs of the four items that led to the charge. Having 
done so, I agree with the investigator that the damage reported was present. I am satisfied 
too that it fell outside the permitted return standards and outside the similar, but not identical, 
guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association. It could not be put 
down to wear and tear.  
I have considered too whether the damage is likely to have occurred after the car was 
collected from Miss U. I cannot of course rule that out, but I think it is unlikely. As the 
investigator noted, Miss U had been in possession of the car for three years, whereas the 
second inspection took place only a few days after the first. And the damage which led to the 
charges was not limited to one area, making it unlikely that it was the result of a single 
incident.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to take any further steps to resolve Miss Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman