DRN-4024050
The complaint
Mrs K and Miss K are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC have refused to refund money 
that they paid to have building works carried out. 
What happened
As it was Miss K that primarily dealt with the builders, for ease Ive referred to her throughout 
this decision. 
Miss K employed a limited company, that Ill call B, to replace a tiled and flat roof. Miss K 
says that the work was supposed to take two weeks and cost £12,000. But, after three 
months the work still wasnt complete.
Miss K says that B became unresponsive to her communication attempts, causing her to 
lose confidence and ask for her money back. B asked for more money to complete the work 
and when she refused, they didnt return. 
Miss K made payments in January, April and June of 2021 totalling almost £10,000. She 
reported the matter to Barclays in July 2021. Barclays said that the matter was a civil dispute 
between her and the builder. But Miss K said that both Action Fraud and Trading Standards 
thought it was a scam. She pointed to the fact that two of the payments she made had been 
sent to individuals who were not formally associated with B. 
Miss K says that the situation has caused her a significant amount of distress and shes also 
had to employ someone else to carry out the work. She was also unhappy that Barclays 
didnt advise her that she could raise a complaint when she first raised the issue and that 
she spent a long time explaining what had happened, only to be told that the matter was a 
civil dispute.
Miss K referred the matter to our service but one of our Investigators didnt uphold the 
complaint. They thought that Miss K had a civil dispute with B, that meant that the provisions 
of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (that might 
have otherwise required Barclays to refund Miss K) werent relevant.
 
Miss K disagreed, in summary she said:
-Two of the recipients were not legitimate suppliers of goods because they were not 
connected to B. One of the recipients portrayed himself as being a representative of 
B, but he wasnt.
-Barclays failed to stop or question the transactions despite them being unusual and, 
two of them, going to personal accounts when the reason given for the payments 
was paying a bill.
-Had Barclays alerted her to the fact that two of the accounts she was paying had no 
relationship with B, she wouldnt have made the payments. 
-Barclays did not make her aware of the complaints process when she first reported 
the fraud.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In law, Miss K is responsible for payments shes authorised herself. Faster payments, like 
the three disputed, dont attract any of the same consumer protections as payments made 
by plastic card. And, Barclays has no obligation to protect Miss K from a bad bargain or a 
potential civil dispute.
I can only hold Barclays responsible for Miss Ks loss if the provisions of the CRM Code are 
relevant. For that to be the case, Miss K would have to have been the victim of a scam, 
which is defined in the CRM Code as:
...a transfer of funds executed across Faster Paymentswhere:
-(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
-(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
The above provisions mean I need to consider whether Miss K was deceived by B and 
whether it set out to defraud her. This is an accusation of criminal wrongdoing and not one 
that should be taken lightly. 
I accept that Miss K has suffered a significant amount of stress here. On the face of it, she 
appears to have had work carried out that hasnt been to a high standard and has left her 
needing to carry out remedial works. But disputes of this nature are, in my view, clearly 
those which belong in the civil, rather than criminal, courts. 
As far as I can establish, B is an active company, nobody involved in it has attempted to 
conceal their identity and Barclays has no concerns about the way any of the accounts 
involved have been run. I can see from Miss Ks correspondence with B, that its 
representative visited her property numerous times over a number of months. Its undisputed 
that a significant amount of work has been carried out and that B continued to communicate 
with Miss K after the payments were made and she asked for a refund.
As Miss K herself suggests in some of the correspondence, it might be that B took on too 
much work and started to cut corners, but thats very different from a finding that B set out to 
deceive Miss K and never had any intention of completing the work to a satisfactory 
standard.
Turning to the points Miss K has raised in response to our Investigators view, its first 
important to state again that Barclays has no obligation to protect Miss K from a bad bargain 
or potential civil dispute. So, I cant say that it made a mistake by failing to question the 
payments and it cant be held responsible for any losses that might have been caused by not 
having done so. 
Regarding two of the recipients not being a legitimate supplier of goods, I think this has little 
relevance to the finding Ive made. I can only imagine that Trading Standards are simply 
saying that they cant investigate someone who isnt actually a provider of goods or services. But Miss Ks agreement was with B, not the individual recipient of the payment. Miss K has a 
receipt from B for at least one of the payments and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
both payments werent made at the direction, and for the benefit of, B. Miss K communicated 
with the director of B and it does not appear he ever denied having received the payments or 
that the person shed previously been dealing with was authorised to act on Bs behalf. 
So, I dont find that the fact she was instructed to pay, and largely communicated with, 
someone other than the director of B, demonstrates fraud. 
Overall, it is for Miss K to demonstrate that B was acting fraudulently and theres very little, if 
any, evidence which is consistent with that finding. Im satisfied that Miss K has a civil 
dispute with B.
Finally, I understand Miss Ks frustration at not being advised she could raise a complaint, 
but I dont think Barclays made an error in this regard. Id only expect it to explain the 
complaints process if Miss K made an expression of dissatisfaction with it (rather than B). I 
cant see that she would have had any cause to be unhappy with Barclays until after it 
declined her claim. It was for her to make Barclays aware of her dissatisfaction following the 
outcome it provided.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman