DRN-3792335
The complaint
P, a partnership complains that in 1999, Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) opened the wrong 
account. P says that this led to significant difficulties and wants BoS to pay 
substantially more compensation than it has offered to date.
P is represented in its complaint by a partner, Mr S.
What happened
P operates as a letting agent. In July 2019, Mr S asked BoS to confirm in writing that it 
wasnt entitled to set-off monies held in Ps client account as this was a requirement of 
the Letting Agent Code of Practice (the Code) in Scotland.
BoS responded in August 2019 saying that it couldnt provide the required confirmation as 
P had a business account and not a client account. In October 2019, BoS suggested that it 
open a Designated Client Account (DCA). As Mr S thought this would be administratively 
burdensome, he said hed need to speak to Ps clients.
Mr S says he tried to contact BoS after Christmas 2019. When someone rang back in early 
2020, Mr S was told that his contact had left and that there was now a problem with 
opening the account due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr S says this negatively affected Ps application to be placed on the Scottish Letting Agent 
Register (the Register). He was deeply concerned and BoS offered £500 for any distress 
caused. BoS also wrote to the affected landlords and the Register to explain the difficulties 
P was facing because of BoSs mistake.
Mr S continued to ask BoS to review its position but says he didnt receive any reply 
until October 2021 when BoS restated the position it had previously maintained.
Mr S says hes suffered two years of distress, uncertainty and inconvenience and Ps 
application to join the Register was refused due to being unable to provide evidence that 
P held a client account. Mr S says that P lost £9,000 income during this period.
The investigator thought that BoS had already done and offered enough to put things 
right. The investigator said that it wouldve been reasonable to expect P to try and open 
the client account sooner than it did and before BoS placed a hold on opening such 
accounts. The investigator agreed that BoSs mistake caused distress to P but that BoS 
had also tried to minimise the impact on P by writing to landlords and the Register. 
Overall, the investigator thought £500 was fair compensation.
Mr S disagrees with the investigators view. He points out that the letters BoS sent to the 
landlords and the Register didnt help P at all. Mr S says that P couldnt mitigate its losses 
as it was waiting for the outcome of BoSs investigation into Ps complaint. Mr S says he 
tried to contact BoS in early 2020 but his calls werent returned. By the time he heard from 
BoS in May/June 2020, it was no longer possible to open the DCA due to the restrictions 
imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr S says that P continued to try and open a client account in 2020 and 2021 but the 
pandemic stopped this from happening. P managed to open a client account with 
another provider in early 2021.
Mr S says BoS failed to correct its mistake despite saying a DCA would be opened to 
satisfy the requirements necessary to join the Register. Mr S says this resulted in 
significant financial loss and reputational damage as P couldnt act as a letting agent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
BoS agrees that it made a mistake so my decision focusses on whether its offer to pay 
£500 compensation goes far enough to put things right for P. It will disappoint P but I agree 
its fair and I will explain why.
Mr S became aware of the problem with Ps account in mid-2019. BoS told him in early 
August 2019 that it couldnt provide the confirmatory letter that he required as Ps account 
was a business account rather than the client account Mr S thought had been opened 
many years before.
In October 2019, BoS explained to Mr S that P would need to open a DCA but Mr S was 
concerned that this would create problems for P, so hed need to speak to his clients 
before deciding.
Although P may have found the requirements for setting up the DCA burdensome, this 
was the process that customers of BoS would have to follow. So, by around October 
2019, Mr S should have had a clear idea of the steps P would need to take to open a DCA 
with BoS.
If P was unhappy with BoSs proposed solution, it couldve tried to find an alternative one. 
It appears that bodies representing the interests of letting agents in Scotland made 
updates available to letting agents which included details of other banks providing client 
accounts and the platform that P ended up using in early 2021.
Although Mr S says made unsuccessful attempts to contact BoS in early 2020, given the 
urgency of needing to have a client account in place to ensure that Ps application to join 
the Register was successful, I wouldve reasonably expected Mr S to act more quickly than 
he did.
Its very unfortunate that by the time Mr S spoke to BoS in around May/June 2020, the 
impact of the Covid -19 pandemic meant that BoS couldnt open the account P needed. 
But I dont think this detracts from the fact that Mr S knew of the problem in the middle of 
2019 and couldve taken steps to either open the DCA with BoS or find an alternative 
solution before the start of the pandemic.
I take on board what Mr S says about his attempts to contact BoS in early 2020. But 
again, as Ive said above, having a client account was key to Ps ability to act as letting agent. By the time Mr S became aware of the problem with the account, hed already 
submitted Ps application to join the register. Without the DCA or a suitable client 
account, I think P shouldve reasonably been aware that its application to join the 
Register was likely to fail. In the circumstances, I consider it reasonable to have 
expected P to do more to mitigate its losses than it appears to have done.
I want to make it clear why Ive referred to both the DCA and client account in my 
decision. The Code stipulates that the letting agent must hold client money in one or 
more separate and dedicated bank accountsseparate from your main business or 
private accounts.. And the letting agent must have written confirmation from their bank 
or building society to say that all the money in the account is client money and that the 
bank or building society is not entitled to use the money in that account to set-off any 
sum owed to the bank on any other of the letting agents accounts that the bank or 
building society holds. The DCA was the name of the client account that BoS offered but 
different banks might have offered other solutions.
I agree that BoS made a mistake and that this led to additional work and stress for P but 
for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think I can hold BoS responsible for all the 
problems and financial loss that P faced in 2020 and 2021.
The compensation of £500 falls in the middle range of the type of award this service 
might make where the mistake has caused considerable distress and significant 
inconvenience. Our approach to awards like this is on our website. Overall, I consider 
BoSs offer to pay £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I consider that BoS has already made an offer that is fair. So, my final decision is that 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay P £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023. 
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman