DRN-3923931
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refused to make a 
transaction from their account. 
As it was Mr B making the transaction and the complaint, Ive referred mostly to him. 
What happened
Mr B went to a branch of RBS in October 2022 and asked to withdraw £13,000 in cash. The 
branch asked Mr B some questions about the purpose of the transaction and also whether 
he could provide an invoice for the work he was having done in his home. Mr B was unhappy 
with this questioning, said he didnt want to provide evidence of the payment he intended to 
make and felt RBS had threatened to call the police. RBS refused to allow Mr B to make his 
withdrawal. So Mr B complained. 
RBS responded to Mr Bs complaint. They said they had followed their process correctly so 
they didnt think theyd made a mistake by refusing to make Mr Bs transaction or mentioning 
calling the police. But they did accept that the level of service Mr B had received during his 
visit to the branch was not to the level they wouldve expected. They apologised and paid 
Mr B £75 in respect of this. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this and referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator 
considered what happened, he felt overall RBS hadnt made a mistake by refusing to make 
Mr Bs transaction but that what RBS had already offered Mr B was fair for the service hed 
received. He didnt agree that Mr B had been threatened with the police, although RBS had 
explained they might consider contacting the police. 
Mr B didnt agree, he maintained he was threatened with the police. He had been 
inconvenienced, caused embarrassment, and treated as someone who might be getting 
scammed despite explaining that he wasnt. 
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is unhappy RBS refused to allow his withdrawal of £13,000.
The terms and conditions of the account set out the circumstances in which RBS can refuse 
to carry out an instruction from their customer. This includes where RBS have concerns that 
the transaction might be fraudulent or to protect their customer or themselves from a crime. 
RBS have provided a copy of their internal guidance to staff about large cash withdrawals. 
Based on what Mr B has told us about the questions he was asked, Im satisfied RBS were 
following the correct process when asking Mr B about the circumstances of his withdrawal 
and in particular the purpose of it and whether he had an invoice. 
Sadly, scams are very common and often involve people being asked to go to branch and 
withdraw large amounts of cash. Its also not unusual for customers to be told by the 
scammers not to tell bank staff what the money is for  as part of the scam itself. So I dont 
think RBS were being unfair or unreasonable in questioning Mr B about his payment or then 
being concerned that he was reluctant to provide information about what the money was for. 
I do understand Mr Bs strength of feeling about being questioned on what he intended to 
use his own money for. And we know now the transaction was genuine and Mr B wasnt 
being scammed. But, at the time, based on what RBS branch staff knew about the 
transaction, I dont think it was unreasonable that they had concerns given the amount 
involved, that it wouldve been quite an unusual transaction compared to Mr and Mrs Bs 
usual account activity and that Mr B wouldnt provide much information about it. 
It's unfortunate that, on this occasion, processes designed to protect customers held up a 
genuine payment. But Im satisfied RBS were entitled in the circumstances to refuse to allow 
Mr Bs withdrawal and I dont think they treated Mr B unfairly by doing so. 
Mr B feels RBS threatened him with the police. RBS say they didnt threaten Mr B but told 
him that the police can be called in some circumstances where there are concerns about a 
transaction a customer is trying to make. This is known as the Police Banking Protocol and 
is an initiative designed to help protect customers from being the victims of scams. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B has said about how this made him feel and I do 
understand why he felt that way and that he feels so strongly about it. I think RBS were 
trying to help Mr B and follow their process  which can include contacting the police  so I 
dont agree RBS were wrong to mention the possibility of the police being called during 
Mr Bs visit to the branch. I think its unlikely RBS intended for this to be a threat in the way 
Mr B describes but they have agreed that, overall, the way things were handled in the 
branch wasnt how theyd usually expect. I think the £75 RBS has already paid is fair in 
recognition of this though, because, for the reasons Ive already explained, they were always 
going to be entitled to refuse to make Mr Bs transaction due to their concerns. 
While I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, overall Im satisfied RBS treated them fairly.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman