DRN-3502101
The complaint
Mr S says TSB Bank plc failed to inform him after it had taken a duplicate payment from his 
account, and it has not offered appropriate compensation. 
What happened
On 15 March 2022 TSB debited a payment for £3,426.53 from Mr Ss account in error, it was 
a duplicate of an earlier transaction processed on 2 March 2022. TSB returned the payment 
to Mr Ss account on 16 March 2022 and paid £50 compensation. Ms S says TSB did not 
contact him, he had to call the bank and he asks for £350 compensation.
Our investigator said the £50 compensation TSB had paid was fair. It had accepted and 
apologised for the systems error, Mr S had suffered no related financial loss and whilst Mr S 
says he had not received any communication from TSB there had been messages about the 
problem on its IVR, on social media, on its mobile banking app and on its website.
Mr S was unhappy with this assessment. He said TSB ought to have contacted him and it 
didnt, rather he had to tell them after hed found out by accident. In light of this, and the 
value of the duplicate transaction, compensation should be much higher. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that a TSB systems error caused a payment to debit Mr Ss account twice. 
Nor that it was refunded to him within 24 hours. But Mr S remains unhappy that he wasnt 
notified and feels this omission warrants higher compensation, particularly given the value of 
the transaction. 
TSB has said Mr S is registered to receive text alerts and the following message was sent to 
accountholders that way - Were sorry we mistakenly duplicated a debit card transaction(s) 
on your account. No need to call us. Weve put this right and you wont face any extra 
charges.
I accept Mr S says he did not receive this, it is not clear why, but TSB also issued 
communications about the problem on a number of public channels Mr S could access  
such as its IVR, social media channels, online and on its app. So I am satisfied TSB took 
reasonable steps to alert all impacted accountholders. There was also significant media 
coverage at the time. 
From the evidence I have seen Mr S did not suffer any financial loss as a result of the banks 
error and given that it was remedied in a timely manner, I think £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. It follows I am not awarding any additional compensation.
  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman