DRN-4201102
The complaint
Mr R complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) restricted his account and the funds 
held within it without explanation. Mr R adds he spent over eleven hours trying to resolve the 
matter with Barclays and had to wait over two hours in branch for his funds to be released 
when hed been told they were available to withdraw.
Mr R says he couldnt pay some of his bills and has incurred missed payment fees.  
What happened
This complaint does not deal with the closure of Mr Rs accounts. 
Around 1 July 2022, following a review, Barclays blocked Mr Rs accounts. After the review 
was completed, the funds were made available to Mr R, who withdrew them in branch 
around 21 July 2022.
Mr R says he spent over eleven hours speaking to Barclays staff on the phone and hasnt 
been given any explanation for its actions. He says that when he was told he could withdraw 
his funds, he went to branch, and they kept him waiting for over two hours before releasing 
them to him as no one initially knew what was going on. 
In its response, and in summary, Barclays said the activity on Mr Rs account prompted a 
routine review. And whilst doing so, it may place safeguards on any banking facilities as 
detailed in the account agreement. Barclays does not have to provide a reason for taking 
such action. 
Unhappy with what Barclays said, Mr R referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into it, and they didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In short, 
they found: 
- Barclays carried out the reviewed in line with its regulatory requirements. Barclays 
didnt need to give Mr R notice nor a reason for its review
- Barclays call logs show Mr R made multiple calls between 2 July 2022 and 
11 July 2022, at an average of 17 minutes per call. This must have been frustrating 
for Mr R, but it wasnt excessive. 
- Theres no evidence to show what happened in branch
Mr R didnt agree with what our Investigator said.  He says that the time he spent being 
passed from department to department hasnt been considered  and our Investigator only 
considered the time he was talking. Mr R adds that he was forced to withdraw his funds, and 
after waiting two days before going into branch as he was told, they didnt know what was 
going on. This meant he waited over two hours before getting his funds. 
As Mr R didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr R, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Barclays, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict customers accounts.
At this point I would add our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. 
Having carefully reviewed the information Barclays have sent me, Im satisfied it restricted 
the account in line with obligations placed upon it. I know Mr R would like an explanation as 
to why Barclays acted in this way, but Im not aware of any obligation under which it must 
disclose its reasons. 
Im also satisfied Barclays hasnt caused undue delay in its review. So I dont need to 
consider any compensation here. 
Mr R says that he spent over eleven hours speaking to staff at Barclays on the phone 
without getting any meaningful information or update. Barclays have sent me its call log for 
Mr R, and this shows he made 16 calls between 2 to 25 July 2022. The calls ranged from 
several seconds to half an hour. Mr R says there was also time he was on hold and being 
passed from department to department. 
Barclays were under no obligation to explain to Mr R why his account was blocked. So its 
highly likely anyone he spoke to were ever going to be helpful given they couldnt give him 
the answers he wanted. Ive already found that Barclays acted in line with its obligations 
when restricting Mr Rs accounts, and I do understand why he would make so many calls 
looking for answers. But as Barclays did nothing improper here, I dont find theres grounds 
to award any compensation for the calls Mr R decided to make. 
Mr R also complains that once he was told the funds were available for him to retrieve, he 
faced obstacles in the branch leading to over two hours wait. I can understand why this 
inconvenienced and likely frustrated Mr R. I dont have any information for what happened in 
the branch, so I cant fairly find that Barclays did anything wrong. Its also likely that given the 
reasons for the account being restricted, Barclays branch staff had to take extra steps to 
make sure they could release the funds. And this in turn meant Mr R had to wait longer than 
he expected. 
Mr R says he was forced to withdraw his funds as the account was being closed. But as he 
is aware, this decision does not cover the closure of his accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman