DRN-2075941
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that promotional points earned on his TSB Bank plc credit card were not
correctly transferred to his points account.
What happened
Mr E says he earned promotional points on his TSB credit card that can be seen on his
credit card account statements. But he says they were not added or transferred to his points 
account which is run by a company I will call "A". Mr E says he told TSB about the problem. 
But didn't receive a response, and says he could be at fault for not setting up his account 
with A correctly. Mr E would like an explanation into what has taken place and his points 
made available or a cash equivalent for the points he has lost out on.
TSB says it wrote to Mr E with a response to his complaint on 12 June 2019 and says his
points are visible on the account statements. But he will need to log in to the points related
accounts. TSB says it would not know if Mr E had set up the required accounts to receive
the points and says it called Mr E twice about his complaint, and left a message on one of
those calls.
Mr E had brought his complaint to us and says he didn't receive TSB's response. Our
investigator initially didn't uphold the complaint and didn't think there was evidence of a
mistake. TSB checked with A and discovered the reason for the problem was that Mr E had 
set up his TSB account with a different e-mail address to the related points account, and so 
the points couldn't be transferred by A. The points have now been transferred correctly to Mr 
E's account.
Our investigator reconsidered her view and thought Mr E had been caused inconvenience
and distress in following up his complaint, and trying to find out what had taken place. The
investigator recommended TSB pay £75 compensation.
Mr E agrees with that recommendation. But TSB says it gave Mr E the information he
needed to access his points, and he could have called it back after it left a message for him.
It says the problem was caused by Mr E using two different e-mail addresses. And it couldn't 
check that until Mr E brought his complaint to us and confirmed he had registered with A, 
and the related business.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional  view and said that I thought TSB had dealt fairly with this complaint, 
and hadn't made a mistake.
I said that Mr E told us when he brought this complaint that he may have been partially at 
fault in setting up the account with A. And I thought that is what happened here, that Mr E  
set up his account with A using a different e-mail address to the one registered with TSB. In 
those circumstances I thought it was A, that due to that mistake, was unable to transfer the points to Mr E's points account. I was satisfied that TSB correctly registered the points on Mr 
E's account statements and sent them as required to A. So I didn't think TSB made a 
mistake or acted unfairly, and could see that now A has the correct e-mail, it had transferred 
the points.
I thought the key question was, if TSB could have done more to have helped Mr E or found 
out what the problem was before it did. I could see that Mr E contacted TSB about the 
problem in May 2019, and TSB responded to the complaint in June 2019. I appreciated Mr E 
says he didn't receive that letter. But I was satisfied it was correctly addressed. And in any 
event I said I couldn't  fairly hold TSB responsible for the safe delivery of mail. I also 
thought it likely that TSB did try to speak with Mr E and I had no reason to doubt what it said, 
that it left a message on Mr E's answerphone. And I said I would have expected Mr E to 
have contacted TSB again if he didn't receive a response to his complaint. So I was satisfied 
that TSB tried to help Mr E, and told him that he needed to register with A if he hadn't done 
so. I didn't  think TSB could have known if Mr E had correctly registered with A and the 
related business at the time it sent the final response to his complaint.
Mr E hadn't told me if he approached A about the points not being visible in his account. And 
overall I thought TSB tried reasonably to help Mr E. The problem was caused by
the e-mails not matching and not by something TSB did. In those circumstances I didn't think 
compensation was justified or that I could uphold this complaint.
Mr E has replied to my provisional view and in summary says he didn't say he didn't receive 
TSB's letter in June 2019 and questions why TSB is believed about the calls to him. But he 
isn't believed that the calls were not made. Mr E doesn't accept he was at fault and says he 
has received a recent letter from TSB about missing points.
TSB doesn't wish to add anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view that I did in my provisional view.
I appreciate Mr E says he didn't say that he didn't receive TSB's response to his complaint. 
So I have looked at Mr E's complaint form and can see that he says TSB told him it was 
looking into the complaint but didn't give him its final response. I have explained why I can't 
fairly hold TSB responsible for Mr E not receiving the letter if that is still his position
I have looked at TSB's records and can see that there is a reference to two calls to Mr E in 
connection with this complaint. I think it unlikely TSB would have recorded that information 
on its records unless it tried to speak to Mr E. So on balance I think those calls were made.
Overall I'm satisfied that the problem in transferring the points was caused by Mr E setting 
up the two accounts with different e-mails. In those circumstances I can't fairly hold 
TSB responsible for that mistake and I don't think TSB could reasonably have known about 
the mistake as it would not have access to that information. 
I have looked at the letter from TSB about missing points that was sent to Mr E in 2020. I 
don't think that appears to be linked to this complaint and that is something he will need to 
raise with TSB if he wishes to make a complaint about that.
I'm satisfied this brings an end to what we can do informally to resolve this complaint and can see in any event that Mr E says he will now consider alternative action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman