DRN-3328086
The complaint
Miss W complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has refused to pay for further physiotherapy
treatment following a claim she made on a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2018, Miss W was diagnosed with a torn meniscus and she later underwent
surgery. During that surgery, it was found that a previous anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)
reconstruction Miss W had had in 2011 had failed. In October 2018, she became a member
of her employers group private medical insurance scheme. Miss W underwent the first stage
of ACL revision surgery in May 2019 and the second stage in August 2019. BUPA met the
costs of this treatment and physiotherapy treatment costs in between the two operations.
Following the second operation, in September 2019, Miss Ws physiotherapist requested
that BUPA pre-authorise payment for 16 sessions. On 3 October 2019, the physiotherapist
requested a further 12 sessions.
BUPA reviewed Miss Ws claim. On 8 October 2019, its own physiotherapist concluded that
only a further five sessions should be authorised, to be spread over eight-12 weeks, to
promote rehabilitation.
Miss Ws physiotherapist sent another additional funding form to BUPA in late October 2019,
requesting authorisation for a further 12 sessions. BUPAs clinical team again reviewed the
request and didnt agree. It concluded that Miss Ws condition was now chronic. The policy
terms only provided cover for acute conditions, so it considered she was no longer eligible
for the treatment. BUPA also noted that the five sessions it had authorised in early October
had been used-up in four weeks. It agreed to fund a further two sessions only to facilitate
Miss W to self-manage her condition.
BUPA sent Miss W a text message on 6 November 2019, which asked her to call it to
discuss matters. Miss W also says she missed a call while she was at work and wasnt able
to get in touch with BUPA. It seems Miss W didnt call BUPA again until 26 November 2019,
by which time shed had a further four physiotherapy sessions.
Miss W was unhappy with BUPAs decision to stop funding her treatment, as her consultant
had recommended that she undergo physiotherapy for a two-year period. She didnt think
BUPA had taken reasonable steps to let her know about its decision. And she considered
that the reason for declining to cover further treatment was due to a change in the
relationship between BUPA and the physiotherapist. She asked us to look into her
complaint.
Our investigator thought it was fair for BUPA to refuse to fund ongoing physiotherapy
sessions for Miss W. She considered that the evidence suggested that Miss Ws condition
had become chronic, as it required ongoing rehabilitation. She noted that the policy required
a policyholder to obtain pre-authorisation of treatment costs  but in this case, the
physiotherapist had requested authorisation on Miss Ws behalf. So she didnt think BUPA
could fairly be held responsible for costs Miss W had incurred as a result.
However, she didnt think BUPA had handled Miss Ws claim as well as it couldve done.
She wasnt persuaded itd been made clear to Miss W, in October 2019, that it was only
prepared to pay for five further physiotherapy sessions. And she didnt think BUPA had done
enough to let Miss W know, between 6 and 26 November 2019, that itd decided not to pay
for any additional physiotherapy sessions. So she recommended that BUPA should pay Miss
W £100 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong which it needs to put right. I 
said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Miss Ws policy; the available medical and other evidence and the circumstances of
her claim, to decide whether BUPA treated her fairly.
Was it fair for BUPA to treat Miss Ws condition as chronic?
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of Miss Ws policy, as these form the
basis of her contract with BUPA. These say that BUPA covers eligible treatment. This is
defined (in part) as: treatment of an acute medical condition.
BUPAs set out what it means by an acute condition. The policy states this is:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease,
illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
The policy terms also list specific things which BUPA doesnt cover. BUPA specifically
excludes claims which are down to chronic conditions. These are defined as:
a disease, illness or injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations,
check-ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
Theres no dispute that BUPA paid for Miss Ws two-stage ACL surgery in April and August
2019. It also agreed to cover some of the costs of her physiotherapy. However, in October
and November 2019, it concluded that Miss Ws condition had become chronic. So Ive
looked at the available medical evidence to decide whether I think this was a fair conclusion
for BUPA to reach.
Ive seen copies of the additional funding requests Miss Ws physiotherapist sent to BUPA.
In early October 2019, the physiotherapist stated that supervised strengthening was helping
greatly. And in late October 2019, the physiotherapist said that Miss W was progressing well
and that the focus was now on supervised movement and patterns of retraining. In February
2020, Miss Ws consultant wrote to her GP, stating the following:
The well documented medical literature for this type of rehabilitation is supervisedphysiotherapy for revision ACLs for at least 2 years post-surgery.
Taken together then, the evidence suggests that Miss Ws consultant recommended that she
undergo long-term physiotherapy for rehabilitative purposes, rather than as an acute need.
So I dont think it was unfair for BUPAs clinical specialist to consider all the evidence and to
conclude overall that the claim fell within the scope of a chronic condition. Thats because it
seems Miss W needed ongoing physiotherapy sessions, given the number requested by her
provider and because it seems the consultant felt she required rehabilitation. This means I
think it was reasonable for BUPA to conclude that the physiotherapy treatment was no
longer acute and as such, was no longer eligible for cover.
Therefore, I currently find it was fair for BUPA to decline to pay for further physiotherapy
sessions.
Did BUPA fail to properly notify Miss W about its decision to stop paying for physiotherapy?
As Ive set out above, it seems that the physiotherapist requested continuing funding on Miss
Ws behalf, rather than Miss W obtaining pre-authorisation from BUPA for further
physiotherapy sessions once shed used up her original authorised sessions.
The policy terms clearly state though that a policyholder must call BUPA to pre-authorise
their treatment. This means it was Miss Ws responsibility to get in touch with BUPA to
request pre-authorisation for further sessions. And the contract terms also set out the
potential consequences should a policyholder fail to do so. The policy says:
Failure to obtain pre-authorisation from us means that you will be responsible for paying for
all such treatment if we would not have pre-authorised that treatment.
In this case, it seems that Miss W continued to undergo treatment, following the
physiotherapists further funding requests, when BUPA had already decided against
authorising additional sessions (albeit unknowingly). I think its likely then that had Miss W
contacted BUPA directly, as the policy terms required her to do, shed have been told that
the treatment was no longer eligible. And that therefore, shed have been aware that any
further sessions would be at her own expense.
I appreciate that Miss W doesnt think that BUPA took reasonable steps to let her know
about its claims decision and Ive considered this carefully. BUPA has sent us a copy of its 
contact notes. I can see that on 8 October 2019, BUPAs physiotherapist agreed to cover 
five further sessions. A note on 9 October 2019 states that the bens (beneficiaries) should 
be advised about this decision. Given the physiotherapist requested further funding after 
these five sessions had been used quickly, it seems likely that the physiotherapist at least 
wouldve been aware of the sessions BUPA had agreed to cover.
I can also see that on 6 November 2019, BUPA sent a text to the number it held for Miss W
asking her to call it to discuss matters. This was following its decision to decline to pay
further physiotherapy costs. Miss W also told us that she recalls missing a call from BUPA
but wasnt able to get through. She didnt speak with BUPA until 26 November 2019, by
which time, shed already incurred further physiotherapy costs.
I agree with our investigator that BUPA could potentially have done more to get in touch with
Miss W. But equally, Miss W was aware that BUPA wanted to speak with her, at a time she
knew she had an ongoing claim. While she may have not been able to get through to BUPA
immediately, it seems unlikely that she couldnt have got in contact for a 20-day period. Or
indeed, by 11 November 2019, when it seems she underwent the first of the post-declination
physiotherapy sessions.On this basis and in these circumstances, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or
reasonable for me to direct BUPA to pay Miss W any compensation. Overall, while I think it
could perhaps have done more to bring its decision to Miss Ws attention, I think it was
entitled, based on its physiotherapists view, to end cover. And given Miss W didnt follow the
claims process, or seemingly try to chase BUPA for almost three weeks after its text
message, I dont think BUPA has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Neither Miss W nor BUPA responded by the deadline we gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any more comments or evidence they wanted 
me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman