DRN-2958210
The complaint
Mr C complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
AvantCredit lent Mr C one loan in February 2019, the loan was for £4,750 with 35 monthly 
repayments of £229.97 and one repayment of £230.20. The loan had a 36-month term and 
the total repayable at the end of the term was £8,279.15.
Mr C complained to AvantCredit through a third-party representative but it didnt uphold his 
complaint and so it was referred here. One of our investigators looked into what both parties 
had said and though AvantCredit wasnt wrong to lend. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
AvantCredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.  
AvantCredit has provided evidence to show that before lending this loan, it asked Mr C about 
his monthly income. Mr C declared his income as £2,666, AvantCredit verified information 
using Mr Cs bank statements. I can also see it searched Mr Cs credit file before agreeing to 
lend. Based on the outcome of these checks, it thought it was reasonable to lend.
The results of the credit search showed that Mr C had three loans, four credit cards and a 
mail order account. He had been managing these accounts well and there were no signs of 
financial strain obvious from his credit file. Mr C has confirmed that he was consolidating one 
of the loans and his credit card with the highest balance through this borrowing. I think given 
Mr Cs credit, it was reasonable for AvantCredit to want to understand his circumstances 
better and I can see it requested his bank statements from a month before it approved the 
loan. Given the checks, I think AvantCredit took its checks far enough.
Ive thought about whether AvantCredit made a fair lending decision in the circumstances 
and looking all the information, I dont think AvantCredit unfairly lent this loan. The bank 
statements provided suggest that after the consolidation, Mr C was left with more than £400 
in disposable income after taking into account his income around £2,216, which included his 
wages and benefits and also his living costs including his credit commitments of around 
£1,571, Mr C had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repayments. There was 
also nothing in his wider circumstances that suggested AvantCredit should have been 
concerned about the sustainability of the loan.
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about his complaint and my findings will likely disappoint 
him but I hope my explanation goes some way to helping him understand why Ive reached 
these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman