DRN-1790589
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr W are unhappy with the mortgage endowment policy they had with 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. They have said they were told the policy was 
suitable for them and they didnt receive an explanation of other the types of mortgage that 
were available. They believe they would have been financially better off with another type of 
mortgage. 
What happened
In 1987 Mrs S and Mr W took out an endowment policy to protect and act as the repayment 
vehicle for their mortgage. The policy was a low start, with-profits endowment with a target 
value of £39,030 and a term of 25 years. The premium started at £33.50 per month and 
increased over the following five years to eventually end up at twice that figure.
The policy was assigned to the mortgage lender at the time and remained so until 2004. At 
that time Mrs S and Mr W requested the assignment be cancelled and they sold (traded) 
the policy. 
The application form from 1987 shows that Mrs S and Mr W were buying a property 
together. They were both employed and were in their early 20s. their joint income was in the 
region of £14,000 per year.
Prudential responded to the complaint in December 2019. It didnt uphold the complaint. it 
thought Mrs S and Mr Ws circumstances indicated the policy was appropriate for them at 
the time of the sale. It acknowledged that as a low start option was chosen, the overall costs 
might have been higher than a repayment mortgage. However, they were aware of the costs 
at the time and could have cancelled if theyd been unhappy.
One of our investigators considered Mrs S and Mr Ws complaint. She didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld as she wasnt persuaded the policy was inappropriate for them in 1987. 
Mrs S and Mr W didnt accept the investigators view of their complaint and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I have to look at the situation at the time of the sale; I cannot 
apply hindsight when doing so. 
In 1987 neither the investment or mortgage industries were regulated. As such, the suitability 
requirements that were introduced later didnt apply and a product only needed to be 
appropriate for the purpose it was taken for. I would also confirm that if advice was 
requested, even in 1987, it would have been for the adviser to discuss a consumers needs 
and requirements, and then make a recommendation. It wouldnt be expected for all options 
to be presented to a consumer and for the consumer to be asked to chose one of the 
options; that would negate the need for an adviser. So I wouldnt be able to uphold a 
complaint simply because Mrs S and Mr W werent given a selection of options for how to 
repay their mortgage.
When Mrs S and Mr W approached the adviser from Prudential (in the estate agency), they 
asked for advice on the best way for them to buy the property they wanted. There is limited 
information from the time of the sale because there was no requirement for documentation to 
be kept at the time, but even if there had been, it would be unlikely for much to exist given it 
is over 30 years since the sale. 
What we do know is that Mrs S and Mr W were sold a with-profits endowment policy and at 
the time, it would have been viewed as representing little risk. This was because similar 
policies had historically produced very good returns, often significantly in excess of their 
target values. Due to this, such policies were considered appropriate for all but those 
completely averse to taking a risk. 
Looking at Mrs S and Mr Ws circumstances at the time, I havent seen anything that would 
indicate the policy wasnt appropriate for them. Given their ages the policy matured many 
years before their anticipated retirement ages. So, if there were a shortfall at maturity they 
had time to deal with it before their incomes dropped at retirement. The mortgage was within 
normal lending criteria at the time, which would again indicate there were no affordability 
issues. Whilst it was a low start policy, so the premium increased over the first few years, 
Mrs S and Mr W were aware of this at the time and as the premiums were paid until they 
sold the policy, it wouldnt appear there were any affordability issues.
Whilst I know that Mrs S and Mr W will be disappointed in my findings, I dont believe the 
evidence indicates Prudential did anything wrong in 1987 in recommending an endowment 
backed mortgage to them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 October 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman