DRN-1542316
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) told him his loan had been written 
off when it hadnt been.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion for the following reasons:
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Barclays accept they made a mistake when their call handler told Mr S his loan had been 
written off in April 2019. But, I think its reasonable to suggest Mr S would have been aware 
there was a large amount still due and that it was therefore very likely that Barclays had 
made a mistake when telling him it was written off. 
I say that because I can see that Mr S had only made a few payments against the debt and 
hadnt paid anything since 2016. The debt was nearly £19,000 in 2019, when the call was 
made. I dont think a reasonable person would expect that amount to have been written off 
without the bank even being in touch.
I dont think it would therefore have been a surprise when Mr S subsequently received 
notification from Barclays that theyd made a mistake. In those circumstances, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect Barclays to honour the mistake theyd made, but they should 
compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Barclays offered £100 in compensation, but I dont think thats enough. In April 2019 
Barclays told his financial representative that he owed nothing and shortly afterwards he was 
told he owed almost £19,000. That would have been distressing. But I weigh that against the 
fact that it should have been clear a mistake had been made. In all the circumstances I think 
Barclays should increase the compensation to £200 but I dont think I have sufficient 
evidence to suggest it would be fair to ask them to pay any more.
I can see that Mr S is also unhappy that Barclays discussed his financial matters with 
someone else who he hadnt authorised them to speak to. Barclays dont think they did 
anything wrong. Its not our role to decide if a business has breached data protection laws. 
That is for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide and Mr S should therefore 
refer any complaint he has about this to the them.
Putting things right
Im asking Barclays to pay Mr S an additional £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay Mr S £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused. They may deduct the £100 theyve already offered if thats now been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman