DRN-2462202
The complaint
Mrs As complained that Crosfill & Archer Claims Limited (C&A) havent provided her with 
any information about progress of any claims to recover payment protection insurance (PPI).   
What happened
In April 2018, after receiving a number of calls from them, Mrs C instructed C&A to act for 
her in recovering PPI and to check if she had opted out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS).  
Mrs C provided details of between five and ten businesses for C&A to check.  She says that, 
apart from one phone call and two emails, shes received no updates on her claims - 
although she has been asked to sign fresh letters of authority on several occasions. 
Mrs C complained to C&A in October 2019.  C&A didnt respond to her complaint, so she 
brought it to our service.  She told us shes concerned that shes missing out on payments 
which are due to her.
Our investigator considered Mrs Cs complaint.  As part of his investigation, he tried to 
contact C&A.  But C&A didnt respond  so he completed his investigation on the basis of 
information and copy documents provided by Mrs C. 
The investigator explained that claims management companies should keep customers up to 
date.  He noted this was reflected in C&As terms and conditions.  He concluded C&A hadnt 
done this.  
And he couldnt be sure whether C&A had submitted any claims on Mrs Cs behalf.  But he 
said that, if they had, they should progress those, update Mrs C monthly and waive any fees 
that would ordinarily be due.  If no claims had been submitted, he said C&A should pay £250 
compensation because shes now lost the opportunity to make a claim.
C&A didnt respond to the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Cs frustration with her situation.  She was contacted by a company 
offering to help her  but she cant find out what (if anything) theyve actually done.  And Im 
sorry that bringing her complaint to us wont give her those answers  because our 
investigator was no more successful in contacting C&A than she was.
Ive looked at everything Mrs Cs sent to us.  There isnt much, but its all shes had from 
C&A.  From what Ive seen, I think the most likely position is that C&A havent submitted 
claims to any financial institutions.
Mrs Cs told us that she gave details of at least five businesses to C&A.  If C&A had 
contacted them, I think at least some of them would have responded.  I dont think its likely 
that all five failed to acknowledge or process Mrs Cs claim.
And it unfortunately follows that, if no claims were submitted, Mrs C has lost the opportunity 
to pursue them.  I think that C&As fault because Mrs C instructed them 16 months before 
the deadline.
Putting things right
I cant say how much Mrs C might have recovered if her claims had been pursued.  But I 
think that C&A should compensate Mrs C for the stress of not knowing whether a claims 
been submitted. I think £250 is the right amount to do that.
And I think that, if Mrs C finds out C&A have pursued a claim on her behalf, C&A should 
waive any fees theyd otherwise claim for doing that  because theyve not kept her informed 
of progress, as their terms and conditions say they would.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint about Crosfill & Archer 
Claims Limited and directing them to:
pay her £250 compensation for the stress shes been caused; and
waive any fees that would otherwise be due in the event they make a successful 
claim for her.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman