DRN-2372815
The complaint
Miss M says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001 at the same time as Miss M applied 
for a credit card in one of the banks branches. It gave her accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Miss M has raised a number of issues in detail throughout this investigation. I have 
considered them all carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution 
service I will comment here on those I find material to the outcome of her complaint. Miss M 
has also said she wanted to send in more information relevant to her case. But despite 
having more time than the deadline of 12 November 2020, and the extensions granted by 
the adjudicator during the investigation, she hasnt been able to provide this information. So 
Ive reached my conclusion based on what Miss M has already told us and what we know 
about her circumstances.
Miss M also said that other PPI claims she made against the bank were successful, but I can 
only comment here on the individual merits of this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
RBS had to make clear to Miss M that the PPI was optional, and Miss M had to agree to take 
it out. On her application form the PPI section was ticked, indicating that she wanted to take 
it out. There was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led her to believe it 
was mandatory. Miss M says she didnt complete the credit card application form, an adviser 
did, and she then signed and dated it. But I think its reasonable to expect that she would 
have read it carefully before signing  it was an application for credit in her name.
Overall, I think RBS made it clear the PPI was optional and Miss M agreed to take it out.
I dont think RBS recommended the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. Miss M has pointed out the form said We strongly recommend you take this cover 
but I think its clear this was a generic statement on all applications forms and not 
personalised advice for Miss M. As she herself has confirmed, RBS didnt ask for information 
on her circumstances and provide tailored advice. This means it was up to Miss M to decide 
whether the policy was right for her bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work or lost her job.
Its possible RBS didnt give Miss M all the information about the PPI that she needed
before she made her decision. But it seems Miss M chose to take out the policy and so
appears to have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the
exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions 
or on certain types of employment contracts), and the policy was apparently affordable and a 
reasonable cost for the benefit it offered. 
Miss M says she was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12 months. 
Miss M has sent in evidence of all the savings she had at the time of the sale, but these 
were not of such a value that I think she didnt have a need for the PPI. And the PPI would 
have allowed her to use them to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for her future needs. She also had a pension and endowment policy, but these 
products are not suitable alternatives and wouldnt help with monthly repayments in the 
same way as PPI. Miss M sent in details of life and critical illness cover but again this 
protects against different events, and in addition the commencement date was after the date 
of this sale. 
So, overall, based on what I know about her circumstances and the terms of the PPI policy, I 
dont think Miss M wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
- RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because RBS didnt tell Miss M, 
that was unfair. 
- To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
What the business needs to do
RBS has to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Miss M any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss M the difference between 
what Miss M owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Miss M 8%* simple 
interest (15% before April 1993) if she paid off their credit card at some point.
RBS set out this calculation in its final response letter and confirmed that it will apply the 
refund to Miss Ms credit card account to reduce her outstanding balance.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It will apply this as a credit to 
her current credit card balance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman