DRN-4305449
The complaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires have refused his 
request to extend the term of his mortgage.
What happened
In 2007 Mr W took out an interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM) that was secured over his residential property. He borrowed 
around £500,000 over a term of five years. The term came to an end in 2012. BM agreed to 
extend it to August 2019.
In 2020 Mr W brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service after BM refused to 
extend the term further in 2019 and he thought theyd given him a lifetime mortgage. That 
complaint was resolved on the basis BM would consider an application for a term extension 
from Mr W in line with the rules set out in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business sourcebook (MCOB), including whether a term extension was in Mr Ws best 
interests.
Mr Ws application was delayed by the coronavirus pandemic. BM considered it in early 
2022 and refused the extension. They said, broadly, Mr W didnt meet their criteria for a 
further extension on grounds of affordability. Mr W complained. He said he could meet his 
monthly payments; BM had failed to take into account dividends he could pay himself from 
his business; and he could sell his property and business at the end of two years to repay 
what he owed. When BM didnt uphold the complaint he brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator thought BM had acted fairly in considering and rejecting the request. She 
said whilst Mr W wanted to delay selling his properties and business, the term had come to 
an end. The terms and conditions of the mortgage required him to repay it. And he was able 
to repay it using the repayment vehicles hed suggested in 2019 and more recently.
Since Mr W didnt agree, his complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I recently issued 
a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling about his complaint. I may not mention all the 
information he and BM have provided. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects 
the informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I consider key in coming to 
my decision. Based on what Ive seen so far, Ive come to the same outcome as our 
investigator. Since my reasons are different in part, Im issuing a provisional decision to give 
the parties the chance to make further comments before I come to a final decision.
I understand that when Mr W requested a term extension in 2019 there was some confusion 
about whether he had a lifetime mortgage. Mr Ws mentioned that in relation to his current 
complaint. But it was addressed and resolved when he brought this specific point to us 
previously. It has no bearing on this complaint, so I wont consider it here. The complaint Im 
considering is about BM declining Mr Ws application for a term extension following the 
previous complaint.
There was a delay in BM considering the application due to the pandemic. The effect of that 
was that the mortgage carried on. But it hasnt affected Mr Ws overall position. The term 
extension hes asking for now is essentially the same as it was before. Hed like an 
extension for two years beyond his 75th birthday in September this year to allow time to sell 
his rental property and his business and use the equity released to repay the loan.
The starting point for considering Mr Ws complaint is the terms and conditions of his 
mortgage. The term of the mortgage was five years. It was a condition of the mortgage he 
repay the borrowing at the end of the term. BM were entitled to expect him to do so. I 
appreciate it would have been difficult for Mr W to sell his assets during the pandemic. But 
hes already had a five-year term extension and additional time due to the delay in BM 
looking at his request. Id nevertheless expect BM to have treated him fairly and reasonably, 
taking into account MCOB and the outcome of the previous complaint, when they considered 
it.
Broadly MCOB requires a lender to make sure that any change to a mortgage that is 
material to the affordability of the mortgage is affordable for the borrower. A term extension 
that goes into or further into retirement is considered to be a change that is material to 
affordability. Where the mortgage is an interest only mortgage, the lender must also make 
sure that the borrower has a credible repayment strategy.
A lender need not apply the affordability or credible repayment strategy rules in certain 
circumstances, which apply here, if its in the borrowers best interests to agree to a term 
extension. But it may not be in the borrowers best interests to continue with a mortgage if 
they cant afford it. And it wouldnt be unfair for a lender to rely on an affordability 
assessment in those circumstances.
It's not clear from BMs response whether they considered Mr Ws best interests in carrying 
out the review. They only mentioned the mortgage wasnt affordable for him and didnt meet 
their lending criteria. Theyve said since that a term extension wouldnt be in Mr Ws best 
interests as hed pay more interest on the mortgage and his proposals for repaying the 
mortgage are the same now as they were in 2019.
From what I understand, BMs calculation showed Mr Ws income exceeded his expenditure. 
But once theyd stress tested the mortgage payments to see what they might cost in the 
future, there was a shortfall, even if rental income was considered. I note Mr W feels BM 
should also have taken into account dividend payments he could have paid himself from his 
business but hadnt. Hes pointed to a newspaper article about another lender that accepted 
it could have done that in its case. And hes said BM acknowledged they would have taken 
dividend income into account if hed had any. Different lenders treat dividend income 
differently. I dont think BM were unreasonable in not taking potential dividend income into account without evidence of Mr W paying himself a regular dividend and knowing how much 
it was.
Based on BMs assessment, the mortgage was unaffordable for Mr W going forward. If that 
was right, then it was fair for them to take that into account in determining if it was in his best 
interests to extend the mortgage term. If Mr W cant afford to pay the mortgage now or once 
hes retired, its unlikely to be in his best interests for the mortgage to continue. He could fall 
into arrears, become liable for additional interest and charges and, potentially, be subject to 
possession proceedings.
But even if BM were wrong about affordability, Im not persuaded it would be in Mr Ws best 
interests, or fair to BM, for a further extension to be granted for the reasons Ill explain.
Theres no suggestion here that Mr W cant repay the mortgage. From what I understand, 
the repayment vehicles he plans to use are the same now as they were previously. Im 
aware Mr W would like to tie in repaying the BM mortgage with his retirement and when 
other borrowing is due to be repaid. But Im not aware of any compelling reason why he 
shouldnt be required to repay the mortgage now. He hasnt explained why he needs to retire 
at 75. Theres no guarantee hell be in the same or a better financial position in the following 
two years. Its possible the value of his rental property and business could decline if he holds 
off selling. If property prices do fall and he realises less from the sales than he hopes for, he 
may be unable to repay the mortgage as planned. That could put his residential property at 
risk as well as BMs security. Bearing everything in mind, I dont think its in Mr Ws best 
interests or fair to BM to delay.
In all the circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable for BM to have declined Mr Ws 
application to extend the mortgage term. And I dont intend to ask them to.
Mr W will need to arrange to market and sell the assets he intends to use to repay his 
mortgage with BM. He should take reasonably prompt steps to do that and keep in touch 
with BM to update them on progress. Mr W will need to continue making his mortgage 
payments in the meantime. BM should continue to treat Mr W fairly and reasonably, and to 
allow a reasonable period of time for the transactions to complete before taking any action to 
recover their loan.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Developments
BM had no comments to make on my provisional decision. 
Mr W didnt agree and made several points, which Ill summarise:
The issue about whether BM had given Mr W a lifetime mortgage wasnt satisfactorily 
resolved. He considers it to be part of this complaint.
BM didnt carry out a thorough financial review. They didnt look into whether Mr W 
could take a dividend from his company. He hadnt needed to before as he could 
make the CMP without it.
The properties which are Mr Ws repayment vehicle have increased significantly in 
value over the years given their location. Even if values fell, hed still be able to repay 
the mortgage easily.Hes asked for two years to sell as he thinks it could take that long based on his 
experience of other properties in the same location.
Ive noted BM havent shown that they acted in Mr Ws best interests.
The repayment of Mr Ws business loan doesnt fall due until 2026.
Affordability is irrelevant. Mr W could continue to pay the mortgage without a 
problem. His pension income and income from his businesses would continue 
unchanged until the properties are sold.
BM havent acted fairly from the start  from giving him a lifetime mortgage in 2012 to 
carrying out a full and thorough investigation of his full income.
Ill go on to give my final decision bearing Mr Ws comments in mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said. Whilst I understand hell be disappointed, 
Im not persuaded to change my mind.
I note Mr W remains unhappy about the lifetime mortgage issue. But that was addressed 
when Mr W complained previously that BM wouldnt extend the mortgage term. Our 
investigator explained then that where a business makes a mistake, we generally tell it to put 
the customer into the position they would have been in had they been given the right 
information. He said if BM hadnt made a mistake in telling Mr W theyd given him a lifetime 
mortgage, they would have told him they dont offer lifetime mortgages. So, we wouldnt ask 
BM to give Mr W a lifetime mortgage. 
Our investigator said the offer BM had made to compensate him was fair to reflect the false 
expectation Mr W had been given. He also said BM should carry out a mortgage review with 
BM and consider if it was in Mr Ws best interests for the term to be extended. The complaint 
was resolved in 2020 on that basis. 
Here I am considering Mr Ws separate and later complaint about BMs action in carrying out 
the mortgage review and the outcome of that. It doesnt include a review of the lifetime 
mortgage issue.
The points Mr Ws made in response to my provisional decision arent substantively new. 
Even if I thought BM ought to have looked into potential dividends Mr W could pay himself 
more closely when assessing affordability, I dont think that affects the outcome of the 
complaint. Thats because, even setting aside the affordability assessment, and even though 
I didnt think it was clear if BM had considered best interests in their review, I dont think 
extending the term is in Mr Ws best interests or fair to BM. 
Even though Mr Ws confident there would be sufficient equity in his properties to pay the 
mortgages off following a two-year extension, even if their values fell, thats not certain. Its 
not certain either hell continue to receive the same level of income from his businesses 
going forward even if his pension income stays the same. If he doesnt, that could affect the 
affordability of the mortgage. And continuing the mortgage will cost him more in interest overall. 
I also need to consider BMs position. I appreciate Mr W understood previously BM had 
agreed to give him a lifetime mortgage. But that had been clarified by 2020. And although 
the pandemic meant the mortgage review was delayed, the mortgage term ended several 
years ago. BM are entitled to be repaid under the terms of the mortgage. Mr Ws plan to 
repay the mortgage in two years time will be the same as it is now. Given the potential risks 
to BMs security a delay might cause, however small Mr W thinks they might be, Im not 
persuaded its fair to extend the term.
I understand Mr W thinks it will take two years for a sale of his businesses to go through. Its 
possible it could happen sooner. As I said in my provisional decision, he will need to take 
reasonably prompt steps to arrange to market and sell the assets he intends to use to repay 
his mortgage with BM. He should keep in touch with BM to update them on progress. And he 
will need to continue making his mortgage payments in the meantime. BM should continue 
to treat Mr W fairly and reasonably, and to allow a reasonable period of time for the 
transactions to complete before taking any action to recover their loan. If Mr W feels BM 
arent treating him fairly and reasonably, he can raise a new complaint.
Bearing everything in mind, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman