DRN-1854883
The complaint
Mrs H says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs H bought the policy in January 1997 at the same time as applying for a personal 
reserve account.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint based on Mrs H having told us that at the time of sale 
she was working fewer than 16 hours per week. This was because Mrs H wouldnt have 
been eligible for the policy. Allianz disagreed, and provided evidence that Mrs H had told it 
she worked between 16 and 20 hours a week at that time. Which meant she wouldve 
been eligible for it.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I was not planning to uphold the complaint. Neither 
Allianz nor Mrs H responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint for the following reasons. Given 
the conflicting information Mrs H has provided about the hours she worked at the time the 
PPI was sold, and based on the evidence currently available to me, I can't reasonably say 
she wasn't eligible for the policy.
Based on what we know about how this PPI was sold, I think Allianz made Mrs H aware that 
she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. This is because shed 
have had to tick a box on the application form to indicate she wanted it.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it.
Ive taken into account Mrs Hs comments, including what shes said about not knowing she 
had the PPI. But these points dont change my conclusion. Given how long ago it was, it 
is possible that she has simply forgotten that she ticked the box on the application form. 
And without other evidence to support her allegation that the PPI was added without her 
consent, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint based solely on 
her comments.My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman