DRN-4357689
The complaint
Miss G complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited irresponsibly approved a hire 
purchase agreement with her that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In September 2017 Miss G traded her car in and  with a hire purchase agreement from 
Startline  acquired a used car. The agreement required Miss G to make 47 monthly 
payments of £236 followed by a final payment of £237. The sale price of the car was £9,130, 
which combined with the cost of the finance gave a total of £11,322 to pay.
Just under a year later, Miss G started to miss some of the regular payments. Not wanting to 
lose the car, she borrowed money from a friend and paid off the agreement in August 2019.
Miss G complained that Startline shouldnt have agreed to give her the finance. She felt they 
hadnt done enough to confirm her income or review her spending before lending to her.
In response, Startline explained that theyd used information Miss G provided when applying 
for the loan, details from a credit reference agency, and an automated tool that took account 
of the turnover in someones current account. They felt this was enough to satisfy the need 
for a creditworthiness assessment, as set out in regulation.
Miss G didnt agree and brought the complaint to us. I wrote last time why I was inclined to 
uphold her complaint. I said Startline should have looked closer at Miss Gs financial 
circumstances at the time, and if they had they likely wouldnt have lent to her. 
I set out a remedy for this where Startline would have to refund any interest and fees Miss G 
had paid towards the agreement, and remove any negative marks the finance agreement 
had added to her credit record. 
Miss G doesnt appear to have responded to my provisional decision. Ive taken that to mean 
she has no additional information shed like me to consider. 
Startline have provided a new copy of the details they have from the credit record check they 
completed in 2017. They say this corrects an earlier error in the details they sent to us. They 
also explained how they compare Miss Gs income and expenditure, and how that shows 
them she could actually afford the agreement. 
I confirm Ive read and considered these comments before making my final decision for the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the view my conclusion and the outcome I directed last time were 
right for this case. As such, I intend to repeat most of the same details. But Ill add to what I 
wrote last time to show how Ive factored Startlines response into my final decision.
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section five of CONC as it applied 
in 2017 is relevant here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses 
like Startline to complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before 
agreeing to lend someone money.
With these rules in mind, Im going to review Startlines actions in two stages.
1. Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss G would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. If they did, was their decision to then lend to Miss G fair? If they didnt, would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss G could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss G 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances.
Startline have shown us some screenshots of the information they received from their 
checks with a credit reference agency. I can see these showed Miss G was able to pay her 
mortgage  £503 per month  and a hire purchase agreement for her previous car  £159 
per month  without missing any payments.
Startline say they took extra steps to confirm the existing hire purchase agreement would 
end when they provided the finance for Miss Gs new car. That confirmation meant Startline 
could safely not factor that ongoing commitment in to their decision about the new lending.
The new details Startline have provided also show Miss G had taken out nine unsecured 
loans since May 2016. The previous details they provided only showed eight. Only one loan 
 from March 2017  remained as of September 2017. Startline comment that these loans 
had been paid without issues.
While the payment history was marked as either unknown or fine, I find the relatively high 
number of loans over a short period should have prompted Startline to make further 
enquiries. The pattern appears to show Miss G had for a time used short-term lending to 
either boost her finances or repay earlier borrowing. 
Adding to that sort of picture are three items marked Advance Against Income on the latest 
details Startline have provided from the credit check they did in 2017. These werent present 
on the details theyd sent us previously. The most recent of these was from June 2017  
three months prior to the lending being considered by Startline. 
Again, this should have acted as a prompt for Startline to make further enquiries about 
Miss Gs financial circumstances as this sort of repeated short-term lending could suggest 
someone hasnt got enough money each month to afford all their outgoings. 
So I conclude Startline should have made more enquiries about the reasons for the loans 
and advances, to understand what they could mean for the affordability of any future finance offered to Miss G.
As well as the remaining loan and mortgage, the information Startline have provided shows 
Miss G had three credit cards with a total balance owed of £1,633. Last time I noted that the 
record Startline gave us showed payment issues for the card with the largest amount owed 
in the two months prior to lending to Miss G. Startline have now provided a screenshot 
where the payment record for that card has changed. 
The new information from Startline shows the issue with the credit card repayments 
happened 11 and 12 months before the creditworthiness assessment Im considering here. I 
can accept that would have made the credit card appear to be less of a concern during the 
checking process. 
With that said, the short-term borrowing Ive seen  coupled with the length and cost of the 
finance Startline were considering offering  should have prompted Startline to get a better 
understanding of Miss Gs financial circumstances and commitments. So I find the checks 
Startline carried out didnt go far enough in the circumstances of this case.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss G could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
To fully consider Miss Gs circumstances, I find it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Startline to have looked in more detail at her income and expenditure. This 
would have told them more about her circumstances at the time of the agreement, and given 
an insight on her ability to afford it for its full duration. 
Im going to use details from Miss Gs bank statements to see what more detailed checks 
might have seen. Thats not to say Startline should necessarily have looked at Miss Gs bank 
statements. Rather, Im treating the statements as evidence of what would most likely have 
been seen at the time when completing a reasonable check.
Startline havent confirmed what they considered Miss Gs monthly income to be, although 
they have referred to her having a job with a recruitment company. Miss Gs bank 
statements show the salary for that job was £1,549 each month. In addition, the statements 
confirm Miss G received child benefit and support payments of £192 and £450 per month 
respectively. Altogether, that gave Miss G a reliable monthly income of £2,191.
Miss G appears to have received other payments in the months leading up to the lending 
decision in this complaint. But Ive not seen these were linked to formal agreements, or that 
the Miss G could otherwise rely on the payments to persist for the full length of the finance 
agreement in this case. So Im not going to consider these payments when looking at 
Miss Gs income and expenditure.
Sitting against Miss Gs income was monthly expenditure. The statements confirm her 
mortgage cost £503 each month, with a further £15 per month towards home insurance. Her 
council tax and utilities combined seem to come to £397. And I can see Miss G had a loan 
with a monthly repayment of £324 just prior to September 2017. Altogether this comes to 
£1,239 each month. 
Startline have commented that Miss Gs mortgage should be considered as a joint expense. 
They believe she was living with someone at the time of the borrowing. However, that 
doesnt reflect what Ive seen in the bank statements, where it was Miss G alone who made 
the mortgage payment. Im going to base my decision on the actual expenditure, rather than speculating about how Miss G could have handled her finances differently. 
Similarly, Startline have used a lower value for Miss Gs loan repayment in their analysis of 
her expenditure. But Miss Gs bank statements confirm that the monthly loan repayment 
rose to £324 in the month before the finance in this case was considered. Im going to rely 
on the figure I can see Miss G paid, rather than Startlines lower one. 
On top of the outgoings listed above, Miss G would have had to pay for food, childcare, her 
credit cards, and other expenses. Shes told us that food typically cost her £250 per month 
plus £80 for school dinners, while a childminder cost £360. Paying around 5% of the total 
credit card amount owed would also have cost in the region of £80.
Ive decided these should be considered as regular parts of Miss Gs expenditure, as the 
amounts sound broadly in line with what Id expect Miss G to have to pay each month. 
Expenditure like this could have been expected to continue throughout the term of the 
finance agreement.
That means I still arrive at a total expenditure of £2,009, rather than the lower figure Startline 
would prefer to use. And thats before considering any running costs for the car she had or 
the car she was looking to purchase. Comparing this with the £2,191 Ive calculated for her 
reliable income, I find that a reasonable check would likely have concluded Miss G couldnt 
afford the £236 payment this agreement called for. 
Lending to her in that case would have been unreasonable. It follows that I find Startline 
shouldnt have given Miss G this finance.
Putting things right
Miss G has paid off the agreement in this case. That means she now owns the car that was 
sold to her in 2017. Ive decided to leave the cost of that  £9,130  as it was. That reflects 
that Miss G chose to buy the car at that price.
But I find itll be reasonable for Startline to return the cost over and above that amount which 
Miss G has paid as a result of having the finance agreement with them. That can be 
achieved by Startline refunding Miss G any interest or fees shes paid over the £9,130 cost 
of the car.
Ive thought about whether to have Startline pay interest on any refund. Id typically direct 
that sort of remedy when a complainants been deprived the use of their money through 
paying more than they should have. But Ive decided thats not needed here. Thats because 
 as I understand it  the payments to Startline have only exceeded the cash price of the car 
after August 2019 when Miss G borrowed money from a friend to settle the agreement. The 
money used wasnt therefore Miss Gs and shes not been deprived the use of it.
But Startline should remove any negative reporting this credit agreement has added to 
Miss Gs credit record. That will reflect that a more reasonable creditworthiness assessment 
would have meant she wasnt given the lending that caused that negative reporting.
Ive also thought about compensation for the trouble and upset Miss Gs been caused. But 
Ive decided not to direct a remedy for this. I can understand that struggling to make the 
payments needed to meet this agreement would have been distressing for Miss G. But there 
was also a benefit to having the car this agreement allowed Miss G to acquire. Shes 
commented that it was a more spacious car, and replaced one that had a developing 
mechanical issue. I feel ultimately the emotional impact of this case is broadly balanced out 
so that things arent worse than they would have been, if the service had been reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint about Startline 
Motor Finance Limited. To put things right, I direct them to:
refund Miss G the interest and fees Startline have been paid in excess of the cars 
purchase price; and
remove any negative marks the finance agreement in this case has added to 
Miss Gs credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman