DRN-3673372
The complaint
Mr U complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse funds he lost after he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr U met someone online on a social media dating platform (for ease Ill refer 
to as A). They then began speaking via an instant messaging application. After speaking for 
around two weeks, Mr U explains he believed he had a future with A. 
Within their communication, A told Mr U about an opportunity to gain huge profits by 
investing in cryptocurrencies. She introduced Mr U to a trading platform she said he should 
invest in and, also recommended a broker to him, who Ill refer to as CF. Mr U was told by A 
that her uncle worked for CF. 
Mr U says he was initially hesitant to invest but was encouraged by A. Mr U told us he 
looked at the website for CF and this looked legitimate to him. He said he was emotionally 
involved in the relationship with A and didnt think of anything else. He wanted to make more 
money in order to secure a good future with A. 
Mr U told us A helped guide him to set up accounts with two different cryptocurrency 
exchanges  Ill refer to one as B and the other as C  where he could buy cryptocurrency 
for the investment. Mr U says he set up the accounts which he had control of with B and C.  
For completeness, its helpful to set out that Mr U made initial payments from an account he 
held with a different bank  Ill call Bank B. Hes explained from his account with Bank B, he 
made an initial payment of £500 which he sent to B. From his account at B he then 
transferred his funds to CF. Mr U told us he made $200 from one transaction and so he 
thought the investment was legitimate. Mr U has told us that he also invested around 
£10,000 from his account with Bank B which he says made around £7,000. He did request to 
withdraw money but says he was told by CF that he wouldnt be able to until a certain 
balance was reached, which he adds was confirmed to him by A. 
Mr U says he then lost the money he invested from Bank B. To get this money back he was 
told hed need to invest more. Mr U was then persuaded by A to take out two loans with 
HSBC totalling £25,000. He says he was told by A the reasons to give for the loans. He then 
borrowed just over £5,300 from a friend which he also used to invest.  
The transactions made and other relevant activity are set out in the table below.
Date of payment Type of payment Merchant Amount
13/06/2021 Loan One Capital £15,000
13/06/2021 Faster Payment B £10,000
14/06/2021 Faster Payment B £5,000
16/06/2021 Loan Two Capital £10,000
16/06/2021 Faster Payment B £10,000
14/07/2021 Incoming credit £5,359
14/07/2021 Faster Payment C £5,400
Total loss £30,400
Mr U explains he saw he was gaining his money back and also the investment was growing. 
He requested a withdrawal. He was told by CF hed need to pay a 10% release risk fee to 
process the withdrawal, at which point he says he became aware hed been the victim of a 
scam. Mr U told A about this and she told him to borrow more money. He says it was then 
that he became suspicious of A and stopped his contact with her. 
Mr U reported the fraud to HSBC and asked them to refund him. 
HSBC investigated Mr Us fraud claim but declined to refund him. HSBC explained that the 
payments Mr U made werent eligible under the Contingent Reimbursement Code (The CRM 
Code) as the funds went from an account in Mr Us name at HSBC to an account in his 
name with B and C  and the CRM Code specifically doesnt cover payments in that 
situation. HSBC recommended Mr U liaise directly with B and C about the recovery of his 
funds. HSBC also said it had reviewed Mr Us loan applications and there hadnt been a 
bank error. It said the applications had been processed correctly in line with its internal 
procedures.           
Mr U has told us he also reported the scam to Bank B. In this decision I will only be 
commenting on the payments Mr U made from his HSBC bank account. I have made 
references to Bank B only for the purpose of setting out what has happened here. Mr U told 
us Bank B refunded the money he lost from his account with it. As a complaint about Bank B 
has not been progressed or considered by our service, I make no findings regarding the 
payments Mr U made with Bank B. 
Mr U wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint to our service. An 
Investigator looked into his complaint and upheld the complaint in part. She said the 
payments Mr U made were unusual for his account activity. She noted hed taken out two 
loans which allowed him to carry out three payments to B. She considered HSBC ought to 
have been concerned about the payments Mr U was making and had it intervened and 
asked questions - she thought it wouldve been apparent Mr U was falling victim to a scam. 
However, she also thought Mr U should bear some responsibility, as she thought there were 
factors which ought to have prompted him to conduct further research. 
On this basis, she recommended HSBC refund 50% of Mr Us loss from and including the 
first payment made, along with 8% interest (excluding the payment made from money 
borrowed from Mr Us friend), 50% of the interest and charges on the second loan Mr U took 
out and, pay £150 compensation. 
HSBC disagreed with the outcome reached by our Investigator. In brief it said:
The payments Mr U made were to legitimate organisations and there is no indication 
that he didnt have full control of the accounts. It referenced a previous decision 
issued by our service and said our Investigators view cannot be said to represent our 
services view on good industry practice at the relevant time.That Mr U was dishonest about the purpose of the loans he took out and had he 
been truthful about the purpose, the money wouldnt have been loaned to him and 
the payments to B couldnt have taken place. 
Mr Us actions demonstrate he was determined to make the payments and it doesnt 
consider he wouldve changed his course because of a warning from it. 
Whilst a 50% deduction has been made due to Mr Us conduct, it considers he 
should be fully responsible for his loss. It adds Mr U was determined to make the 
payments come what may, regardless of intervention. 
After considering HSBCs points, our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her position. 
As HSBC disagreed, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Following a review of the case, I reached out to both HSBC and Mr U to set out what I 
thought was fair and reasonable redress recommendations. Both parties have had the 
opportunity to consider these and I will explain more below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I partially uphold this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
It's not in dispute that Mr U authorised the scam payments. Mr U was duped by the 
scammers into instructing the bank to transfer money to two cryptocurrency accounts which 
he had control of and from there he sent the money onto the scammers. So, while Mr U 
didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, and the terms and condition of his account he is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result.
As our Investigator explained, the payments Mr U made as part of this scam are not covered 
by the CRM Code. This is because the CRM Code covers APP scam payments when the 
funds are transferred to another person and not to a consumers own account. In this case, 
Mr U sent the money to legitimate cryptocurrency exchange accounts that he says he set up 
and were in his own name. 
Nonetheless, there are some situations in which HSBC should reasonably have had a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding these transactions. I consider that as a matter of good 
practice, HSBC shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Ive therefore looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should HSBC have 
recognised Mr Us payments as being suspicious and intervened to try and mitigate the risk 
of him falling victim to financial harm from fraud. Our Investigator within her assessment didnt consider the online warnings given to Mr U 
when he made the payments to have been effective or impactful. HSBC in response 
commented that this appears to reference the CRM Code which doesnt apply here. In any 
event, it doesnt accept this view. HSBC say that had Mr U selected the correct payment 
options, he wouldve been told to check the company he was dealing with was genuine and 
registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I dont think I need to specifically 
comment on the online warnings Mr U saw when making the payments in this particular 
case. This is because the CRM Code doesnt apply to the payments Mr U made, and Im 
persuaded written warnings werent enough of an intervention in the circumstances. I think 
HSBC ought to have done more here and contacted him about the payments. I will now 
explain why. 
Having considered the fraudulent payments against Mr Us usual account activity, I think the 
initial payment made was unusual enough that HSBC ought to have intervened before 
processing it. I say this because from reviewing Mr Us bank statements, from July 2020 up 
to the scam payments, I can see Mr U seldom made payments of any substantial value. The 
payments made by Mr U were generally low in value. In this case, there was an incoming 
loan credit of £15,000 and the same day the loan funds credited the account, Mr U made a 
payment of £10,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange - B. I think this payment was considerably 
out of character given his previous account usage and account activity. The payment made 
to the cryptocurrency exchange utilised two thirds of the loan credit into the account. I cant 
see Mr U had previously made a payment for anywhere near this amount before and it was 
to a new payee. There is also no evidence of large payments coming into his account 
previously and then being paid straight out. So, Im persuaded this ought to have caused 
concern to the bank.  
While I accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise, both the FCA and Action 
Fraud had warned of cryptocurrency exchange and forex trading scams in 2018. And in May 
2019 Action Fraud published further warnings that such scams had tripled in the past year. 
This type of insight is something regulated businesses including HSBC, ought to take notice 
of. So even if Mr U had been sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, it 
didnt follow that his money was safe, or that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud 
or a scam. 
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr U about the payment, Im 
persuaded the answers he more likely than not would have given, would have revealed what 
he was doing. Whilst I accept it had no duty to protect him from a poor investment choice, or 
give investment advice, it could have provided Mr U with information about the high risks 
associated with these types of investments and common hallmarks of scams, which were 
present in this case. 
Im mindful HSBC disagrees and doesnt think intervention wouldve made a difference here. 
HSBC has highlighted Mr U was untruthful about the purpose of the loans he took out. It 
says Mr Us actions demonstrate that he was determined to make the payments and it 
doesnt consider he wouldve changed his course because of a warning from it. It considers 
Mr U was determined to make the payments come what may, regardless of intervention and 
believes he wouldve been more likely to pay attention to the scammer rather than the bank.  
Ive thought carefully about this point, but Im afraid I dont agree. Mr U told us he followed 
the instructions of A as to what reasons to put for the loans on the basis that it would help 
the likeliness of the loans being approved. While I accept the reasons given for the loans 
were not a true reflection of what the funds were intended for, I dont think it automatically 
follows that he wouldve deliberately deceived the bank or not been honest about what the 
payments were for had the bank questioned him about them. It is difficult to know exactly what would have happened had Mr U been contacted at the time 
and asked a few questions about the activity he was carrying out. But I think its likely he 
would have revealed he was making payments to cryptocurrency accounts hed set up in his 
name and from there sending funds to a broker he was introduced to by A  whom hed 
recently met (but not met in person) and believed himself to be in a relationship with. And 
while Mr U followed the instructions of A as to the reasons for the loans, Ive not seen 
anything that suggests he was provided with a cover story. So had HSBC asked Mr U 
questions about the initial £10,000 payment to B, I think it likely the bank wouldve seen that 
he was using loan funds to make the payment. On asking Mr U about the loan money that 
was being used to make a payment to a cryptocurrency exchange, Im persuaded he 
wouldve shared hed been encouraged by A to borrow money to keep investing. 
Even, if only some of the above was revealed, I think this ought fairly and reasonably to have 
given HSBC cause for concern and would have put them in a position to give a very strong 
warning to Mr U that he was falling victim to a scam - given that these are common 
hallmarks of investment scams. 
I am mindful that Mr U had already invested funds from his account with Bank B. But Ive not 
been given any compelling evidence that he wouldve carried on regardless of any warning 
provided by the bank. In any event, I think its likely that a conversation would have likely 
caused the bank to have such concern that it may have had reasonable grounds to prevent 
Mr U from carrying out further transactions. 
Im also not persuaded that such intervention would have been any less effective because of 
Mr Us circumstances and relationship with A. I say this as Mr U did stop his contact with A 
after she continued to encourage him to borrow more money. And as Ive said, Ive not seen 
anything that suggests Mr U was given a cover story and as the bank wouldve been 
speaking with Mr U, it wouldve been able to take the necessary steps and advise him on the 
common features of the type of scam he was falling victim to. 
So, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think HSBCs failure to pick up on the 
unusual activity has caused Mr U loss. 
But that isnt the end of the matter, I also need to consider whether Mr U ought to bear some 
responsibility for the losses he incurred. HSBC has stated Mr U should be held fully 
responsible for his loss. As Ive explained above, I satisfied HSBC ought to have intervened 
and asked Mr U about the payment he was asking to make before processing it. And on 
balance, I think it is more likely than not that intervention would have made a difference for 
the reasons Ive already explained. 
However, I do agree that from the outset there were causes for concern that ought to have 
made Mr U pause and further question what he was being told. Mr U himself, has said he 
has part responsibility for what has happened. From the messages Mr U has given to us of 
his conversations over the instant messaging app, I can see early on he commented he was 
reluctant to communicate with people from the social media platform as there are many 
scams. Mr U was also told As family member worked for CF and he was in contact with him 
about investing. Ive seen that at one point he mentioned he needed to assess his risks and 
that he also referred to the family member as bullish to A. Mr U was persistently 
encouraged to borrow funds in order to carry on investing  whether this be from family or 
friends, loans or loan sharks. I think this ought to have been a flag to Mr U as he was 
investing beyond his means. And while I recognise there was an aspect where Mr U 
believed his actions were linked in some part to his relationship with A, I think her instructing 
him to choose different reasons for the loans to better the chances of him being approved for 
the borrowing was a further factor that ought to have given him pause for further thought. All in all, I think there was enough going on here that ought to have raised questions with 
Mr U prior to the first payment he made and that ought fairly and reasonably to have 
prompted him to do further research. It follows that Im satisfied Mr U ought to bear some 
responsibility for his losses by way of contributory negligence and the compensation should 
be reduced accordingly. Having thought about this carefully, I find a reduction of 50% 
compensation to be appropriate. Both parties could have done more here to prevent the 
financial loss.
For completeness, I note HSBC raised the final payment, which was funded from the money 
borrowed by Mr Us friend, is not a loss suffered by him and should not be recoverable by 
Mr U. Mr U has told us he has not repaid the money he borrowed from his friend and so Im 
satisfied it is fair and reasonable that this loss be included within my recommendations. 
Although I have kept in mind where these funds originated from when thinking about any 
interest award recommendation.  
My final decision
My final decision is to partially uphold this complaint and for HSBC UK Bank Plc to: 
Refund 50% of the money Mr U lost to the scam, from and including the first payment 
made. 
Pay 8% interest on the amount being refunded that Mr U had sent to the scammer 
from his own money.
Had HSBC refunded Mr U at the time, its likely that he would have repaid 50% of
the first loan immediately - so he should now get 50% of the interest and charges he
paid towards the first loan refunded.
The second loan hadnt been taken out yet - so he wouldnt have made payment 
three. So, the same principle applies - HSBC should now refund 50% of the interest 
and charges.
In relation to both the points above, Mr U should receive interest (likely 8% 
depending on where the funds came from) on any payments he made towards the 
loan.
As the final payment was money from Mr Us friend, who presumably didnt charge 
any interest, he shouldnt receive any interest on this amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman