DRN-3559205
The complaint
Mr G complains about advice given by St James Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) to
invest in an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). Mr G says the advice was unsuitable, in
particular it was too high risk and SJP misled him about the timescale for investment.
What happened
In 2015, Mr G sought financial advice from SJP. The purpose of the recommendation was to
provide advice about investment of funds from the sale of an asset, which had been sold for
£615,000 in 2014, triggering a substantial capital gains tax liability.
It is common ground that advice was sought around tax efficient investment and SJP had
already advised Mr and Mrs G to invest £115,000 each into a loan plan, with the aim of
freezing the growing value of their prospective inheritance tax (IHT) liability whilst retaining
access to capital. No complaint is made about that recommendation.
SJP then recommended investing part of the remaining funds, £150,000 each, into EIS on
the basis that capital gains could be deferred, 30% income tax relief could be claimed and if
the investment was held for over two years, inheritance tax relief was also available. Further,
the particular EIS targeted capital preservation with future options that might enable Mr G to
reduce capital gains tax in the longer term.
Mr G recalls that information was provided about tax efficiency but says the high risk to
capital was not explained. No suitability letter was provided before or after the
recommendation was made. The adviser completed the paperwork for the investment on
behalf of Mr G and asked him to sign it on the day funds were transferred. The adviser also
drove Mr G and his wife to the bank to ensure the funds transfer completed. Mr G further
complains that hes been unable to access the capital for over six years. He was not advised
that it could take significantly longer than three years to liquidate the funds.
Mr G also complains that no information about SJPs fees and fees to the EIS provider were
explained or provided before the investment was made. The application form was completed
by the adviser.
The value of the EIS has significantly reduced over time, having lost around 70% as at June
2020 and the investment remains illiquid. Mr G says he has sustained a significant capital
loss for which he seeks compensation.
The representative acting on behalf of Mr G, emphasises the distress and upset this matter
has caused Mr G and his family.
SJP maintain that the recommendation was suitable as the tax benefits met Mr Gs
objectives at the time. They say that investment into an EIS scheme was discussed over a
period of time (around six months) and the high risk of investing in such a scheme was set
out in the product providers Information Memorandum (IM), which was provided to Mr G.
Further, Mr G discussed his concerns around specific risks from Brexit and currency
exchange directly with the product provider and was satisfied with the responses he received
at the time.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought the investment was in line with Mr Gs
attitude to risk and thought Mr G had been made aware of the inherent risks associated with
the EIS investment. Whilst Mr G had not taken much risk in the past, our investigator thought
Mr G was willing to take higher risks to secure the tax benefits. Our investigator thought the
timing around disposal of assets was set out in the IM and the charges were set out in the
application form and the IM.
Mr G disagrees with the view.
I issued a provisional decision in April, upholding the complaint, after considering all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and reasonable. I took into 
account that at the time of seeking advice, Mr G was retired and jointly owned his residential 
home with Mrs G outright, held £191,178 in insurance-based investments (namely bonds), 
jointly owned other valuable collectables and had a joint disposable income of just over £600 
a month from a net joint monthly income of just over £4,000 (a combination of pension and
investment drawdowns). Mr and Mrs G accepted a recommendation in June 2015 to invest
£115,000 each into a loan trust plan from £607,000 that had been held on deposit, leaving a
balance of funds in cash. This decision considered the advice to invest in an EIS from the
remaining cash funds.
Attitude to risk
At the time of the recommendation Mr Gs other investments were mostly held in distribution
bonds or physical assets. But Mr G had experience of investing in stocks and shares
ISAs and in specialist unit trust funds such as in the technology sector, in the past.
In the suitability letter, SJP categorised Mr G as an upper medium risk investor, being willing
to, invest a proportion of your overall wealth in higher-risk assets with the potential for
significant IHT savings. You understand the additional risks of investing in UK smaller
companies, acknowledging the more illiquid nature of such investments compared to larger
listed companies, and are comfortable with some of your capital being invested in these
markets. You are investing for three years or longer, and recognise that you may experience
significant falls in the value of your investments.
Mr G said he didnt receive the suitability letter and was shocked by the assessment of risk
he had now seen. As the suitability letter post-dates the transfer of funds to the provider by
around one week, I accepted Mr G wouldnt have seen it before the decision to invest was
made. Further, in response to the complaint raised on Mr Gs behalf, SJP said Mr and Mrs G
were ordinarily medium risk investors who were prepared to accept upper medium risk for
this particular investment in return for the tax benefits on offer. This suggested that SJP 
knew Mr Gs overall risk appetite was lower.
It was said on Mr Gs behalf that the adviser led him to believe that income could be drawn 
from the loan trust and capital gains would be payable on the sums withdrawn. Whereas the 
EIS was recommended to lock away the remaining proceeds from the sale of the asset for 
up to three years with the benefit of capital gains tax being deferred. That was consistent 
with commentary in the recommendation for the loan plan, in which SJP also recommended
paying a portion of CGT and referred to the balance of funds being invested in EIS, which
after the initial qualification period could then be used to wash out your Capital Gains
Allowances on an annual basis whilst deferring the CGT liability on this element of your
capital which would become IHT exempt after two years. It was also supported by the
illustration provided by the adviser, which showed projections over time with annual
withdrawal of the capital gains tax allowance whilst recording that the capital investment
would remain the same over time. The projections for inheritance tax savings in thesuitability letter also assumed the capital sum would not deplete. It was my view that 
comments referring to Mr G as a medium risk investor and the presentation of the 
investment as maintaining capital, supported Mr Gs assertion that he didnt intend to expose 
the capital sum to high risk.
So, for the reasons given, I was not satisfied that the assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk 
was accurate. On balance, I was not persuaded that the particular differences between EIS 
and the other investments held by Mr G were explained by SJP before the investment was 
made, especially the concentration and risks with early stage investment in unlisted 
companies. I thought the adviser likely misled Mr G into thinking that for a little more risk he 
could achieve tax benefits.
Pressure to invest
Mr and Mrs G recalled a sense of urgency on the advisers part. When the EIS provider
launched a new scheme, the adviser encouraged quick action and accompanied Mr and Mrs
G to their accountant to discuss tax implications. Id seen that the application forms were
completed by the adviser and it didnt appear to be disputed that he drove Mr and Mrs G to
the bank to make the transfers. The forms were signed by them on 17 September 2015 and
bank transfers were made that day. Whilst I accepted that the application forms and 
transfers were completed on the same day, I also considered that discussions about this
investment had been ongoing over a number of months and the scheme appears to have
been popular. So, on balance, I didnt think it is likely that Mr G was pressurised into going
ahead with the investment, but as Ive concluded below, I was not satisfied that the risks 
were adequately explained.
Illiquidity
Mr G said he wasnt advised about the risk of his money remaining tied up beyond three
years. That seemed to be supported by the adviser who referred to Mr G being able to make
withdrawals after the qualifying period. The IM highlighted that no guarantee could be made
about disposal of the investment, but suggested the period from sending in the application
form to selling the shares would be around 4.5 years (or longer), with the earliest exit point
likely to be at least four years. But there was nothing to show that the adviser addressed this
directly with Mr G when considering the objectives. I hadnt seen anything which showed the
adviser had an understanding of or advised Mr G specifically about how capital was to be
released in the context of this particular investment. I thought that would have been a 
relevant factor in the risk assessment, when assessing the prospects of partially redeeming 
capital within a given timeframe. A response from the provider in November 2019, explained 
that it was down to the discretion of investment managers as to when underlying assets of 
an investee company might be sold and the sales process alone could take six-twelve 
months or longer. Usually they waited for all the companies in the tranche as a whole to 
finish trading for three years before starting any sale process. So, timelines werent 
guaranteed.
The illustrations provided by the adviser simply showed how the product could work, 
showing withdrawals of the capital gains allowance from the EIS after the third year, which 
wasnt a realistic timeline given the information in the IM. As Mr G was seeking and relying 
upon professional advice, it wasnt enough for the adviser to expect Mr G to have identified
different factors from the IM. It was for the adviser to assess the risks within the suitability
assessment. And it was clear that Mr G hadnt expected his funds to still be tied up over six
years later.
Risk warnings
Mr G was clear that SJP didnt properly explain the nature of EIS or the risks to him.
SJP said Mr G had details of the main features and benefits in the IM and their EIS leaflet.
Id seen that the IM set out the investment strategy of capital preservation rather thangrowth. This was separate to the inherent risks of investing in an EIS scheme, which were
set out in a risks section of the IM. The introduction also said,
Octopus EIS should be considered a high-risk investment, and as such isnt for everyone.
Even though we target capital preservation, your capital is still at risk.
But I thought it was important to highlight again that it was for SJP to make a suitable
recommendation that met Mr Gs needs, having assessed his attitude to risk, objectives,
capacity loss and circumstances, including highlighting the level of risk. It wasnt enough for
SJP to rely on Mr G reading the IM.
From what Id seen, it appeared that the adviser downplayed the risks with the investment.
As Id set out above, in illustrations the adviser held out that the capital sum would not
depreciate over time.
In a letter to SJP complaints team the adviser explained that discussions around the
suitability of an EIS began in some detail after the individual loan plans were arranged but
there was nothing to show that the adviser highlighted the nature of the risk of investing in 
EIS, as opposed to focusing on tax benefits. The adviser said,
. .the xx group were used to provide information at this time as to what an EIS is and how it
works, the associated risks of investing in such a plan, the costs and charges for the
arrangement . . The one re-occurring theme in the literature is the higher risk nature of such
investments and in particular with regards to liquidity . . .
The adviser went on to say that he had not been qualified to address certain risk associated
questions around areas such as Brexit implications, so arranged for Mr and Mrs G to speak
directly with a fund manager of the EIS. Nowhere in the letter did the adviser say that he
explained and took into account the high-risk nature of the EIS products.
The adviser conceded that a meeting with Mr and Mrs G and the representative at Mr Gs
home had been on a very much higher level and focused on the concept of what an EIS is,
the basis on this occasion for the investment in solar powered farms in Italy, the taxation
benefits with regards to CGT and IHT as well as income tax reclaims. The focus on taxation
benefits was in line with Mr Gs and the representatives recollection of events. Whilst it was 
fair to say that overall tax benefits could mitigate some of the capital risk, in this instance, Mr 
G wasnt looking for income tax relief.
In my view the adviser gave too much weight to the potential capital gains tax benefits.
There was nothing to show that the adviser balanced that against and/or addressed the high
risk of investing in an EIS, indeed the adviser conceded that he spoke about,  . . how the
scheme would provide a lower risk approach to investment using the Retain Facility . .
namely how funds realised after sale of the underlying asset could be reinvested retaining
the EIS status. But this would have resulted in Mr G tying up his capital for longer, whilst
continuing to expose it to the risk of significant losses and I wasnt persuaded that was in line
with his objectives. EISs are non-mainstream, complex, illiquid, specialised and speculative
investments, where there is a real risk of losing the original, capital investment.
Whilst the focus on the capital gains benefits was highlighted, I was not persuaded that Mr G
understood the level of risk he was taking, and SJP hadnt demonstrated that he was in fact
willing to take that level of risk to achieve his objectives at the material time.
SJP also accepted there was a higher concentration of risk due to the lack of diversification
with funds being invested into one EIS where investment was made solely within the
renewable energy sector. Whilst the IM stated investment may be in one or a small numberof companies, with the investments being in one sector, Therefore, there is likely to be
limited diversification, which could increase the risk for investors. SJP said Mr G was
prepared to take more risk to secure the capital gains tax benefits but Id not seen anything
from the adviser drawing attention to this factor prior to the suitability letter, which was
written after the funds were invested.
In his letter the adviser said he discussed the delay in deployment of the capital in review
meetings and described the investment moving through a J curve, with net asset values
falling on capital deployment. He maintained that Mr and Mrs G were aware of the risk of
values dropping but did not raise any concerns at the time. But given the early stage of
investment, in my view this didnt show that Mr and Mrs G understood the overall risks.
The absence of explanation from the adviser about the risk of the investment was consistent
with Mr Gs recollection. On balance, I was satisfied that risk of investing in EISs was not
adequately explained to Mr G at the time. I thought it wasnt enough for SJP to rely upon the 
EIS Declaration, which simply said investors could get back less than they invested, 
especially as I accepted that the form was completed by the adviser leaving only the 
signature for Mr G to complete on the day the transfer provided for investment. It was for 
SJP, as the adviser, to enable Mr G to understand the particular features and risk of this 
investment, not just the concept of an EIS.
Suitability
The financial review undertaken by the adviser recorded that Mr and Mrs G wished to use
the capital sum to provide an income stream and wanted to invest for the benefit of family
heirs. Tax efficiency was also to be considered, particularly consideration of CGT liability
arising in January 2016, estimated to be around £160,000.
The suitability letter for the EIS referred to objectives of inheritance tax mitigation and capital
gains deferral. But I thought it was more likely than not that the main focus of the EIS
recommendation was capital gains tax deferral.
The representative acting on Mr Gs behalf also recalled that the adviser had consistently
provided assurance that the benefits of investment in terms of mitigating capital gains would
far outweigh the small potential for loss. As set out above, that recollection of events was
consistent with way in which potential returns and withdrawals were displayed in illustrations
at the time.
It was said that the adviser recommended this particular EIS as it gave the option for Mr G to
transfer the holding to a similar scheme at the end of the qualifying period, enabling roll over
of the CGT liability or a partial/full exit. It was then said a partial exit would enable a sell 
down of holdings up to the value of the annual CGT allowances, enabling Mr G to withdraw 
funds in stages, whilst managing down the deferred CGT. Whereas the suitability letter 
repeatedly referred to capital gains tax deferral, rather than reduction. In any event, as Id 
said, the information about using the capital gains tax allowance was misleading because it 
was held out that the capital sum would remain the same over time. So, I didnt agree that 
the reality actually met Mr Gs objectives.
I thought it was entirely plausible that Mr G relied upon what he was told by the adviser. The 
suitability letter was dated after the decision to invest was made and after the documents 
were signed. Mr G consistently said no such letter was received and SJP hadnt provided 
anything to show that it was sent. But even if it was sent, it was clear from the timeline that it 
would have been sent after the decision to invest was made so the content would not have 
formed part of the decision making process, accordingly, I placed limited weight upon it.
On balance, Im not persuaded that capital gains tax deferral or inheritance tax exemption
was more important to Mr G than capital preservation (recorded as a priority in the financialreview). Even the adviser recognised that inheritance tax benefit was not a key consideration
at the time. As Mr Gs representative highlighted, the risk with the investment was
disproportionate to the benefits obtained. Also given the objectives and the recognition by
the adviser that Mr and Mrs G foresaw a greater need income in the future and were looking
to access their capital, I thought Mr G was exposed to more risk than he wanted to take.
Further, I thought Mr G had intended to have access to the funds after the three-year period. 
As addressed above, I didnt think it was made clear that the funds could remain illiquid for a
number of years and there was nothing to show that Mr G wanted to tie the funds up for a
lengthy period. Indeed, SJP accepted the opposite in their response to the complaint, 
namely that Mr G had an objective of being able to access capital to supplement his income 
and fund additional expenditure as well as gifting. And even though SJP said partial
withdrawal was a possibility, I hadnt seen any assessment of the likelihood of this, which
would have been a key factor when assessing the suitability of this recommendation.
I considered that some funds were being retained on deposit and Mr G held other assets,
so Mr G had some capacity for loss. But given the objectives, I was persuaded by the
representatives assertion that had Mr G been made aware of the risks that capital losses
could outweigh the tax benefits, he and Mrs G would have paid the capital gains tax and
invested the balance of funds into a less risky product. I considered that a consistent and
plausible account has been given on behalf of Mr G and given his circumstances at the time,
I didnt think he would have risked losing a substantial amount of the £150,000 investment.
Overall, therefore, I was not satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for Mr Gs 
needs.
Fees and charges
The representative said no information was given about the fees charged by SJP and the
EIS provider.
It wasnt disputed that Mr and Mrs G had paid for professional advice for years, so I thought 
it was unlikely that they didnt expect to pay any fees. SJPs fees were set out in the 
documents signed by Mr G and the providers fees were referred to and set out in detail in 
the IM. The adviser was adamant that the fees and charges had been discussed as SJP 
didnt take ongoing advice charges for this type of investment, which was another reason 
why it provided greater value for money. Also, SJP confirmed that the account management 
charges (AMCs) were not applied when the investment was worth less than the net 
investment amount.
On balance, I considered that it was more likely than not that adequate information was 
given about fees, so I didnt uphold this aspect of the complaint.
conclusion
As Mr G was receiving advice from SJP, it was reasonable for him to assume that investing
in the EIS was suitable for his circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. I was not
satisfied that Mr G wouldve invested if hed understood the risks involved and overall, I 
wasnt persuaded that the recommendation was suitable. Mr G was very clear that he
didnt have a high attitude to risk, which was known to his long-standing adviser. It was also
relevant that Mr Gs circumstances were going to change in that his income need was likely
to increase in the future.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I considered how to put Mr G back into the position hed have
probably been in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice, which wasnt as straightforward 
as simply refunding the original investment.
I was mindful that had it not been for the unsuitable advice, Mr G wouldnt have had thepotential EIS tax relief and he wouldnt have whatever value (if any) the EIS now has. The
investments had also now been held for longer than three years.
Given the information Mr G provided, I thought hed have invested differently. It wasnt
possible for me to say precisely what he would have done, so I considered what I thought 
was fair and reasonable given his circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr G fairly, SJP must:
Compare the performance of Mr Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Investment 
nameStatus benchmark from (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Octopus EIS Still exists FTSE WMA Date of Date of my 8% simple
Stock Market investment decision per year from
Income Total date of
Return Index decision to
and then date of
from 1 settlement (if
March 2017 compensation
the FTSE is not paid
UK Private within 28
Investor days of the
Income Total business
Return Index being notified
of
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end
date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be surrendered or readily sold on the
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr G agrees to SJP taking
ownership of the investment, if it wished to. If it is not possible for SJP to take ownership,
then it can request an undertaking from Mr G that he repays to SJP any amount he might
receive from the investment in future.
SJP may also add to the actual value any available tax reliefs Mr G has received by virtue of
making the investment. It may ask him for evidence of this, or assume he has availed
himself of all available relief at his marginal rate of tax.
For ease it can calculate the value of the available relief and add it to the actual value as one
figure at the end.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I decided on this method of compensation because:Mr G was willing to accept some investment risk.
The WMA index and Private Investor index are made up of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
They would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to 
get a higher return.
Although they are called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use them as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr Gs circumstances and risk attitude.
I have also taken into account that Mr G suffered distress at being unable to access his
funds, whilst watching the value deplete overtime. I considered that it was more likely than 
not that he suffered distress and upset as a result of the advice given and the subsequent
locking into an investment, which was unsuitable for his needs. In my view it was fair and
reasonable to make an award of compensation and I consider that £500 was a fair sum.
The parties have now considered the provisional decision. Mr Gs representative broadly 
agreed with the provisional decision but submitted that the award for distress and 
inconvenience was disproportionately low given the impact upon Mr G. Further, SJPs full 
fees should be refunded in light of their poor advice and service.
SJP disagreed with the provisional decision. They maintained that the recommendation was 
suitable, weight should be attached to the suitability letter, Mr Gs attitude to risk was 
consistent with that undertaken for another investment (the loan plan) and no complaint was 
made about that risk assessment, Mr G was adequately informed of the risks given he 
signed the EIS declaration and signed to say hed read the IM, SJP highlighted other 
decisions and said that Mr G had sufficient capacity for loss.
Ive now reviewed these additional comments along with all the information provided in order 
to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not persuaded to change my original outcome.
Ive taken into account SJPs comments about their process at the time, whereby a suitability 
letter could be sent within 10 calendar days after application. SJP repeat that weight should 
be given to the suitability letter, but Im not persuaded this changes anything. For the 
reasons given in the provisional decision, I remain of the view that in this case, limited weight 
should be attached to the content of the recommendation provided after investment as made 
and I place more weight on the consumers recollection of events and documents provided 
before the funds were invested. I think it is likely that Mr G would have relied upon the verbal 
assurances, coupled with the illustrations provided by the adviser. Whilst it might be that no 
guarantees were made as to returns, it remains my view that the adviser held out that the 
capital sum would be unlikely to change over time and that was misleading given this was a 
high risk investment.
As to Mr Gs attitude to risk, SJP havent been clear. Initially they said Mr G had a medium 
risk appetite but was prepared to take more risk with this investment to gain tax advantages. 
Later they said Mr G was properly assessed as having an upper medium attitude to risk 
more generally because the same assessment was made for the loan plan and no complaint 
was raised about that assessment. First, its important to note that Mr G and his wife have consistently said they did not receive a suitability letter for the loan plan or for the EIS 
investment. These letters were first seen in 2020 in response to an information request. It is 
Mr and Mrs Gs case that if they had seen an overall risk assessment of upper medium 
they would have questioned it. Second and in any event, theres still nothing to show that 
this adviser properly explained the high-risk nature of the EIS investment to Mr G. 
As to the presentation of risks, the information within the IM is a factor, but as Ive explained 
it isnt enough for the adviser to rely upon Mr G reading the IM. It was for the adviser to 
make a suitable recommendation. Given the consistent account by Mr G and his 
representative, coupled with the presentation of the illustrations, it remains my view that the 
risks were downplayed because the risk of losing all or a substantial amount of the capital 
investment was not made clear. 
SJP have pointed to other outcomes in different cases. But as I have explained to SJP, each 
complaint is assessed on its own particular facts and in this case I have placed more weight 
upon the timing of signing of the EIS declaration and the oral assurances which I consider 
were likely provided by the adviser. I have found the testimony of Mr G, his wife and their 
representative to be persuasive and consistent and given that professional advice was being 
provided, it was not unreasonable for the consumer to rely upon what he was told by the 
adviser.
Taking everything into account, for the reasons set out in the provisional decision and above, 
I am not persuaded that the recommendation met Mr Gs objectives and I find that it exposed 
him to more risk than he wanted to take. It is therefore fair and reasonable to put things right 
for Mr G.
Putting things right
SJP encouraged me to consider tax relief when calculating redress. I agree that any tax 
relief obtained should be added to the actual value, to avoid double recovery and this has 
been addressed above. As to CGT deferral and potential IHT savings, SJP havent provided 
evidence of any tangible financial benefit yet received by Mr G, so Im not persuaded its fair 
and reasonable to include them in the calculation of losses. 
In my view the method of redress proposed in the provisional decision, set out above, 
remains fair and reasonable to compensate for any financial losses.
Mr Gs representative said the compensation award for distress was disproportionate and 
she emphasised the impact this matter has had upon Mr G and his wife. Its clear Mr G and 
his wife have found the locking up of their capital and subsequent loss in value to be 
distressing and Ive taken into account the inconvenience theyve faced pushing for 
information from SJP, all set against the background of difficult personal circumstances. But 
I am also mindful that they have worked together to progress the complaint and that I am 
awarding like compensation for distress and inconvenience to them individually. So overall, it 
remains my view that £500 each is fair and reasonable compensation.
Mr G also said SJPs fees should be refunded in full because of the poor service provided. 
The recommended redress compensates Mr G against the benchmark for the gross 
investment, not the net figure after deduction of fees. So, Id like to reassure Mr G that this 
has been factored into the redress calculation. And I dont agree that SJP should refund the 
fees in full because Mr G would likely have taken advice in any event.
So, on balance, I consider that the method of redress set out above plus £500 award for 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable to put things right for Mr G.My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that
SJP pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that SJP should pay the
amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress or
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the balance as set out above. SJP
should provide details of its calculations to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that SJP pays Mr G the balance plus any interest on the
balance as set out above.
If SJP does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment currently illiquid
should be retained by Mr G. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from the
investment together with the compensation paid by SJP (excluding any interest) equates to
the full fair compensation as set out above.
SJP may request an undertaking from Mr G that either he repays to SJP any amount Mr
G may receive from the investment thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to SJP
at that point.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind SJP. It is
unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept
this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman