DRN-1891892
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) as it declined to pay for all 
the repairs he claimed for under his home emergency policy.
Reference to British Gas includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr H holds a Home Care policy with British Gas that provides for repairs to be made to his 
plumbing, such as leaking hot and cold water pipes. In October 2018 an engineer acting on 
behalf of British Gas fitted two new taps in Mr Hs bath. Mr H contacted British Gas in 
December 2018 to say water was leaking from the bath taps and damaging the ceiling 
below. An engineer came to refit the taps soon afterwards. British Gas said it wanted to wait 
for the ceiling to dry before making any further repairs. When British Gas visited the property 
a couple of months later Mr H wasnt happy with the service it provided. He disputed their 
assessment of the damage and he wasnt happy with the comments made by one of the 
engineers. British Gas said the ceiling boards were sound and it was only a portion of the 
artex that needed to be patched and repainted. Mr H thought the ceiling boards needed to 
be replaced. Hed lost confidence in British Gas and asked it to pay £245 for a third party 
(company B) to carry out the repairs. British Gas didnt accept the full repairs suggested by 
company B were necessary but offered to pay £150 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H wasnt 
happy with that and brought his complaint to this service.
During our investigation Mr H instructed an independent surveyor to look at the damage. The 
surveyor said the plasterboard needed replacing. Mr H also obtained a second, higher, 
quote from company B to carry out the work suggested by the surveyor. Our investigator 
was more persuaded by the surveyors report than the inspection carried out by British Gas 
and thought it should therefore pay for the damage to be repaired. She thought British Gas 
should pay £90 for the cost of the independent survey, £545 for the cost of the repairs, as 
quoted by company B, and £350 for the trouble and upset caused.
British Gas didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said there was a long gap 
between the leak and when Mr H received a quote from company B in March 2020. It said 
the damage will have got worse in that time and the cost to repair it will therefore have 
increased. It noted that company B originally quoted £245 for the repair and said it didnt 
think all the work in the second quote was covered under Mr Hs Home Care policy. It 
offered to pay £245, in addition to the £150 already sent. 
Mr H didnt accept British Gass revised offer and the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
British Gas accept the bath taps were fitted incorrectly and caused the water leak. The 
dispute is about the scale of the damage caused by that leak and what needs to be done to 
repair the damage. British Gas hasnt provided a detailed report of the inspection and the 
only photographs I have seen were taken by Mr H in December 2018 and by the 
independent surveyor in his report of January 2020. So, Ive relied on the emails British Gas 
sent to Mr H in January and February 2019, particularly the email where it reported on its 
inspection of the damage. In that email British Gas confirmed that the bath didnt have any 
leaks that could cause any further damage. It thought it could repair the damage by 
replacing a portion of the artex and repainting the ceiling. And it said the integrity of ceiling 
boards hadnt been reduced by the leak and were in a sound state. 
Mr H thought more needed to be done to repair the damage and he provided information 
about plasterboard and its integrity when its damaged by water. He also commissioned a 
report by a damp specialist. The surveyor inspected the damage in January 2020 and in his 
report he says there is clear evidence that theres been a water leak from the bath taps on 
the first floor as the timbers beneath the taps are water stained. He says the water has 
entered the void beneath the bathroom floor and followed the path of least resistance, 
finding its way down the ceiling to the staircase and exiting the ceiling at the base of the 
staircase. The surveyor said the affected plasterboard is displaying high moisture readings. 
He said its soft and brittle due to contact with moisture and needs to be replaced.
Having reviewed all of the evidence available to me, Im persuaded more by the findings of 
the independent surveyor than the inspection by British Gas. The damp report is more 
detailed than the report British Gas gave Mr H in February 2019 and it provides photographic 
evidence of the damage caused. British Gas didnt think the integrity of the plasterboards 
had been reduced by the leak while the independent surveyor thought they needed 
replacing. I dont know how British Gas reached their conclusions but its clear from the 
damp report that the surveyor took moisture readings and tested the plasterboards to see if 
they were soft and brittle. On balance, Im satisfied the plasterboards do need replacing. 
Mr Hs Home Care policy covers him for repairs to the plumbing system on his property, 
including the hot and cold water pipes. Im satisfied the initial work on Mr Hs taps was 
carried out under this policy. The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy also sets out what it 
doesnt cover and includes the following:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
In this instance, Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Hs property was caused by the poor 
repair of the taps in October 2018 and that British Gas is therefore responsible for repairing 
that damage.
Putting things right
Ive seen company Bs quote to repair the damage and I can see its more than they 
originally quoted. British Gas believes thats because the damage has got worse since the 
leak. Mr H says its because the original quote didnt cover the full extent of repairs identified 
by the independent surveyor. I recognise the survey was just over a year after Mr H noticed 
the leak. But Mr H says there were no further leaks from the taps after they were repaired in 
December 2018 and I have no reason to doubt that. And British Gas was satisfied in 
February 2019 that the leak had been fixed. I can also see that the photographs Mr H took in December 2018 are similar to the surveyors photographs taken in January 2020, so Im 
satisfied the damage hasnt got any worse over that time. Im also satisfied the second quote 
by the third party covers the extent of the repairs identified by the independent surveyor and 
I think British Gas should therefore pay for that work to be done.
Mr H paid £90 for the independent damp survey and, in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, I think its fair and reasonable to ask British Gas to reimburse Mr H for that cost.
Our investigator also thought British Gas should pay Mr H £350 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its poor service. The water leak was caused by poor workmanship by British Gas. 
Had it fitted the bath taps correctly, there wouldnt have been any damage to repair. The 
evidence also suggests that had it carried out a more thorough inspection of the damage, 
Mr H wouldnt have had cause to complain and wouldnt have needed to commission his 
own inspection report. 
Mr H has also raised a number of other issues about the service provided by British Gas, 
including comments made by one of its contractors when visiting the property and 
unnecessarily lengthy telephone calls. The evidence shows that Mr H suffered a significant 
amount of inconvenience and distress because of the poor service provided by British Gas. 
And, in light of that, I think £350, alongside the cost of the repairs and the damp report, 
would be a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint. 
British Gas said its already given Mr H £150. But he says he never received it, and British 
Gas has told us the cheque hasnt been cashed. So, Ive taken no account of that amount in 
my recommendations below and British Gas can cancel that cheque.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct British 
Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H the following:
£90 to reimburse him for the cost of the damp report
£545 to pay for a third party to repair the damage caused by the leak from the taps
£350 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman