DRN-1640318
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the total loss settlement AXA Insurance plc paid when it settled 
a theft claim under his car insurance policy.
All reference to AXA in my decision includes it agents.
What happened
Mr Ms car was stolen in November 2019 and he reported the theft to the police and his 
insurer, AXA. AXA settled Mr Ms claim by paying the market value for it.
Mr M didnt think the settlement of £19,500 (minus the excess) was enough. He said his car 
had a lot of extra specifications and he couldnt buy a similar car for the amount AXA paid. 
He provided examples of cars for sale which he said were similar to his. These were 
advertised for more than the sum AXA had paid. 
Our investigator explained our approach to valuation complaints. We dont decide a 
valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its valuation in a reasonable way 
and in line with the policy. He checked the main motor trade guides to find an average 
valuation. He thought that AXAs settlement sum was reasonable. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the valuation guides dont reflect the price hed need to pay to 
replace his car. He believes his policy should cover the true replacement cost.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. As the investigator explained, 
our role isnt to decide a valuation. But we look at what the policy says and whether the 
insurer decided a valuation in a reasonable way. 
Mr Ms policy with AXA says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of 
the car at the time of loss. AXA defines the term market value as:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a 
similar age, mileage and condition at the time of the accident or loss. The market 
value may also be affected by other factors such as a valid MOT, how you purchased 
your car and whether it has been previously declared a total loss.
AXA relied on one of the main motor trade guides to decide a total loss settlement for Mr Ms 
car. The last known mileage was taken into account at 54,000 miles. The valuation on Mr 
Ms car was on the basis of it being in good condition. 
Our investigator checked all of the main motor trade guides. We think its reasonable to look 
at all of the available guides. We find them more reliable than adverts as they are based on 
likely selling prices for the month of loss for the same make, model, mileage and condition 
as Mr Ms car. 
Ive considered the example Mr M provided for a similar car with 34,000 miles advertised for 
£23,795. We find advertised prices are less reliable as they can vary widely depending on 
what a customer or retailer thinks the car is worth. And generally there is a margin built into 
the asking price for negotiation. 
Where one of the valuations is out of kilter with the rest, we think its fair to disregard that 
valuation irrespective of whether its lower or higher. 
AXAs notes show that Mr M said he didnt have the paperwork from when he bought the 
car. So AXAs valuation was based on the known additions to the make and model of Mr Ms 
car.
So on the same basis, the main guides produced valuations of £17,000, £18,810, £19,422 
and £19,635. These are the retail transacted valuations. In other words, this is the average 
amount that Mr M  or anyone  might pay for a similar car from a retail garage. The 
valuation of £18,810 included a second hand value for some of the known additions to Mr 
Ms car. The other valuation guides didnt.
I think the lowest valuation of £17,000 is out of kilter with the others. So taking the average 
of the remaining three valuations, this comes to £19,289. 
I appreciate that Mr M doesnt think the way AXA has decided a valuation for his car is fair. 
But from what Ive seen, I think the total loss settlement of £19,500 AXA decided was 
reached reasonably. And it is higher than the average of the motor trade valuation guides. 
So I think AXA settled Mr Ms claim fairly and in line with the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman