Complaint
Mr A complains Virgin Money plc (Virgin) sent a balance transfer payment to an incorrect 
account and then took too long recalling the payment. 
Background
Mr A applied for a Virgin credit card and initiated a balance transfer to clear one of his other 
credit cards. Some time later Mr A noticed the balance transfer had not been received to that 
account. Mr A contacted Virgin and discovered the balance transfer had been sent to a 
credit card account he didnt recognise. He instructed Virgin to recall the payment but this 
wasnt actioned by them and it resulted in Mr A making further phone calls until it was finally 
recalled over a month later. 
Mr A feels Virgin should refund the interest charged on his other credit card, extend his 
promotional balance transfer offer for the purchases made on his other credit card and 
compensate him for the inconvenience. 
Virgin accept they made mistakes in initiating the recall of the balance transfer and offered 
Mr A £100 in compensation to reflect the inconvenience. They did not accept the balance 
transfer to the incorrect account was its fault as the balance transfer details was completed 
by Mr A online. 
Virgin says that Mr A had the opportunity to use the promotional offer for other balance 
transfers, but he chose not to. They felt their offer was fair and reasonable. Mr A was 
unhappy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator partly upheld Mr As complaint as he felt Virgin had taken too long to recall 
the balance transfer. The investigator didnt feel that Virgin could be held responsible for the 
incorrect balance transfer details as these had been input online by Mr A.  As a result the 
investigator felt that Virgin didnt need to refund the interest he was charged on purchases 
he subsequently made on his other credit card that he intended to repay with the balance 
transfer.
The investigator recommended that Virgin pay the interest on Mr As other card for the extra 
time it took to recall the original balance transfer plus eight percent interest on this sum until 
it is settled. This is to be in addition to £100 offered by Virgin for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr A felt that this wasnt sufficient and asked the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
DRN-1461054My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have come to the same view as the investigator.
When considering Mr As complaint I have looked at whether Virgin were responsible for the 
initial balance transfer error, the delay in recalling the balance transfer and whether the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable. 
It is important to understand why the error happened in the first place when considering the 
appropriate level of redress.
Mr A said when he completed his application for the Virgin credit card, he also initiated a 
balance transfer payment to one of his other credit cards. Mr A said he wouldnt have 
entered the wrong card details. I have been provided with screen shots of Mr As application 
and balance transfer requests and it does show the incorrect card details had been input and 
Im satisfied that this was actioned by Mr A.  Under the Virgins credit card agreement 
section 6.3 it says  If you provide the wrong details we will not be liable but we will try to 
recover the payment. 
While, like most banks, Virgin cant guarantee how long it might take to get the refund, I can 
see that Virgin took over a month before taking steps to recall the balance transfer. I can see 
that this was frustrating and inconvenient for Mr A when he had to make phone calls to get 
this corrected.  
While Virgin did make mistakes in the process here, they did eventually recover the money, 
although for the reasons I have previously said the incorrect balance transfer wasnt their 
fault. 
With that in mind, I dont think Mr A should be financially inconvenienced for the extra time it 
took Virgin to recall the balance transfer payment, as this service would expect Virgin, like all 
banks, to try and help their customers once an error has been identified, even if not of their 
making. I agree with the investigator that on top of the compensation offered by Virgin, it 
should pay for the interest charged on Mr As other credit card to reflect the time delay. 
I know Mr A feels that Virgin should refund the interest he has been charged on his other 
credit card purchases as he says he would have used his new Virgin card for these 
payments and benefited from the balance transfer offer. I have considered this but Mr A had 
the option to make further payments from his Virgin credit card while the recall of his balance 
transfer was being actioned and he chose not to. I cant see that was the fault of Virgin.  
Mr A also mentions his credit rating may have been affected as a result, but Mr A hasnt 
provided any evidence to suggest it has and even so, I am satisfied its cause was not of 
Virgins making, for the reasons I have explained. 
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision but I am satisfied the level of 
compensation and interest settlement suggested by the investigator is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
 
 Final Decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Virgin Money plc to refund the interest charged to Mr As other credit card for the 
period between 17th March 2019 and 24th April 2019, plus interest at 8% on this sum until it 
is settled. On top of this Virgin Money plc should make the compensation payment they 
offered, for Mr As inconvenience and upset of £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman