DRN-2069604
The complaint
Mr W says Santander UK plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005. Mr 
W applied for the PPI over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on that balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint because Santander recommended the policy to him 
but I dont think it was suitable. I say this because Mr W was entitled to sick pay from his 
employer worth 12 months of his salary. So, I think he could have managed without the PPI 
for long enough not to really need it.
Santander doesnt consider the evidence provided by Mr W supports what hes said about 
the sick pay he says he was entitled to. It considers there are discrepancies in the evidence.
Mr W has provided two documents with different dates. One, dated July 2001, includes Mr 
Ws employers name and the other doesnt. Mr W has explained that his original employer 
was taken over by another organisation, who employed him at the time the PPI was sold. He 
says his terms and conditions remained the same. 
Having considered the documents provided, on balance Im satisfied that the document 
dated July 2001 was Mr Ws employment contract, and set out the basis on which Mr W was 
entitled to company sick pay. 
The other document is an agreement between Mr Ws employer and the union that 
represented him. This set out details relating to pay and conditions, including the rate of sick 
pay. I consider this document supplemented Mr Ws employment contract, but Im not 
persuaded it replaced it.
Mr Ws employment contract shows that at the time he bought the PPI he was entitled to 52 
weeks sick pay. The PPI policy wouldve paid out for a maximum of 12 months.
The supplementary union document says sick pay will be at basic pay rate. Santander 
considers this means sick pay was equivalent to statutory sick pay. On that basis, it 
considers the PPI provided a better benefit than Mr Ws employer sick pay.
But Im not persuaded thats the case. Mr Ws employer sick pay was paid at whatever rate 
his basic pay was. And I can see from the other contract evidence Mr W has provided that 
there was a distinction between statutory sick pay and contractual sick pay. So I on balance I 
think its unlikely that Mr Ws basic pay rate was equivalent to the rate of statutory sick pay.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the PPI wouldve paid out for any longer than 
Mr Ws employer sick pay. So I agree with the adjudicator that Mr W couldve managed 
without the PPI for long enough not to really need it.
I dont think Mr W would have bought the policy if Santander had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable. So, I think Mr W has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr W in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mr W in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman