DRN-4283994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about what happened when they tried to move house, and found 
Lloyds Bank PLC had registered a number of charges over their property, as security for 
current and previous mortgage lending.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S told us theyd were selling their house, which had a small outstanding balance 
on a mortgage with Lloyds. They had lived there for many years, and had a mortgage with 
Lloyds for all that time. They had taken out additional borrowing on the house at points 
during this time, opening a total of nine sub-accounts within the original mortgage as they did 
so. But they said most of that lending had been paid off long ago.
Mr and Mrs S found out close to the sale that Lloyds had registered additional charges over
their home, in respect of this extra lending. And it hadnt removed these additional charges
when the lending was paid off. They said this was very unusual, and gave a misleading
impression that their house was still providing security for a considerable amount of lending.
Mr and Mrs S told us their solicitor said she couldnt give the usual undertaking that all
charges would be removed from their property, as part of the sale process, because of the
unusual nature of these charges.
Mr and Mrs S said they asked Lloyds to remove the extra charges, but it wouldnt do that
until all the lending had been repaid. Fortunately, they were able to pay off their mortgage in
full, but they said this shouldnt have been necessary. And they said Lloyds then took an
unreasonable amount of time to remove the charges, doing so in a piecemeal fashion.
During this time, it gave them conflicting information about when the charges would be
cleared. So their sale was delayed.
Mr and Mrs S said that if this, and taking 15 days, or working days, to remove a charge, was
all bank policy, then Lloyds should have provided reasonable adjustments under the Equality
Act, for them, because of issues and conditions of which Lloyds was aware.
Mr and Mrs S had accessed the Land Registry several times, to check the status of the
charges on their home, which they said was a cost they wanted Lloyds to cover. They said
theyd had to pay their solicitors extra, because of all the extra work involved, and they
wanted Lloyds to pay this too. They also wanted Lloyds to cover the costs of temporary
accommodation while they were waiting for exchange and completion to take place.
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs S had redeemed their mortgage on 12 May, and their charges were
fully removed on 27 May. It thought that this was a reasonable time for charges to be
removed. Lloyds said Mr and Mrs S had told it they always intended to move into a rental
property until they completed the purchase of their new property, but then asked it to pay
additional rental and moving costs. Lloyds didnt think it should have to pay those costs.
Lloyds said having charges from a previous lender should not impact a sale of a property
going through. It said that Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor could have given an undertaking to the
buyers solicitors to have the previous lenders charges removed.
Mr and Mrs S said Lloyds either knew, or should have known, that having expired and
entirely repaid charges on their Land Registry entry for their property was stopping them
from completing their sale. And they said Lloyds also knew they had vacated the house,
expecting that after two weeks the new owners would be able to take ownership. So Mr and
Mrs S said they were left homeless. They had several weeks of taking holiday lettings for as
long as available and having to move between properties. They said this was difficult for
them, given their personal circumstances. They maintained that none of this would have
happened if Lloyds had removed the additional charges promptly, when the extra lending
was paid off.
Lloyds sent us the terms of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage, and said it would not expect any
experienced solicitor to ask it to remove all security for its lending until all that lending was
repaid.
Mr and Mrs S said they were providing evidence of their costs. They said they also wanted
to add in the costs of council tax and utilities for the time that their house remained unsold.
They said theyd rounded this up to £250 for the three weeks of delay they said Lloyds had
caused. They said theyd like statutory interest to be added, if possible.
Our investigator didnt think that this complaint should be upheld. He thought Lloyds was
entitled, under the terms of the mortgage agreement with Mr and Mrs S, to keep all charges
in place until any and all debts were repaid in full. And he said Lloyds removed the charges
reasonably promptly once the mortgage was redeemed. He didnt think Lloyds had done
anything wrong by registering a number of separate charges, and he said it wasnt Lloyds
fault that Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor had refused to give a standard undertaking. He said he
had taken the Equality Act into account, but didnt think Lloyds needed to make reasonable
adjustments for Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said the main point of their complaint was that the old
changes shouldnt still have been there, such a long time after the related lending had been
paid off. They set out their reasons for believing that three out of the four charges should
have been removed some time ago. And they said it was very wrong for Lloyds to question
the professional judgment of their solicitor, who declined to give an undertaking in this case.
They also said that Lloyds didnt need fifteen working days to remove the charges, this could
have been done instantaneously, so if Lloyds did have a policy on this allowing it to take
fifteen days, it should have worked more quickly for them, given their circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S also said that their delay in submitting this extra information was because of
serious ill health.
Our investigator said he was sorry to hear about these recent health problems, and wished
Mr S a speedy recovery. But he didnt change his mind. He thought the mortgage conditions
said Lloyds can keep its security until all mortgages are repaid.
Mr and Mrs S replied again, to say that once the lending had been redeemed the security
should be removed. And they still thought that Lloyds should have expedited action in their
case, to respect provisions of the Equality Act.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. And I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I think it may be helpful if I start by setting out my overall conclusions on this case, then
explain how those have been reached. Ive reached two key conclusions 
Firstly, that it was not fair and reasonable in this case, or in line with the terms of Mr 
and Mrs Ss mortgage that Lloyds has sent us, for Lloyds to retain four separate 
charges over their property until all lending was redeemed.
Secondly, that the delay in removing the old charges does, in my view, make it 
reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs S some compensation, and some  
of the additional costs they have evidenced. But it would not be fair and reasonable 
for me to ask Lloyds to pay the accommodation costs they have shown us.
Ill explain why Ive reached each of those views.
When Mr and Mrs S wanted to sell their house, there were four separate charges (one 
of which was amended) held over the property, all in favour of Lloyds. They have 
described this as very unusual, and said that the underlying lending which appeared to 
have generated many of these charges, had been paid off many years previously. They 
said this unusual situation concerned their solicitor, and she was not willing to give the 
usual undertaking, that existing charges would be removed by the lender after the sale.
Lloyds has queried this decision by Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor. In correspondence with our
service, Lloyds suggested that no experienced solicitors would ever ask it to agree to
remove its charges until the total balance owed was repaid.
But thats not quite what Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor asked. What the firm queried, was the
number of charges Lloyds held. The firm noted Mr and Mrs S said some of these were 
in respect of lending paid back many years ago, and asked Lloyds, if this was the case, 
to remove just those charges, and to do so as a matter of urgency. Mr and Mrs Ss 
solicitors never suggested that Lloyds should remove all its security over the property.
Looking at its contact notes, Lloyds appears to have taken the view that none of its 
charges should be removed, until absolutely all its lending was redeemed. It has 
referred to the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage, which it sent us. But 
that doesnt seem to me to be what these terms say. Rather, what they say is that one 
charge would cover all secured lending by Lloyds to the homeowners, either jointly or 
separately.
Our security over your property is security for more than just the amount you owe us 
under this agreement (which we refer to in this booklet as our agreement).
It also covers any other money you owe us under another mortgage agreement you 
have (or have had) with us or that you have with us in future while we still have the 
security over your property.
Lloyds referred, in its response to this complaint, to the following provision of these 
terms -
We can keep our security until everything you owe under our agreement (and any 
other mortgage agreements and mortgage loans mentioned above) has been paid in 
full.Lloyds appears to have understood this as saying its entitled to keep any and all 
charges, (even if the lending made in respect of those charges has been redeemed) 
until all secured lending has been redeemed.
The provisions in these terms do not suggest to me that Lloyds would usually seek to
register multiple securities, and keep each of those in place until not only that lending, 
but any other secured lending, has also been repaid. This reads to me as if the reverse 
is what the terms suggest, that Lloyds would not register multiple securities, because 
any security it already holds will run to all of its lending.
I think Lloyds recognised this, at least in part, when it said to our service although 
there were 9 separate sub accounts, this doesnt mean there were necessarily 9 
separate charges. Lloyds Bank held first charge over the property, so any further 
borrowing, wouldnt require separate charges to be added. I agree with that. I dont 
think the multiple charges on Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage were likely to have been 
required at all.
So I cannot say that Lloyds has followed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss
mortgage by registering and retaining multiple securities over their property. Nor can I 
say that what it has done, in registering multiple securities and then refusing to remove 
any of these until all the lending had been redeemed, or alternatively to confirm in 
writing that at least some are in respect of lending which has been redeemed, was fair 
and reasonable.
For those reasons, I think that Lloyds has caused a delay to Mr and Mrs Ss sale, and
caused them to incur some additional costs. I think it should pay some of the expenses
theyve asked for, and some compensation. But I dont think Lloyds has to pay 
everything Mr and Mrs S asked for. Ill now move on to explaining how Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Mr and Mrs Ss request for payment falls under five broad heads  additional solicitors 
costs, additional costs of checking the Land Registry, accommodation costs, costs of 
maintaining their property whilst they were in alternative accommodation, and 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience they experienced.
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors have confirmed that the only reason for the additional 
payment, over and above the agreed cost of conveyancing, was the additional work on 
removing the numerous charges in favour of Lloyds. I think its reasonable to ask Lloyds 
to pay that. So Ill include a payment in my award to cover this, of £320 plus vat, £384 in 
total, with statutory interest at 8% simple from the date Mr and Mrs S can show they 
paid these fees, until the date the fees are refunded.
Mr and Mrs S have also shown us a total of fifteen payments to the Land Registry, while 
they were seeking to have the charges removed. I think it was reasonable for Mr and 
Mrs S to continually check the registry, given that theyve told us they received 
conflicting information about what Lloyds would remove and when. And I also think its 
likely that Mr and Mrs Ss additional solicitors charges were lower, because of the 
amount of work they did on this themselves. So Ill include a payment to cover this, of 
£45, in my award below, with statutory interest at 8% simple from the date Mr and Mrs S 
paid these charges, until the date the charges are refunded.
The bulk of Mr and Mrs Ss financial claim is made up of accommodation costs, which 
they say cost £3,484.62. Mr and Mrs S say theyd agreed to complete on 19 May, so 
they thought their accommodation costs should be paid from 19 May to 11 June.The timeline Mr and Mrs S have sent us, said they had indicated to their solicitors on 6 
May that exchange on 10 May and completion on 19 May would be acceptable, and 
theyd made removal arrangements accordingly. Mr and Mrs S also told us they had 
always intended to move into temporary accommodation during the removal period, 
rather than live around boxes. I understand their decision to do this, particularly in light 
of the health challenges they have told us they both face. But I dont think that decision 
is Lloyds responsibility.
I havent been able to see that Mr and Mrs S were in fact committed to their exchange 
and completion dates on 6 May. And they knew on 10 May that they would face some 
difficulties and potential delay with their sale. Their solicitor told them then she wasnt 
prepared to give the usual undertaking about the repayment of charges over their 
property, because of the unusual number of these held over their property.
Mr and Mrs S first asked Lloyds to remove the old charges on 12 May. Their solicitors 
had already written to Lloyds about this, with the same request, on 10 May. Mr and Mrs 
S found they had to pay off the mortgage in full before Lloyds would remove the 
charges. And the charges were finally removed on 27 May.
Mr and Mrs S have told us their sale didnt actually complete until 9 June, and their 
related purchase went ahead on the same day. I understand they had been anticipating 
a gap between their sale and purchase, and it looks as if Lloyds delay may have 
eliminated this. 
It might have been reasonable in this case to ask Lloyds to pay for costs necessarily 
arising out of a delayed exchange and completion, perhaps cancellation and rebooking 
charges for a removal firm. But I havent been able to see that its Lloyds fault that Mr 
and Mrs S still chose to move into hotel accommodation on 17 May (before their 
planned completion) and remained away from home until 11 June. So I dont think that it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to pay those costs for Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S also wanted Lloyds to pay the additional costs of maintaining their home, 
after they moved into temporary accommodation. They wanted it to cover council tax, 
and utilities. Ive explained above that I dont think its Lloyds fault that Mr and Mrs S 
chose to move out of home before theyd exchanged on their property. And I also note 
that Mr and Mrs Ss family member continued to live in the property during this time. I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay the costs of maintaining the 
household during this period.
I do think, however, that Mr and Mrs S have been put to some inconvenience, and I 
think its likely that the sale of their property was delayed. For those reasons, I will ask 
Lloyds to pay £500 in compensation now. I think that would form part of a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
For completeness, I should respond to Mr and Mrs Ss point that the Equality Act 
required Lloyds to expedite the removal of the charges in their case. I dont think that 
issue necessarily arises here, because what I think its likely that Lloyds should not have
registered more than one charge in the first place. If that had been done, then I 
anticipate that Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor would have been likely to be willing to give the 
usual undertaking, in respect of one charge that could clearly be related to their existing
outstanding borrowing.
I should also say that its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or 
not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Lloyds has 
breached the Equality Act 2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into 
account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the complaint.
However, in the situation in which Mr and Mrs S found themselves, I havent been able 
to see that the provisions of the Equality Act required Lloyds to expedite the removal of 
the charges on their property, as a reasonable adjustment in respect of their personal
circumstances (which I havent set out here). Thats because I think the need for 
urgency arose not primarily because Mr and Mrs S needed to spend some time away 
from their home whilst the move was being completed, but primarily because they chose 
to move out of their home well in advance of the move, in line with their previous 
removal plans, at a point when it must have seemed very likely that these plans would 
be somewhat delayed. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds replied to say it accepted my decision. It said the charges that were applied were 
done in line with its policy in the 1990s. But it hadnt been able to show why, when separate 
sub accounts were redeemed, it doesnt then remove the charge for that sub account.
Lloyds said that ordinarily, most solicitors accept that on full redemption, all applicable 
charges would be removed. But here, it appreciated Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor wasnt satisfied 
with this agreement and therefore why they waited to complete the sale. So it would accept 
my proposed resolution, and it asked for details to allow it to make the required payments. 
Mr And Mrs S also replied to accept. They said they were pleased to note Id said that the 
multiple charges were unnecessary, and theyd been correct to complain about this. They 
said they wanted to bring an end to this matter, so they accepted my proposed award, and 
said they hoped this would result in improved procedures (and staff training) so that no other 
long-term customer was placed in a situation similar to theirs in future. 
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs S the following 
A refund of £384 in respect of additional solicitors fees, with interest at 8% simple from 
the date Mr and Mrs S can show they paid these fees, until the date the fees are 
refunded.
A refund of £45 in respect of Land Registry fees, with interest at 8% simple from the date 
Mr and Mrs S paid these charges, until the date the charges are refunded. 
£500 in compensation.(HM Revenue and Customs requires Lloyds Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds 
Bank Plc must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask 
for one.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman