DRN-3476082
The complaint
Mr B complained that money went missing from his account with Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax.
What happened
On 7 September 2020, Mr B said he noticed that £37 was missing from his account. He rang 
Halifax, and was told that this was because there were pending transactions: £12 pending 
from 3 September and £25 pending from 4 September. 
Mr B had sent the money to his betting account, and he said that his betting account had 
been credited on 3 and 4 September  so he thought the money had already been taken out 
of his Halifax account, and shouldnt be taken again.
On 18 September, Mr B paid £20 into his Halifax account, and then transferred it to his 
betting account. On 19 September, he had a text from Halifax saying Payments due may 
take you into unarranged overdraft. Please pay cleared funds in to cover these and future 
payments. His balance showed as £20 overdrawn. Mr B said he paid in £20 when he got 
the message, but he was unhappy because he felt his initial £20 deposit had disappeared. 
He complained.
Halifax didnt agree that any money had gone missing. In its final response letter, it 
explained that when a payment is made it becomes a pending payment while its being 
processed by the receiving organisation. Mr Bs Halifax account balance would take account 
of all pending payments which had been notified to Halifax. But the payment didnt show until 
the Saturday, because that was when the company processed it. Halifax confirmed that both 
the £37 and the £20 which Mr B had queried had been accounted for.
Mr B didnt agree, and he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked carefully at Mr Bs statements. She said that there was nothing to 
show that the money Mr B had paid in had left his account twice. She explained that:
In relation to the £37:
- The £12 and £25 which Mr B had paid to his betting account on 3 and 4 September 
had left Halifax on 8 and 9 September. There werent any other recent debits for £12 
or £25.
And in relation to the £20:
- The statements showed that Mr B had paid £20 into Halifax on 17 September, 
followed by £10. This brought his balance to £139.97.  Six transactions totalling 
£83.77 left his account the same day, bringing his balance to £56.20.
- On 18 September, £20 was paid to Mr Bs betting account, and three £10 payments 
to another betting firm. This brought his balance to £6.20.
- Mr B had then paid more money in, increasing his balance. But there was no 
evidence that the account had actually gone into overdraft.  A payment left his 
account on 21 September, which had been pending since 19 September.  So the 
investigator thought that that payment was the reason why Mr B had had the text 
message.
So the investigator thought that Mr Bs balance was correct, and there was nothing to 
suggest there was, or had been, a problem with the account.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the investigator hadnt explained the things hed complained 
about. He asked why £37 had been taken out of his account, when the money had already 
been taken.  He sent a photo from his phone, showing a balance of £20 in debit, and said it 
had taken him into unarranged overdraft, when he could only spend the money that was in 
his account. He said hed deposited £20 which disappeared the next day, with the 
unarranged overdraft message. Mr B asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at what Mr B has provided, and his Halifax statements. I dont think Mr B 
has lost any money here, and I dont think he was ever in an actual unarranged overdraft. I 
do understand that the message about the unarranged overdraft may have been confusing, 
so Ill explain why I think the balance on Mr Bs account was correct.
I think the problem here is the way that pending transactions work, which I agree can be very 
confusing. When payments are authorised by the customer, they dont always come out of 
the customers account straightaway. Looking first at the £12 and £25 payments, what 
happened here was that when Mr B authorised the £12 and £25 payments to his betting 
account, the betting firm gave him the credit for them straightaway. So Mr B could use the 
money with the betting firm. But the betting firm didnt ask Halifax for the money 
straightaway. Putting it simply, it earmarked the money. So Halifax knew that the betting 
firm would be asking for the money, and knowing this, it reduced his available balance. But 
the betting firm didnt process the full payment requests until 8 and 9 September. So thats 
when the money finally left Mr Bs Halifax account. To answer Mr Bs question, the £12 and 
£25 hadnt been taken before  they were only debited, once, on the later dates.
The situation was similar with the disputed £20. Mr B paid in £20 on 18 September, and 
moved it to his betting account soon afterwards, as Ive set out above. The reason Halifax 
sent him a message the next day, saying payments might take him into unarranged 
overdraft, was that there was a £20 payment on 21 September which looks as if it had been 
pending since 19 September. So although Halifax sent Mr B the warning message, his 
account didnt actually ever go into an actual overdraft  because Mr B paid money in before 
the pending transactions reached the account.
Its the bank statements which showed what the balances actually were on Mr Bs account.  
These dont show that the £12, £25 or £20 were debited more than once. Nor did Mr B go 
into unarranged overdraft. The message which concerned Mr B was a warning about what 
might happen if all the earmarked pending transactions hit the account before any more money was paid in. That didnt happen, so the account didnt go into an actual unarranged 
overdraft. 
I do recognise that this isnt straightforward, and I sympathise with Mr B, wholl want to be 
sure he hasnt lost money here. But Ive looked carefully at Mr Bs statements, and I dont 
see anything to show that the disputed amounts were debited more than once, or that he 
went into overdraft at that time. The money he paid in went towards the payments which 
were pending, and didnt disappear. So I dont find that Halifax did anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman