DRN-3687492
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the way in which Evolution Insurance Company Limited 
(Evolution) dealt with her request to cancel her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B renewed her insurance policy with Evolution in March 2022 through her heating 
company. The cost of her insurance policy was just over £215 per annum and her boiler 
service just over £80 per annum making a total price of just under £300. Her monthly 
payments amounted to just under £25 per month in total.
The heating company contacted Ms B in March 2022 to arrange her annual boiler service. 
The service took place shortly afterwards, however Ms B noticed that a water pressure pipe 
started to leak after the service. The service engineer returned to try to resolve the leak, 
however it continued. Ms B lost hot water and central heating for over 24 hours. She 
arranged for the boiler manufacturers engineer to attend and the problem was resolved.
Ms B called Evolution the following day to cancel her insurance following the service issues. 
This was outside the 14 day cooling-off period referenced in the policy. Evolution told Ms B 
that she would have to pay the full years premiums up to and including February 2023, as a 
service had been carried out. Ms B was unhappy that she was required to pay this sum. She 
was also unhappy with the way in which Evolution had handled her complaint. Ms B 
complained to Evolution however it maintained its position, whilst apologising for certain 
service issues. Ms B then complained to our service. Ms B also said that she had 30 days to 
cancel her policy and that she wasnt aware that the contract was for a full year.
Our investigator upheld Ms Bs complaint. Instead of charging all the insurance premiums to 
Ms B, it was his view that Evolution should only charge for the proportion of time that the 
boiler was on cover, plus a reasonable administration charge of £60 for the administrative 
task of cancellation. He also referred to specific financial regulations to support his view. The 
investigator concluded that as Ms B hadnt made a claim on her insurance policy, it would 
only be fair to ask her to pay for cover up to the date of requested cancellation.
Evolution didnt agree with our investigators view and the matter was therefore referred to 
me to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman. In July 2022, I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint as 
follows; -
The key question for me to consider is whether Evolution applied the terms and conditions 
of its policy regarding cancellation in a fair and reasonable manner, and whether it provided 
a fair and reasonable insurance service to Ms B more generally. I dont consider that 
Evolution has acted fairly and reasonably in all respects and Ill explain why.
My starting point will therefore be the terms and conditions of the policy. The relevant
extracts state as follows: -
If you cancel after 14 days
Where your agreement is cancelled outside the 14-day cooling off period and youve not
made a claim or received a boiler service, therell be no cancellation fee payable to us and
your agreement will be cancelled the day before your next instalment payment would have
been due.
Where your agreement is cancelled outside the 14-day cooling off period and youve made
an accepted claim or have had an engineers visit (for example, a boiler service) you must
pay any remaining premiums due for the term of your agreement.
The policy document then repeats the cancellation rights as follows: -
You have the right to cancel new policies within 14 days of receipt and renewal instructions
within 14 days of your renewal. Full details are provided in your policy terms and conditions.
Any policies cancelled outside of this 14-day period may be subject to a cancellation fee.
As well as the documentary evidence and telephone evidence, Ive carefully considered the
submissions of Evolution and Ms B about the matter. Ms B said that when Evolution phoned
to arrange her boiler service, shed told its representative that the boiler was in perfect
working order at the time. Ms B said that shed received a faulty service on her boiler which
then caused a leak from the water pressure vent pipe.
Ms B phoned the service engineer the same day, however he said that hed tested it during
the service and that the leak should soon stop. Later that day she lost all pressure from her
boiler and lost all hot water and central heating. She took advice from a plumber who said
that the agent had not needed to test the water pressure pipe and had probably split the
valve and she might also need a new expansion vessel. The service engineer returned and
re-pressurised the boiler and said that Ms Bs boiler didnt need any new parts. The pipe
continued to leak, however he said it would stop. The water pressure dropped again, and Ms
B was again left without heating and hot water. Ms B called the manufacturer and their 
engineer attended promptly, resolved the problem and produced a report.
After phoning Evolution to cancel her policy the following day, Miss B said that she was
shocked to be told that she would be charged until February 2023. She said that this hadnt
been made clear to her when her policy was renewed over the phone. Evolutions
representative however offered just under £25 credit on her payments as a goodwill gesture.
Ms B then complained to Evolution. She said that the boiler was in good working order
before the service and was faulty afterwards, but that Evolution had refused to cancel the
policy without charging premiums for a full year. She also complained about the way her
complaint had been handled. She said she was initially refused the opportunity to speak to a
manager. She was then informed a manager would phone her within 24 hours. A manager
did leave a message but when Ms B phoned back, the person on the mobile number given
didnt know about the matter and promised that someone would phone back. This didnt
occur and Ms B was left feeling that Evolution didnt want to speak to her. She said that she
no longer trusted the heating companys engineers to service her boiler or carry out repairs.
Evolution have said that following the boiler service in March 2022, the service engineer had
reported the problem and that the engineer had therefore re-attended the property. It said
that the engineer repressurised the boiler and that this had resolved the issue. Evolution said
that Ms B hadnt contacted it advise of any continuing issue. Had it been notified, it said it
wouldve sent the engineer again to further investigate and would have rectified any 
problem. It accepted that Ms B had contacted it the following day to explain the further
issues which she resolved independently and that she therefore wanted to cancel her
policy. It had explained that she was required to pay the cancellation fee however and thatthis would equate to the remaining payments for the contract term.
The case notes show that the manufacturers engineer had diagnosed a problem with a
valve in the water release pipe which it considered the service engineer had dislodged and
that this had caused further problems. The service engineer had thought it was a gas
diaphragm which just needs repressurizing. The notes also record that Ms B had tried to
call the engineer after the second visit and that there had been no answer Evolution 
nevertheless considered that Ms B had received the benefit of a boiler service and a 
subsequent visit by the engineer and had therefore enjoyed the benefit of the policy. It
thought it was therefore clear that Ms B was required to pay the cancellation fee stipulated in
the terms and conditions. It said that as a gesture of goodwill, and as an apology for the
inconvenience suffered, it offered the customer a reimbursement of one months' premiums.
As to knowledge of the policy terms and conditions, Evolution said that; The terms and
conditions were provided to the customer at the outset/inception of the policy and the
customer was provided with a 14-day cooling off period to enable her to review her terms
and conditions. It also said that the Ms B was aware that the policy was for a 12-month
period as it was clear on the policy invite/renewal documentation. As Ms B had failed to
return to Evolution within the 14 day cool-off period, it said shed clearly agreed to the terms
and conditions: - Not only did the customer fail to return to us within 14 days, the customer
enjoyed the benefit of a boiler service approximately 18 days after purchasing her...Policy.
In its final response letter, Evolution stated that it understood and apologised for the
inconvenience caused to Ms B, however it didnt uphold the insurance complaint. It repeated
that if an engineer attends the property, you are tied for the reminder of the contract. You
cannot cancel before the next billing date. It referred to the relevant policy wording and
confirmed that where the agreement was cancelled outside the 14-day cooling off period and
the policy holder had not made a claim or received a boiler service, there would be no
cancellation fee payable. In such a case, the agreement would be cancelled the day before
the next instalment payment would have been due. Where the agreement was cancelled
outside the 14-day cooling off period and there had been an accepted claim or an engineer's
visit it repeated that Ms B must pay any remaining premiums due for a full year.
Evolution disagreed with our investigators reading of the relevant financial regulation and
said it clearly referred to cancellation during the 14-day cooling-off period and was not
therefore relevant. It made the point that the regulation provides that customers are required
to make payment of the cancellation fee as long as theyve been duly informed of it.
Finally, Evolution confirmed that the boiler service formed part of the product provided and
that the monthly premium of just under £25 covered both the service and insurance element.
It said: - It is clear that the boiler service is still a part of the product provided as it is referred
to throughout the policy terms and conditions.
For the avoidance of doubt, in my provisional decision, I do not reach any findings regarding
the heating companys actions with regard to the boiler service. What Im considering is
Evolutions handling of Ms Bs request to cancel her insurance policy. Having said this, the
boiler service is integrally linked to the request to cancel and Im satisfied that Ms B wouldnt
have requested cancellation her policy but for her experience in relation to her boiler service.
Evolution likewise accept that the two matters are integrally linked throughout the policy 
terms and conditions. Evolutions refusal to cancel Ms Bs policy without penalty is due to the
fact that Ms B received a boiler service and not because shed made any claim on her policy.
As to the financial regulations which have been raised during the course of this complaint, as
stated above, my starting point is the policy itself. In this case the key question is whether
the policy terms have been applied fairly and reasonably bearing in mind the specific facts
and circumstances in this case. I therefore dont consider it necessary to consider theregulations and dont consider they add to the debate in this instance.
I agree with Evolution that the terms and conditions of the policy are clear with regard to
cancellation. I also accept that on the balance of probabilities, Ms B will have had the
opportunity to have sight of current terms and conditions on renewal. Im satisfied on a
provisional basis that it was clear from the wording of the renewal documents that the policy
was provided on a yearly basis. It was also clear that there was an opportunity to cancel the
policy during a 14-day cooling-off period.
Having said this, and on a provisional basis, I dont consider that it was fair or reasonable for
Evolution to enforce this part of its policy in the way that it has. The cancellation rights as
reproduced above make it clear that Evolution will exercise its discretion in applying any
cancellation fee: - Any policies cancelled outside of this 14-day period may be subject to a
cancellation fee. Any such discretion should be applied fairly and reasonably.
Im satisfied on a provisional basis and on the available evidence that the leak had been
caused by the service engineer and that following his second visit and the re-pressuring
work, the problem persisted. I dont agree with Evolution that the issue had been resolved
prior to the manufacturers input. Evolution ultimately appears to have accepted that the leak
was caused by its engineer and apologised for the inconvenience. Im satisfied that it was
therefore reasonable for Ms B to seek assistance from the manufacturer rather than through
Evolution, particularly if Ms B had tried to contact the service engineer again following the
second visit. I can understand why Ms B might lose faith that the service engineer wouldnt
cause more damage. Although Evolution have said that if it had been aware of the issue it
would have rectified it, I consider that Ms B gave the opportunity to rectify it and this failed.
Evolution considered that Ms B had received the benefit of a boiler service and also the
benefit of a subsequent visit by the engineer and had therefore enjoyed the benefit of the
policy. As referenced above, its not possible to separate the wish to cancel the policy and
what happened as a result of the service. The policy and the cancellation terms and
conditions tie the issues together. Evolution has accepted that they are inextricably linked,
and that one premium is payable for both the insurance and service element of the product
which has been sold to Ms B.
Im satisfied that Ms B received an annual service and that this may have provided some
benefit. Any benefit must however be seen in the light of the fact that it caused a problem
which hadnt existed previously. The way in which the matter was handled led to an apology.
It caused inconvenience for Ms B and her family and caused Ms B to lose faith in the 
service. In the circumstances, I dont consider that it would be fair and reasonable for
Evolution to rely on the specific wording of the policy in this instance to impose a
cancellation fee upon Ms B. Neither do I consider that it would be fair to apply a notional
administration fee for cancellation as mentioned by or investigator. Such a fee is not
included in the terms and conditions of the policy.
The specific policy wording meant that a cancellation fee would only be applied had Ms B
made a claim (she had made no such claim), or if the annual service had been carried out. I
provisionally conclude that it wouldnt be fair reasonable for Evolution to rely on the technical
wording of the policy in this instance of a flawed service. It would for instance be unfair and
unreasonable to require a policy holder to pay the whole years premiums following an
engineers visit where the engineer had forgotten his equipment. It couldnt be classed as an
effective visit. In a similar manner it would be unfair and unreasonable to charge a 
cancellation fee where, as in this case, the boiler service had caused a significant problem
which was not previously present. This is even the case if the majority of the work was
carried out successfully in other respects. The problem caused couldnt be described as a
de minimis or trivial issue.I do however accept that it would be reasonable for Evolution to adhere to the provision in its
policy terms which allows it effectively to charge for the first month of cover and to cancel the
policy prior to the second payment. It states: - your agreement will be cancelled the day
before your next instalment payment would have been due. This is because this provision
would have applied in all other cases of cancellation where a boiler service hadnt been 
received.
As to the way that Ms Bs service issues regarding cancellation were handled, on the 
balance of probabilities, I accept Ms Bs version of events and that a manager had not
returned her call as promised. Im also satisfied on a preliminary basis that it was unfair and
unreasonable for Evolution to have pursued a full years premiums in the specific
circumstances and that this will have caused stress and inconvenience to Ms B. I therefore
consider that it would be appropriate for Evolution to pay a modest sum of £150 in
compensation to acknowledge the stress and inconvenience caused to Ms B and her family.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Ms B and Evolution if they had any further 
comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Ms B nor Evolution provided further submissions in response to the provisional 
decision, apart from a request by Evolution for further information regarding the calculation 
of compensation award for stress and inconvenience.
In the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint and require Evolution Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following: -
- to cancel Ms Bs policy in accordance with her request.
- to refund all premium payments made from the end of March 2022 onwards.
- to pay 8% a year simple interest on such amounts from the date of payments to the date of 
settlement.
- to pay compensation of £150 to Ms B for stress and inconvenience within 28 days of 
acceptance of any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman