DRN-3945993
The complaint
Mr S complains about his insurer, Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) cancelling his 
motor insurance policy when he didnt respond in time to a letter from them asking for some 
documentation. 
Any reference to Haven in this decision includes their agents. 
This decision only covers Mr Ss complaint about the cancellation of his policy in July 2022. 
It doesnt cover a second, subsequent cancellation
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with Haven, commencing in January 2022. In June 
2022 he received an email from Haven asking him to respond to a letter that would be 
arriving by post within the next seven days. Mr S phoned Haven three days after the email 
and then five days after the email to say he hadnt received the letter. He was told to wait a 
further two days, but the letter didnt arrive. He contacted Haven again and was told theyd 
send out another letter and he should wait for it to arrive.
However, Mr S then received an email from Haven saying his policy had been cancelled 
because he hadnt replied to their letter. He phoned Haven to challenge the cancellation, 
saying he hadnt received the letter they said theyd be sending. He says he was told to wait 
for the letter, respond to it and they would validate the response and reinstate his policy. Mr 
S received the letter the following day, asking him to provide some documents to validate his 
policy. He responded to the letter and phoned Haven a few days later and was told his policy 
would be reinstated (or a new policy issued for the remaining term of the original policy). 
But when Mr S phoned Haven again, he was told the policy had been cancelled due his 
being non communicative to the letter. Haven didnt refund the premium for the unused 
period of cover as there was a claim outstanding on the policy (which meant Haven were 
entitled to keep any unused premiums pending the outcome of the claim).
Given what he was told, Mr S then took out a new policy with a different insurer.
Mr S was unhappy at what had happened, so he complained to this service. He said it 
wasnt his fault the letter from Haven didnt arrive until eight days after he was told to expect 
it  so it wasnt possible for him to have replied within seven days. The cancellation had 
affected him financially as he couldnt afford to take out another full-year policy six months 
after taking out his original policy, so he had to use public transport at greater cost and 
stress. He wanted a refund of the premium hes paid for the unused period of his policy and 
waiving of cancellation fees.
 
As Mr S complained to this service first, our investigator asked Haven to consider the 
complaint. In their final response, they apologised for incorrectly cancelling the policy and 
said theyd agreed to reinstate Mr Ss policy and he should contact his broker if he wanted 
the reinstatement to go ahead. If he didnt want to reinstate his policy, Haven said he 
wouldnt have to declare the cancellation to any future insurers. 
Mr S cancelled his new policy after just under a month on cover, and his policy with Haven 
was reinstated. But Mr S wanted reimbursement for the cost of taking out cover elsewhere 
(hed initially paid £221.61 for his new policy and received a refund of £67.10 when he 
cancelled it).
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint, concluding Havens actions had acted 
unreasonably in cancelling his policy, causing him financial loss and inconvenience. The 
investigator thought that as Mr S had already paid for a years policy with Haven, they should 
refund the net additional cost of Mr S taking out his new policy (£154.51 plus interest on the 
amount) and pay £100 in compensation for inconvenience. 
Haven disagreed with the investigators view and provided further information about the 
cancellation of the policy, based on subsequent validation of the documentation provided by 
Mr S. They said theyd cancelled the policy correctly as Mr S hadnt responded to their letter 
within the timeline theyd asked (initially, two days after the email to allow time for a second 
letter to be sent) and within the overall seven days theyd requested. So, theyd correctly 
cancelled the policy. They also said they had made an error in their final response when they 
said theyd incorrectly cancelled Mr Ss policy  they now believed they had correctly 
cancelled the policy.
Following consideration of Havens response to their initial view, our investigator issued a 
second view in which they concluded Mr Ss policy may have been cancelled at the point it 
was reinstated in August 2022, had they been aware of the subsequent validation of some of 
the documentation provided by Mr S. So, the investigator didnt think Haven should 
compensate Mr S for the cost of his new policy between the initial cancellation of the policy 
and its reinstatement. But the investigator still thought Haven should pay £100 compensation 
Haven disagreed with the investigators revised view and confirmed their request an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They said theyd correctly cancelled Mr Ss policy in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions as he hadnt provided the documentation 
requested within the seven-day timeline. As they hadnt made a mistake in cancelling the 
policy, then they didnt agree Mr S should receive compensation. Theyd agreed to reinstate 
Mr Ss policy (in their final response) as a gesture of goodwill and in doing so theyd relied on 
the broker validating the documents (incorrectly). It was only later they concluded the 
documents had been incorrectly validated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Haven has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is Havens cancellation of his policy in July 2022, when Mr 
S didnt respond within the seven-day period Haven set out in an email telling Mr S to reply 
to a letter they would be sending to him through the post. Mr S says he contacted Haven 
(and through his broker) when the letter didnt arrive. And when a second letter arrived, he 
responded promptly to supply the requested information. Haven say Mr S should have 
contacted them earlier (after two days) to say he hadnt received the letter, allowing time for 
a second letter to be sent. And because he didnt provide the requested information within 
the seven-day period, his policy was automatically cancelled in accordance with the noticed 
period given in the initial email (and the policy terms and conditions).Looking at what happened, together with the information and evidence provided by Mr S and 
by Haven (including call recordings of contacts Mr S had with Haven (and the broker with 
whom he dealt) it seems Mr S did seek to contact Haven about the request they made (by 
email) for him to respond to a letter they would be sending by post to his address, in which 
they asked for certain documentation to validate his policy. Im aware of the reason for 
Haven making the request, which is also set out in the email sent to Mr S.
Looking at the email, it asks Mr S to contact them after two days if he hasnt received the 
letter (so allowing time for a second letter to be sent). While Mr S has provided a schedule of 
calls made to Haven (including the broker) that indicates a call was made after two days, 
Haven havent been able to locate a record (or recording) of such a call. So, its not possible 
to be definitive about what may have happened, or the content of any such call. But there 
are subsequent calls in which, at least one occasion, where Mr S says he hasnt received 
the letter and requests a new letter. 
A second letter is sent, which Mr S receives and responds promptly with documentation 
requested by Haven. However, this wasnt until after the expiry of the original seven-day 
period for responses, which meant the policy was automatically cancelled. At that point Mr S 
contacted Haven and told his policy would be reinstated, but that didnt happen and he took 
out cover with another insurer. Having then complained to this service (but not having first 
done so to Haven) Haven considered what had happened and issued a final response in 
which they said they had incorrectly cancelled Mr Ss policy and offering him the opportunity 
to reinstate his policy (which he subsequently did, cancelling the new policy hed taken out).
Looking at what happened, Mr S didnt provide the requested documentation within the 
seven-day period requested, and as Ive said it isnt possible to confirm his contact with 
Haven within two days of the email being sent (though theres some indication from the 
record of calls provided by Mr S that he did) then Haven applied the automatic cancellation 
of the policy. But there is evidence Mr S did contact Haven (and through the broker) within 
the seven-day period to say he hadnt received the letter and requesting a new one be sent. 
Haven say they wouldnt consider a policyholder saying they hadnt received a letter to be 
exceptional circumstances, so wouldnt grant any extension of the deadline. While this is 
their policy (and I understand the rationale for it as theyve told this service), Im not 
persuaded its fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of this case. Particularly as it 
seems Mr S provided promptly what he considered to be the required documentation when 
he received the second letter (and which was subsequently validated  albeit wrongly in the 
first instance). Having then been told his policy would be reinstated (but then it couldnt be) 
led Mr S to take out a new policy.
Haven have said they made an error in their final response, saying theyd incorrectly 
cancelled the policy, as subsequent, further validation of the documents Mr S provided 
indicated some werent compliant with what had been requested (the initial validation by the 
broker hadnt identified this non-compliance). Haven also say they offered reinstatement of 
the policy as a goodwill gesture. Ive thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded by 
Havens view. Having provided what he thought was the requested documentation, and 
being offered reinstatement of his policy, it wasnt unreasonable for Mr S to decide to take 
this up, cancelling his new policy. While he incurred cost of the cover for the period between 
taking it out and cancelling it, he received a part-refund of the premium and would have 
benefited from being covered during the period. So, I dont think Haven should reimburse 
him for the cost of that periods cover.
But I do think Mr S suffered some inconvenience from what happened, having to take out a 
new policy when told he couldnt reinstate the old policy (having been told her could) and 
then cancel it when Haven said he could reinstate the policy. Taking all the circumstances of the case into account, I think £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience would be 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. I 
require Haven Insurance Company Limited to:  
Pay Mr S £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Haven Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman