DRN-2974408
The complaint
Miss R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt process a request 
made by her financial advisers to merge investments accounts causing her a financial loss.
Miss R would like compensated for the loss in value of her investments and for the trouble 
and upset caused.
What happened
Miss Rs financial advisers contacted Aviva on 10 February 2020 to arrange for three 
investments accounts to be merged into one overall account. The financial advisers wanted 
to perform switches on some investments following the merger process.
Chaser emails were sent to Aviva on 24 February 2020 and 9 March 2020.and the process 
to merge the three investment accounts was completed on the 10 March 2020.
Miss R complained to Aviva that the delays had caused her a financial loss. Miss R said that 
by the time the merger process had been completed, the value of an investment that she 
wanted to switch out of had dropped causing her a loss of £26,205.56.
Aviva investigated the complaint and sent a response on 11 May 2020. They calculated the 
loss to be £1,581.24. Miss Rs financial advisers challenged this figure, but Aviva confirmed 
them to be correct.
Unhappy with Avivas final response, Miss R referred her complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators investigated the complaint. Based on the documentation available to him at 
the time, the investigator thought that Aviva had acted fairly in calculating the loss.
Miss R responded with further information on how she thought the loss should be calculated 
and the investigator contacted Aviva.
Aviva looked at the calculations again and said that they had omitted information and figures 
from one of the accounts. Aviva re-calculated the loss using the new information and found 
this to be £5,484.79.
Aviva also offered Miss R £500 for the trouble and upset caused by the delays in completing 
the merger process.
Miss R did not accept Avivas findings and both Aviva and Miss R have asked for an 
ombudsman to review this complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding Miss Rs complaint, but I think that Aviva have attempted to 
resolve the complaint and I agree with the calculations that they have used and their offer of 
compensation.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Miss R and I will explain why I have arrived 
at this decision.
The details of the complaint and the delay in processing the instructions are known to both 
parties and Aviva have said that they did not process the instructions in a timely manner. Its 
not my intention to go over this part of the complaint but instead focus on the loss 
calculations and offer of compensation.
Calculation of losses incurred
Aviva initially calculated that due to the delays in processing the merge request, Miss R had 
incurred a loss of £1,581.24. When this was challenged, Aviva performed a further 
calculation and found that the loss was £5,484.79.
In her submission to the service, Miss R has said that following a review with her financial 
advisers, she wanted to de-risk a portion of her assets. Miss Rs intention was to have her 
investments merged into one account and then switch some investments.
Miss R says that when the switch should have been processed, the main investment in 
question was valued at £142,993.76 and when the funds were switched, the investment had 
fallen in value to £116,788.20 which represented a loss of £26,205.56.
In their submission to the service, Aviva have said that its aim in calculating the loss is to 
always put the customer back into the correct financial position had the mistake never 
happened.
Aviva said that when calculating the loss, it has looked at the investments as a whole and 
not just the main investment that Miss R wanted to switch. 
I have considered this approach and think that it is reasonable. The service will expect the 
business to put the consumer back into the position it should have been in had the error not 
occurred. Aviva has looked at what the account should have looked like had they carried out 
the instructions in a timely manner.
I acknowledge that Miss R wanted to de-risk some of her assets, but I need to consider what 
the overall effect of this would have been as Aviva had to sell some investments and re-
invest the proceeds into other investments. From what I have seen, the delays caused by 
Aviva resulted in a loss of £5,484.79.
I think that Aviva have acted fairly in producing the second calculation and this is an 
accurate representation of the losses incurred by Miss R and Im not going to ask Aviva to 
do anything further.
Compensation for trouble and upset 
In her submission to the service, Miss R has said that she feels that Aviva acted with hostile 
behaviour and the information that was shared was hard to understand and required hours 
of work from two highly educated people to make sense of the data.
Miss R feels that she was lucky to discover the error, and this may have gone unnoticed had 
she not been able to spend significant periods of time going over spreadsheets. Miss R has 
said that this is incredibly unfair and was an unreasonable expectation for a customer.I note Miss Rs comments and I sympathise with what she has said. It is not the role of the 
service to punish a business when things go wrong but we will look at the impact of the 
complaint on the consumer.
I also note what Miss Rs has said on the work she had to do to make sure the calculation 
was accurate. It is regrettable that Miss R had to do this. The service cant look at what may 
have happened if Miss R had not asked Aviva to carry out the calculations again as we cant 
look at hypothetical situations  only what did happen.
I can see that Aviva had not initially offered any compensation to Miss R for the trouble and 
upset caused and this was reviewed when the re-calculation was done.
Aviva have now offered Miss R £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by their 
error and I think that this is fair and in line with what the service would recommend. Im not 
going to ask them to do anything further.
In summary, Aviva did not act on Miss Rs instructions in a timely manner and this has 
caused a financial loss. Miss R has had to follow up with them to ensure that the loss was 
calculated correctly, and this has caused her trouble and upset.
  
Putting things right
My decision is that the re-calculations carried out by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited are 
adequate and I think that their offer of compensation is fair and reasonable and so I direct 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Miss R these amounts if they have not already 
done so.
Redress of £5.484.79 for the financial loss if not already paid
Compensation of £500 for the trouble and upset caused if not already paid
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman