DRN-2786669
The complaint
Mr and Ms L are unhappy that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) decided not to renew their Home and Lifestyle Insurance policy and they had 
to pay more for cover elsewhere. 
The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr L throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr L had home insurance with NFU for 20 years. In December 2020, after being made 
aware of a change in circumstances, NFU told him that it wouldnt be offering to renew his 
existing policy at the end of the term. 
Mr L complained and suggested that the policy could be renewed in Ms Ls sole name. But 
NFU sent its final response explaining that it had made a business decision not to offer 
cover. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that NFU had made a reasonable 
business decision based on its risk criteria and it wasnt under any obligation to renew cover.
Mr L didnt agree. He understood that NFU could choose not to offer cover in the same way 
he could choose not to stay with NFU. But Mr L didnt think NFU had treated him fairly 
because he wouldnt be able to access his new insurer face to face. 
 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
While I know Mr L is disappointed that NFU decided not to renew his cover after so many 
years, it seems he understands why it made that decision. That said, he thought it would be 
reasonable for it to provide the cover in Ms Ls name. Ive looked at the information NFU 
considered when it decided not to renew the policy and its clear that the same information 
would affect an application in Ms Ls name. Thats because NFU considers the risk level for 
the household, not just the policyholder, so the change in circumstances would still be 
relevant.
Because Mr L explained about his and Ms Ls vulnerability, Ive gone on to think about 
whether NFU treated him fairly, or differently to how it might treat another customer in similar 
circumstances. Mr L mentioned, in particular, the lack of face to face access. Again, I looked 
at why NFU decided not to renew cover. The evidence shows it assessed his circumstances 
against its risk profile and its clear he fell outside the limit of risk it was willing to accept. I 
cant see anything in its actions which suggest that it treated Mr L unfairly or declined cover 
for any reason other than its assessment of risk. 
In summary, NFU decided not to renew Mr Ls cover and it provided him with appropriate 
notice so he could find alternative cover. The evidence shows that its decision was based on 
its risk profile for the household and theres nothing to suggest that NFU treated Mr L 
unfairly. Im not going to ask NFU to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman