DRN-3637787
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with Mr As claim against 
a group, private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, from 1 April 2020, Mr A had membership of a group, private medical 
insurance policy via his wifes, Mrs As, employer. In December 2020, Mr A made a claim 
against the policy in relation to lower back pain. Aviva authorised the claim and Mr A had 
treatment, the cost of which was met by Aviva. 
In June 2021, following exchanges about the arrangement of treatment and payment of a 
further excess, it came to light that Aviva had authorised Mr As claim in error. It said that it 
should have declined the claim as Mr As lower back pain was a pre-existing condition. Aviva 
didnt ask Mr A to refund the payments it had made in relation to his treatment but said that 
his claim shouldnt have been covered. Mr A didnt think that was fair and complained to 
Aviva. 
Mr A said that Aviva was being vindictive in declining his claim in response to his objections 
about the arrangements for treatment and the additional excess. Mr A also complains about 
how Aviva handled his complaint. 
 
In response to Mr As complaint, Aviva maintained its position but offered him compensation 
of £200 in relation to his loss of expectation. Mr A pursued the complaint. He wants 
compensation of a sum equal to the annual premium - £2,136.24 - and additional sums for 
future treatment. He says that if Aviva had declined his claim initially, he wouldnt have paid 
any further premiums.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Aviva was at fault 
in concluding that Mr As condition was pre-existing and therefore excluded under the policy. 
The investigator said that Aviva should have declined Mr As claim at the outset. He said that 
the compensation of £200 Aviva had already offered was fair and reasonable in this case. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
The exclusion on which Aviva seeks to rely is unfair and unreasonable. 
Aviva didnt draw his attention to the exclusion at the time of contracting. 
Compensation of £200 is too low and unfair. 
Mr A asked that an ombudsman consider the claim, so it was passed to me to decide. 
Mr A has included in his complaint his concern about how Aviva handled the complaint. Our 
service can only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the 
additional points that Mr A has raised about the handling of the complaint because it isnt a 
regulated activity. But I can consider how Aviva dealt with Mr As claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr As membership. Mr As membership is 
on a moratorium basis. That means that it doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions or 
related disease, illness or injury he had in the five years before he became a member until 
he has been a member for two years in a row and had a period of two years in a row  
trouble-free from that condition.   
The policy also defines Pre-existing condition as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication, advice, diagnostic tests or treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms, whether the condition has been diagnosed or not
before you joined the policy.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding the 
complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated Mr A unfairly. I say that because:
Ive listened to the recording of Mr As initial call with Aviva about his claim. Mr A said 
that hed had pain in his lower back for around a year and that his condition had got 
worse in the previous three weeks. So, Mr A experienced symptoms of lower back 
pain in the five years before he became a member and hadnt had a trouble-free 
period of two years after he became a member. So, his claim wasnt covered by his 
membership.
Mr A says that the exclusion on which Aviva relies is unfair. Im afraid I dont agree. 
In general terms, an insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover. This type of 
exclusion is common in policies of this nature and I dont think that its unusual or 
unduly onerous. I think that Aviva has shown that the exclusion applies in this 
case.  
Aviva made an error in accepting Mr As claim. It appears that it discovered the error 
when it was looking into other matters. Ive seen nothing to support Mr As contention 
that Aviva acted vindictively in informing him that it had made a mistake. 
When mistakes like this happen, we dont necessarily proceed on the basis that the 
insurer should be bound by the error; we look to see the effect of the error on the 
individual. 
Mr A says that if hed known the true position when he first made the claim, he 
wouldnt have paid any further premiums. I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to proceed on that basis, as the policy provided valuable cover for eligible claims  
and Mr A benefited from the policy in that Aviva paid his claim until it realised its error. So, I dont proceed on the basis that Mr A suffered financial loss as a result of 
Avivas error. 
Here, Mr A had the benefit of cover when he shouldnt have done so. Aviva hasnt 
asked him to reimburse it for payments it made incorrectly. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. But Mr A was disappointed to discover the true position. I think that the 
compensation of £200 Aviva has already offered in relation to that is also fair and 
reasonable. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and 
duration of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A by Avivas error. 
As this is a group, private medical insurance policy via Mrs As employer, the contract 
is between Aviva and Mrs As employer. Aviva provided information and 
documentation to Mrs As employers broker, not Mr A. If Mr A wanted documentation 
it was open to him to contact the group administrator in Mrs As employer. I dont 
think that Aviva was obliged to do anything more than it did when Mr A was added as 
a member. 
Considering everything, there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct Aviva to pay 
Mr A more compensation than that which it has already offered or pay him a sum in 
relation to future treatment which isnt covered by his membership. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs A and Mr As complaint. 
If Mr A wishes to accept the offer Aviva made previously, he should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman