DRN-2653835
The complaint
Mr B complains about delays in the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) by
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr B said he requested the transfer of his SIPP and an ISA on the same day. The ISA 
transfer was completed within a week or so, but the SIPP transfer took 12 weeks. Mr B said 
he was told the cash in his account couldnt be transferred until all in specie transfers had 
been completed. However, when he complained he was told this was wrong and the cash 
was then released before all the fund transfers had been completed. He said he had lost out 
on investment performance due to the delay. He said he made gains of around 10% in his 
ISA in the time between the two transfers and wanted to be compensated using the returns 
he achieved in his ISA.
Barclays said the transfer was set up on 3 December 2018 as completed papers were not 
received until the end of November 2018. The transfer was completed on 26 February when 
the final fund was settled. This meant it took 12 weeks which is longer than they aim for in 
their service level agreement. It accepted that there was an initial delay of 2 weeks before it 
sent a valuation to the new provider on 17 December 2018. Except for two funds the bulk of 
the asset transfers were completed by 22 January which was within 7 weeks. It normally 
sent cash last and within 10 working days of assets being transferred. It said there were 
delays as it had to rely on the fund managers to arrange transfers. It also became clear that 
at least one fund couldnt be accepted by the new provider and needed to be encashed. 
While the new broker requested this, Barclays replied to say it needed a direct instruction 
from Mr B and not from the new provider. It accepted there had been a delay of about two 
weeks and paid compensation.
It paid interest at the rate of 8% simple from 3 December to 11 February (rather than just 
from two weeks earlier than the transfer to the date of transfer which gave Mr B over £300 
more) of £1564.27 less tax of 312.85. That was paid on 2 April 2019. It also paid £200 for 
distress and inconvenience, £90 to cover the transfer fee and £25 to cover the final trade. 
This meant it paid a total £1879.27.
It said there was a different process for SIPP transfers compared to ISA transfers. There 
was a delay due to a fund manager that was outside their control. This meant the final fund 
transfer wasnt confirmed until 26 February 2019. However, the fund price had risen so there 
was no loss.
One fund couldnt be held by the new provider so was removed from the transfer on 9 
January. It couldnt know this until it was advised by the new provider. The new provider said 
a disinvestment was needed but was told the instruction needed to come from Mr B direct. It 
took some time before the new provider told Mr B and this delayed the completion of the 
transfer. This was explained to Mr B on 14 February 2019. However, as the account was 
closed it needed to be reopened to activate the instruction so was finally sold on 20 February 
2019.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In summary I said the following.
Barclays accepts there was a delay in making the transfer. I have considered how long that 
delay was and how to measure any financial loss and any award for distress and 
inconvenience.
Delay
Barclays says it has a service level agreement under which it aims to complete transfers 
within a certain time. This is a helpful indication that transfers can take weeks especially 
where funds are transferred in specie. I think it is reasonable that a transfer which includes in 
specie funds can take longer than a transfer of cash. However, I think the appropriate 
measure of whether there has been a delay should be based on the facts of the case not on 
an assumed target period.
I have seen the correspondence from the time. I can see it took some time for the new 
provider to send the transfer request in a readable format and the transfer was first accepted 
for processing by Barclays on 3 December 2018. I can also see that there was a delay in 
sending a valuation to the new provider until 17 December  this is the two weeks delay that 
Barclays accepts.
On 2 January 2019 the new provider confirmed it can accept the fund transfers but on 9 
January changes its mind and says there is one fund that it cannot accept. Barclays say it 
removed it from the transfer on 9 January and on 10 January confirmed to the new provider 
that it needed to get Mr B to instruct a sale of that fund. I dont think the time taken between 
2 and 10 January was the fault of Barclays.
Barclays says it next had contact with Mr B in early February by email. It advised him of what 
he needed to do. It said Mr B finally gave instructions to sell his fund and proceeds of sale 
credited to his account on 20 February 2019 yielding around £22,000. I can see the £22,000 
missed the cash transfer that Barclays had expedited following a complaint by Mr B. It said 
the account was checked periodically, and the remaining cash paid out on 20 March 2019. In 
the time between 10 January and early February Barclays settled various fund transfers and 
issued an updated valuation to the new provider.
It seems there was a delay between 10 January and the date Mr B gave instructions to sell 
the fund that couldnt be transferred. Barclays says it is for the new provider to advise the 
customer of what is needed to progress their transfer. It said when it was accepting a 
transfer in, it took responsibility for making sure a customer gave the required instructions 
and the new provider shouldve done the same in this case.
But I dont agree. Mr B remained a customer until all his assets were transferred out. 
Barclays knew he needed to instruct the sale of a fund but didnt advise him of that until early 
February. While it might be customary to rely on the new provider, I think Barclays had a 
duty to Mr B to act in his best interests. I think that reasonably included telling him what he 
needed to do to encash a fund that couldnt be transferred to the new provider. I can see 
from the file that when Mr B was contacted in early February, he said he thought hed 
already given a direction for the sale. But I cannot see a record of that on Barclays file. Had 
it made contact directly with Mr B at an earlier stage I think much of this delay couldve been 
avoided.
I note Mr B says he was told cash was transferred last but then Barclays changed their mind 
when he chased in early February 2019. But I dont think Barclays changed its policy instead 
the file note shows the adviser agreed to expedite the transfer. It instructed the transfer on 
11 February and the cash was received into the new provider account on 19 February 2019. I think it is reasonable practice to transfer all the cash when all realisations are complete. So, 
I dont think there was any unreasonable delay in the transfer of cash on 11 February. 
However, had Barclays chased in the sale I think the transfer wouldve happened sooner 
than it did, and a second cash transfer wouldnt have been needed.
Financial loss and distress and inconvenience
Overall, I think Barclays caused two weeks of delay in December. Its failure to contact Mr B 
in January regarding the encashment didnt help reduce the further four-week delay between 
early January and early February. I also think there was a further delay of four weeks before 
the final £22,000 was transferred out. So overall there was up to 10 weeks of delay in total. I 
think the two weeks delay in December wouldve meant the transfer of cash in February
was two weeks later than might otherwise have been the case.
The delay between January and February meant that the delayed fund sale delayed the
cash transfer  which was then allowed to go ahead. It also meant the cash from the fund
sale missed the cash transfer and was then delayed by a further four weeks.
Mr B lost the use of his cash due to these delays. I note however that the delayed fund
encashment didnt create a loss as Barclays confirmed it went up in value during this time.
I needed to consider if there is any financial loss caused by the delays and whether to make 
an award for distress and inconvenience. In making an award for financial loss the law would 
seek to put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in but for the mistake, in this case 
delays.
I have considered Mr Bs suggestion that his loss should be measured by reference to the 
gain he achieved in his ISA. But I dont agree. I say that because the law directs 
compensation for the actual loss. The ISA was in cash and transferred very quickly. The 
SIPP wasnt a simple cash transfer, so could never have been completed at the same time 
or in the same timescale.
I have seen the pattern of Mr Bs investments post transfer. This reveals a phased pattern of 
reinvestment over a period of months rather than an immediate and full reinvestment. Mr B 
has also been clear he would time investments when the market was falling. This makes 
measuring any loss due to the delay more difficult and doesnt show Mr B was in haste to 
reinvest everything at once.
Of the around £182,000 received in February 2019 roughly 14% was invested by the end of 
February, around 28% by the end of March, the remainder is invested in phases through to 
August. That doesnt suggest a pattern of time pressured reinvestment whereby the delay 
made a difference. It seems most likely to me that his investments would have followed a 
very similar pattern notwithstanding the delays. Its also clear that the delay in the second 
cash transfer didnt delay his investment as by the time it was received Mr B hadnt fully 
invested the first transfer.
It is however appropriate that Mr B is compensated for loss of use of his money during the 
delays. This service would make an award loss of use at the rate of 8% per annum simple 
and in these circumstances, I think this is a reasonable basis to use. 
I note that Barclays say they calculated interest at this rate from 3 December 2018 which 
was the date they say they were first able to proceed with starting the transfer to 11 
February on the circa £182,000 of cash in Mr Bs account. Given this the compensation for 
loss of use covers the whole period of delay. I think this compensates for the initial delay of 
two weeks, the further delay of up to four weeks due to the fund sale and the final delay of four weeks (which related to a much lower amount of around £22,000). So, I think the 
amount already paid by Barclays is fair and reasonable.
I note Barclays have also covered the cost of transfer and disinvestment which are costs
which would always have been payable by Mr B and gives him further benefit.
I think the circumstances are such that an award for distress and inconvenience would be 
appropriate. The purpose of such an award is to reflect the impact on Mr B not to punish 
Barclays. I can see that the delay was frustrating, and Mr B needed to spend time chasing. 
Having considered this I think the £200 paid by Barclays together with the waiver of charges 
created an award which is of the magnitude that I wouldve considered, and I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt make any further comments. Barclays said it was important to note that the type 
of account Mr B held was split in terms of administration and platform. Different parties acted 
as the pension administrator and platform providers. Mr B would have had terms and 
conditions for both businesses in terms of the management of their SIPP.
Instructions from the customer are carried out by the administrator who then liaises with the 
platform provider.
It also said the role of the new broker or receiver of the transfer should instruct the customer 
to act where they cannot facilitate a stock on their platform. The new provider was advised to 
notify Mr B that they could not hold the particular investment on their platform, it noted the 
comments about duty of care to the customer but said the administrator made it clear to the 
new provider that they needed to talk with Mr B about this and to have him contact them to 
initiate the trade should he wish the transfer to continue. It repeated that in a reverse 
situation this is what it would do. It had nothing further to add and accepted this was a poor 
transfer experience for Mr B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have not changed my mind.
I have considered the comments made by Barclays, about the different roles of the 
administrator and platform provider. But I think both would have had a duty to Mr B and both 
needed to work together to support Mr B to understand what was needed. That would mean 
telling him what was needed to encash the fund. Even if I am wrong, I have concluded that 
Barclays has already made a fair and reasonable payment. So, it would not affect the 
outcome.  
Putting things right
As I have not changed my mind, I have not changed the direction I proposed to make in my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
I direct that the compensation already paid by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and
reasonable and in line with the level that I wouldve awarded had it not made any payment.
So, I dont propose to make any further award against Barclays.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman