DRN-2948859
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE didn't provide him with a copy of his 
Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy, which he bought from a third-party car 
dealership. 
All references to Great Lakes in this decision include its administrative agents.
What happened
Mr B bought a car from a car dealership in 2018 and was sold a GAP policy, provided by 
Great Lakes, at the same time. The policy was due to run for three years.
In 2020, Mr B contacted the car dealership regarding cancelling the policy as, by that time, 
he no longer had the car. He was referred to Great Lakes as the insurer and complained to it 
that hed never received a copy of the policy terms and conditions either at the time of the 
sale or afterwards.
Great Lakes cancelled the policy and offered Mr B a proportional refund of the premium 
based on the remaining term of the policy. Regarding the policy document, Great Lakes said 
it believed the policy terms had been sent to the email address hed provided to the 
dealership when he bought the car and the policy in 2018.  
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr B referred his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They said they 
believed, on balance, that Great Lakes had told Mr B about the start of the policy and that he 
hadnt questioned anything about the policy details or documents at the time. The 
investigator felt Great Lakes had cancelled the policy in 2020 in line with the policy terms 
and that, overall, it hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mr B didn't agree with the investigators findings, saying Great Lakes had changed its story 
about how it had sent him the policy documents and that its failings had put him at a 
disadvantage in terms of being able to understand what hed bought. The complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
As I understand the crux of Mr Bs complaint, hes unhappy about not having received the 
policy documents he should have had at the time of the sale in 2018, or even afterwards. He 
feels the lack of information made it more difficult for him to understand the product he was 
buying. In Mr Bs email to the investigator in July 2021, he said in my view the overall 
experience amounts to mis selling and that I dont see how a side of A4 from a third party 
(the car dealer) just saying the policy exists fulfils the relevant regulatory requirements for 
selling insurance. These comments echo those Mr Bs made throughout his complaint.
So, what Mr Bs effectively really complaining about, I believe, is that he was mis-sold the 
policy. However, I dont believe Great Lakes is responsible for the sale of the policy. Rather 
the available information indicates to me that the third-party car dealership, acting as an 
insurance intermediary or broker, was responsible. 
I believe, on that basis, that Great Lakes isnt responsible for how the policy was sold. If 
Mr B wishes to complain to the broker about that issue, its open for him to do so. But I cant 
fairly hold Great Lakes responsible for the actions of the broker in selling the policy.
Having addressed what Im not able to consider in this complaint about Great Lakes, Ill now 
turn to what I can consider  that is, how Great Lakes (and its agents on its behalf) 
administered the policy. 
Its not clear that Great Lakes sent Mr B the policy terms and conditions after the policy was 
sold. The paperwork Great Lakes says it sent him at the time shows, on balance, that he 
was likely to have been aware hed been sold the cover. While the papers dont specifically 
mention that its sent him a copy of the policy terms, its reasonable to expect that Mr B 
might have questioned their absence nearer the time if he didnt get them. Great Lakes has 
no record of him doing so until 2020. 
But any failing by Great Lakes wouldnt, in itself, be enough for me to uphold the complaint. 
Id also want to see evidence showing Mr B lost out as a result of that failing.
I havent seen enough in the available evidence to show Mr B would have done anything 
differently even if hed seen the policy terms. I realise that he cancelled the policy in 2020, 
but I understand that was when he no longer had the car the policy was intended to protect. 
That he didnt want the policy in 2020 doesnt necessarily mean he also didnt want the 
policy when it was first added in 2018.  
In terms of the cancellation of the policy, it seems that Great Lakes processed Mr Bs 
request without undue delay. I think it worked out the refund Mr B was due, taking into 
account its stated cancellation charge of £35, fairly and in line with the policy terms.  
Overall, and having considered the aspects of Mr Bs complaint that Great Lakes is 
responsible for, I dont believe its caused him to lose out.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman