DRN-2913232
The complaint
Ms J complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) were wrong to reject a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) about the 
quality of furniture she had purchased.
Ms J has been represented by her son throughout this complaint but for ease, and as Ms J is 
the name on the finance agreement, I will refer to her throughout.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Ms J made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
misrepresentation
Ms J says the invoice doesnt represent the amount she agreed to pay for the items.
As the retailer is no longer trading it hasnt been possible to gather any further information 
from them and Ms J hasnt provided enough information for me to consider the business 
position likely to be incorrect.
Im persuaded that the amount financed through the fixed sum loan of £3,600 is accounted 
for by adding up the main invoice and delivery note and deducting the £400 deposit. In the 
absence of other persuasive information, I think its likely the difference of £1,314.82 relates 
to the sofa Ms J had said was included in the purchase. 
quality of goods
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the goods should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If they werent then Hitachi are responsible. The relevant 
law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Ms J has commissioned a report by an independent expert. He inspected the dressing table 
and coffee table and thought that both of these products were poorly manufactured. He said 
the coffee table closure was not a soft close and the safe mechanism didnt work on the 
dressing table.
He said the price Ms J paid for the items did not match the quality she had received.
The relevant legislation says that we should consider whether goods have proven to be 
suitably durable when we think about whether they have been of satisfactory quality. Having 
considered the experts comments, I dont think the dressing table can be considered to be 
suitably durable as I think Ms J was entitled to expect it to last longer than it has. The 
independent expert has suggested it would be uneconomical to repair it so I think it would be 
fair for Hitachi to refund the amount Ms J spent on it. I think its likely this was £441.91 as 
thats the amount listed on the invoice after the discount is applied.
Im not persuaded I have sufficient evidence there is a fault with the coffee table. The 
independent inspector, and the inspector who looked at the table in February 2020, both 
noted there was no soft close on the item. But they didnt say the soft closure mechanism 
had broken or that it should have been present. Im therefore not persuaded there is enough 
information to suggest there was any fault with the item. And, even if I was, the invoice 
explains that the coffee table wasnt charged for, so I dont think there would be anything for 
Hitachi to refund.
The inspection completed in February 2020 explained that the wardrobe doors were not 
closing properly and that new runners would need to be fitted. I think its likely this issue was 
present from the beginning as Im persuaded by the testimony of Ms Js representative that 
Ms J was likely to have made frequent representations to the supplier about the quality of 
this item. Ive also found no reason to dispute Ms Js assertion that assembly of the 
wardrobe was included in the price.
It seems clear, and Hitachi have accepted the fact, that repair is not practical for the 
wardrobe and a replacement isnt practical either. So, in those circumstances, I would agree 
that Hitachi should refund the cost of the item; which Im persuaded is £940.47 after the 
discount listed on the invoice is applied. 
Ms J has had to commission an independent inspector and as I think that inspector has 
demonstrated a fault with the goods it would be fair to tell Hitachi to refund the inspection 
cost.
Ms J has suggested they should also refund the cost of a bed she financed. Theres no 
complaint about the quality of that item so I dont think it would be fair to suggest theres evidence of any breach of contract or that Hitachi need to take any further action in that 
regard.
  
Putting things right
Hitachi should refund the cost of the wardrobe (£940.47) and the dresser (£441.91) I think 
its fair for them to refund this against any outstanding finance. Theyll also need to refund 
the cost of the independent inspection report Ms J has had completed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to 
deduct the cost of the wardrobe (£940.47) and the dresser (£441.91) from the outstanding 
finance, refunding any excess if any excess is present after the deduction.
They should refund the cost of the independent inspection report (£240) Ms J has paid for.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman