DRN-2393350
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited have dealt with a 
potential claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr B said he called Lloyds in June 2020 as he needed to discuss structural problems 
(cracking) that had appeared at his property. When Mr B was put through to an advisor, 
there was a discussion about a contact number not being recorded for him. Mr B raised a 
complaint as he was unhappy with how the adviser conducted the call.
Mr B received a final response from Lloyds a few weeks later and called them as he was 
unhappy with their response. Mr B said he had called to discuss the issues with cracking at 
his property, not to discuss his policy as Lloyds response suggested. Lloyds arranged for 
someone to call back about the cracking issue.
Lloyds said they called Mr B back but was unable to reach him. They said they had been 
able to locate contact details for Mr B from a past system note.
Mr B says he has never received a call from Lloyds and so has not been able to progress 
with any potential claim.
Our investigator recommended we partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said she couldnt 
see anything to suggest the cracking issue was discussed in Mr Bs original call. She felt Mr 
B had suffered inconvenience with the issues experienced with Lloyds holding a contact 
number for him and recommended they pay him £50 compensation.
But she said she had seen Lloyds had attempted to call Mr B back to discuss the cracking 
issue but hadnt been able to reach him. So, theyd acted fairly.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has now passed to me. Mr B has 
provided further submissions for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has strong views about what happened. I want to assure him Ive read 
and considered everything hes said carefully. However, I hope Mr B wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have 
raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
Mr B and by Lloyds and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I will be directing Lloyds to pay Mr B £50 
compensation, as I feel this fairly reflects the inconvenience he has been caused. Ill explain 
why:
Lloyds said they dont have a phone number registered to Mr Bs policy, but they did 
have it on file from a previous claim. During the second call, the advisor also 
mentions having two numbers on file for Mr B. So, I think its likely Lloyds had an 
opportunity previously to update Mr Bs details on their main system, but this didnt 
happen
At the beginning of the call in June 2020 Mr B said he had been asked by Lloyds 
several times previously if he wanted to provide a contact number. Its not unusual for 
a business to ask their customer for a contact number  or to check they still hold the 
correct information. But I can appreciate why Mr B would be frustrated at being asked 
if he wanted to provide one, and then told there was no phone number registered, 
when hed been contacted by Lloyds, or their agents in the past
Mr B said he called Lloyds in June 2020 because he wanted to discuss cracks that 
had appeared in his property. Ive listened to the call between Mr B and the advisor  
but this wasnt discussed as the call deteriorated and was terminated before the 
conversation could move on to the purpose of the call
Mr B called Lloyds again after he received a complaint response from them. He 
explained the purpose of his original call was to discuss cracking in his property. 
Lloyds arranged for a call back, but Mr B says he never received one
Lloyds said they tried to call Mr B back. They said they found contact details from a 
previous claim and have provided records from their call system showing they 
attempted to call Mr B. The number matches the number Mr B has provided to this 
service and I can see from a system note they called to discuss the issues with the 
cracking. So Im persuaded they did try to call Mr B to discuss the issues he reported, 
so I dont think theyve acted unreasonably here
Overall, I think Mr B has been caused inconvenience, so I think Lloyds should pay 
Mr B £50 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited should pay Mr B £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman