DRN-3974038
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Niche) gave 
him to transfer the benefits from one of his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
schemes to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr E to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Es.
What happened
Mr E was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In 2017 Mr E 
approached Niche about giving him advice about his pension provision.
Niche gathered information about Mr Es DB scheme entitlements. It produced a pension 
transfer report. Such reports are usually referred to as transfer value analysis reports 
(TVAS), so thats the term Ill use in this decision. Niche also ran cashflow models to show 
how Mr E might meet his spending needs in retirement.
Niche also conducted a fact-find with Mr E. Amongst other things Niche noted that Mr E was 
aged 49, in good health, married with two children, one of whom remained financially 
dependent on him and his wife. He had various savings and investments worth around 
£415,000 in total. He owned his home and was mortgage free. He had a money purchase 
personal pension worth around £24,000 and was also a member of his (then) current 
employers DB scheme  but that scheme is not the subject of this decision. Mr Es former 
employers DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £505,050 
which would pay him a pension at the schemes normal retirement age of 60 of £19,179 a 
year. Niche assessed Mr Es attitude to risk as cautious balanced.
In October 2017 Niche sent Mr E its suitability report setting out its advice. It recommended 
that Mr E should transfer the funds from his former employers DB scheme to a named 
personal pension. It said the growth rate required to match the benefits from the DB fund 
(the critical yield) was 8.52%. It also said that  while this yield was not unachievable  
there was no guarantees of reaching that investment return. It added that by transferring his 
DB funds Mr E was likely to be worse off in retirement. It then said that there were other 
positive reasons to recommend a transfer including:
Mr E would have control over the pension, how it was invested, and the level of 
income he wanted to take from it from age 55.
It would provide more flexible death benefits for his family.
If the DB scheme were to go into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, the required 
critical yield would be reduced to 7.67% and that figure was not unachievable.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members
of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level
of the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ
from the original scheme.
Mr E accepted Niches advice and the DB funds at issue were transferred to the named
personal pension.
In 2022 Mr E complained to Niche. In brief he said that Niches advice wasnt suitable for 
him. Niche replied. It didnt uphold the complaint. Amongst other things it said it had fulfilled 
its regulatory requirements.
Mr E brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
Niche had dealt with Mr E fairly. So he said it should pay Mr E compensation including £250 
to address his distress and inconvenience arising from Niches unsuitable advice.
Niche didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint so its been referred 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and responding to it Mr E and Niche have made a number of 
points. I've considered everything on file. But in this decision I don't intend to address each 
and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key matters at the 
heart of this complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niche's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Es best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
Financial viability
Niche carried out a TVAS (as required by the regulator) showing how much Mr Es pension 
fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme (the critical yield).
Niche gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 our Service 
published similar rates on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these 
rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr E was 49 at the time of the advice. The DB schemes normal retirement age was 60. The 
critical yield required to match Mr Es scheme benefits at age 60 was 8.52% if he took a full 
pension. The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer 
to was published by our Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 3.8% per 
year for 10 full years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had 
also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Es 
cautious balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr E giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical 
yield was 8.52%, I think Mr E was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to 
risk.
Niche has provided cashflow models which show that Mr E would have been able to meet 
his income needs in retirement despite the high critical yield. Ive considered these, but Im 
not persuaded by them. And I've noted that some of them appear to include inaccuracies.
For example more than one of the models seems to show Mr E taking pension benefits from 
age 50. But the earliest Mr E could take pension benefits is age 55. Niches models also 
show Mr E accessing, and in some cases depleting entirely, his other savings and 
investments in order to meet those income needs. And while thats not an unreasonable 
expectation, unless Mr E could secure consistent investment growth higher than the discount 
rate the models dont seem to show Mr E being any better off by transferring. So they don't 
persuade me that a transfer was in Mr Es best interests financially.
In fact its notable that Niche itself agreed in its suitability report that Mr E was unlikely to be 
able to achieve the investment growth required in order to match the benefits from his DB 
scheme. And as he was likely to be worse off in retirement I dont think the advice to transfer 
was suitable for Mr E. In those circumstances its all the more important that the other 
reasons for transferring were sufficiently compelling. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Niche recorded that Mr E said hed like to retire at age 50. Although he was aware that, 
owing to pensions rules, the earliest he could access any of his pension benefits was from age 55. But, he told Niche he would use his savings to support his income until he could 
claim his pension benefits at age 55.
I dont doubt that, when asked, Mr E told Niche that he would prefer to retire at age 50. And I 
can fully understand that desire. I think most people would say when asked that they would 
like to retire as early as possible if given the chance. But I think that was likely more of an 
aspiration than a definite plan. And I believe most people would understand that having the 
opportunity to retire early isn't worth compromising their income security over the remainder 
of their life for. It seems to me that this is something Mr E was likely to reassess once he 
grew nearer to retirement age.
Further, Niches suitability report and TVAS contain very little in the way of analysis to show 
exactly how Mr E taking his pension benefits at 55 would affect him. Mr E could have, if he 
had wanted to, taken his benefits from the DB scheme at age 55. Although his pension 
would have been reduced by the schemes early retirement factors if hed chosen to do so.
But the advantage of that approach would have been that Mr E could then have continued to 
receive guaranteed and index linked increases in his DB pension for the remainder of his 
life. That could then have allowed him to reduce the income he was taking from his savings, 
if in fact that was what he chose to do. But Niches suitability report and TVAS dont show 
any form of analysis of what Mr Es entitlement from his DB scheme would be at age 55. So 
it doesn't present critical yield figures to demonstrate the growth rates required to match 
those benefits. And given that Mr E apparently told Niche that he wanted to take pension 
benefits at 55, I would have expected to see such analysis. But Niche didnt give Mr E the 
figures for him to be able to make such a comparison. It follows that I don't think Niche 
presented all the information Mr E needed in order to see how the benefits from the DB 
scheme, if he took those at 55, compared with his likely income from a personal pension. 
And, in order to allow him to make a fully informed decision I think that was something that 
Niche needed to do.
In any event, I dont think Mr E had a concrete need to take early retirement. In fact Mr E has 
since confirmed that he didnt retire at 50 and has no intention of retiring in the immediate 
future. And while Niche couldnt have been certain of that at the time, as I've said above, for 
most people, early retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would reduce 
most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at 
an early retirement age, the majority choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue 
working to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems to be a more 
likely prospect for Mr E. But theres no evidence that Niche seriously challenged his desire 
for early retirement. So I dont think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light of 
what he would be giving up.
That said, its true to say that Mr E couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take his DB 
funds early, if hed wanted to take tax free cash (TFC), then he would have had to take that 
at the same time as drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the personal 
pension would allow Mr E to draw down funds as he saw fit, once hed turned 55. Its also 
the case that Mr E could have taken 25% of his entire personal pension fund as TFC. But 
the DB scheme has stricter rules about how much can be taken as a tax-free lump sum. But 
while I can see why a higher lump sum, and more choice over how much to take and when, 
might have been an attractive prospect to him, Im not persuaded that Mr E had any 
concrete need to take TFC at all or to vary his income throughout retirement. And if Mr E did 
need flexible access to funds, he could have arranged to take those from his savings or from 
his money purchase pension schemes.
Ill repeat that I dont think Niche gave Mr E all the information he needed in order to make a 
fully informed decision about the transfer. Whilst Mr E didnt have any obvious need for TFC, Niches TVAS doesn't give the TFC figures at any age. The suitability report does say that 
Mr E could take TFC of around £73,000 at age 65. But the schemes normal retirement age 
was 60 not 65. So it's not clear why Niche gave that date for Mr E taking TFC. Similarly, the 
suitability report said that Mr E could take a yearly pension at age 65 of £19,179. But that 
was Mr Es DB yearly pension entitlement at age 60, so I dont think Niche presented Mr Es 
DB entitlement clearly and in a manner that would not mislead.
It follows that I'm not convinced that Mr E had all the information he needed in order to 
decide whether or not it was in his best interests to transfer his DB funds so he could access 
those flexibly. I understand that the option of drawing all his pension income flexibly might 
seem like something that would be nice to have. But, I can't see that Mr E had any genuine 
need for that flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for. So I dont think 
it was in his best interests to transfer to achieve that.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr E. Thats because whatever 
was left within his personal pension at the date of his death would be passed on to his 
family. And, if that happened before his retirement or soon after then that would likely be a 
significant sum.
In contrast the DB scheme would pay Mr Es wife two-thirds of his yearly pension after he 
died. But that pension would die with her. However, whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Mr E might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr E about 
what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide income 
in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. But in transferring out of the DB scheme 
Mr E was essentially giving up a guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, 
in exchange for a potential lump sum for his family the size of which was dependent on 
investment performance and how much the fund had been depleted by at the time Mr E 
died.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Its 
worth pointing out that Niche  incorrectly  referred to the spouses pension in its suitability 
report as being only 50% (rather than two-thirds) of Mr Es yearly pension. So Mrs Es death 
benefit entitlement from the DB scheme was 66.6% of Mr Es yearly pension and that would 
be calculated as if he had not taken any TFC, even if he had, in fact, done so. That pension 
would be payable to her until her death. And I dont think Niche made the value of these 
death benefits clear enough to Mr E when compared to those available from a personal 
pension. Not only were they guaranteed and escalated but they were not dependent on 
investment performance or how much was left in the pot, whereas the sum available to 
Mr Es family on his death in a personal pension was.
Given the size of the CETV I can understand that Mr E might have thought that guaranteed a 
significant lump sum for his family on his death. But, the available fund was reliant on a 
number of factors, including investment growth. And a period of poor performance, 
particularly if the invested fund suffered losses, could reduce the sum available as a death 
benefit. Also, the fund would reduce as Mr E drew down money from it. So if he took higher 
sums from it in the early years of his retirement, then that could significantly reduce the 
amounts available to live off, let alone to leave as a legacy for his family on his death.
If Mr E genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns, I think Niche could have explored life insurance with him. I understand that such cover can be expensive. But if he didnt want to pay a significant premium then Niches 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mr E how much he would ideally like to leave to his 
family. It could then have looked into cover for that sum to find something affordable that met 
his needs.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. And I think Niche should 
have made this clear to him.
Control
Niche said that by transferring from the DB scheme Mr E would gain control over how his 
pension was invested. But while Mr E did have some limited investment experience, I dont 
think he can be said to be a sophisticated investor. So I doubt that he had any genuine 
desire to start taking control of the investment decisions associated with his pension fund. 
And it's notable in any event that the funds Niche recommended Mr E invest in were 
managed funds that required no active investment management from Mr E. Also, Mr E would 
be paying Niche an ongoing service fee, of £1,500 a year, to give him investment advice. So, 
in practice, he would be delegating control of the investment decisions to financial 
professionals. It follows that I dont think this was a genuine objective for Mr E  it was 
simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Niche said that Mr E had concerns about his DB scheme moving into the PPF. But its 
anything but clear why Mr E would have those concerns. The evidence on file shows that 
Mr Es scheme was fully funded. And, as far as I'm aware, there were no genuine concerns 
over the DB schemes sponsoring employers solvency that could have meant that the 
scheme was likely to move into the PPF at any point in the immediate future. So I think 
Niche should have taken the time to explain to Mr E that his concerns on this point appeared 
to be without foundation. But theres no evidence it did that. Instead, it said that transferring 
his DB funds to a personal pension could allay those concerns. And given that there didnt 
appear to be any genuine reason to worry about the scheme funding I don't think Niches 
advice was clear, fair and not misleading.
Summary
I dont doubt that the ability to have flexible access to his pension benefits and the potential 
for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mr E. But Niche wasnt there to just transact what Mr E might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr E needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think Niches advice was suitable for Mr E. He was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr E was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. The option to access his pension flexibly and the 
potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his 
DB scheme.
So, I think Niche shouldve advised Mr E to remain in his DB scheme.
In the interests of fairness Ive thought about whether Mr E would've gone ahead anyway, 
against Niche's advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr E would 
have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Niches advice. I say this because Mr E wasnt a sophisticated investor; he had a cautious balanced attitude to risk 
that was unlikely to mean his investments would make him better off in retirement. And this 
pension accounted for a large part of his retirement provision. So, if Niche had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Niche should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Further, Mr Es explained to us that the impact of Niches advice has caused him sleepless 
nights and worry. That wouldnt have happened if Niche had advised him appropriately. So 
to address that I think Niche should pay Mr E £250.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance/rules. I consider its fair 
that Niche calculates Mr Es redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come 
into effect.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr E.
Niche must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).
For clarity, while Mr E has yet to retire, his DB schemes normal retirement age was 60. And he could have taken his full pension at that age. So, in line with the FCAs guidance 
compensation should be based on his taking benefits at this age.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this calculation should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Niche has 
received notification of Mr Es acceptance of my decision. Further, Niche must add interest 
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr E.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Niche deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr E how much has been taken off. Niche should give Mr E a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Niche should provide details of its calculations to Mr E and his representative in a clear, 
simple format.
In addition it should pay Mr E £250 to address his distress and inconvenience arising from 
the unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I would additionally require 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I would only require 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on 
the sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman