DRN-2930504
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly reduced his 
credit limit.
What happened
Mr J had a credit limit on his account with Barclaycard of £8,000 which it reduced to £250 in 
April 2021. He complained and asked for the limit to be reinstated.
Barclaycard says it reviewed his account following two missed payments and noted he didnt 
use his full credit limit. Based on the missed payments and lack of use, it decided to reduce 
his credit limit.
Mr J was unhappy with Barclaycards response and referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said the terms of the account enable Barclaycard to reduce or 
withdraw a credit limit at any time and felt that Barclaycard had acted reasonably in doing so. 
Barclaycard accepted what our investigator said, but Mr J didnt. In summary, he accepted 
that Barclaycard was entitled to review the limit, but it must be done fairly. He felt the limit 
had been reduced on the basis of a review without valid substantiation and there should 
have been sufficient notice given. 
As there was no agreement, Mr Js complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard has provided many statements of Mr Js account and the terms and conditions 
which go with it. I can see that there was a small balance of just over £10 outstanding on the 
statement dated 3 February 2021, with a minimum payment requested of £5. The March 
statement shows the balance had increased slightly due to interest and that the minimum 
payment had not been received. There is a note on the statement saying you have failed to 
make the minimum payment. Failing to make your minimum payment can mean that you 
have broken the terms of this credit agreement. It went on to say that Weve suspended 
your account The minimum payment that month had increased to £10 due by 6 April 2021.
The statement dated 7 April 2021 shows the balance had increased again due to a further 
interest charge, and no payment had been received. It included an arrears notice because 
Mr J was behind with [his] payments and his payments are now two months overdue. It 
said to get your account back on track, please make a first payment of £10 as soon as 
possible. Followed by a further payment of £0.71 to reach us by 05/05/2021.
The 6 May 2021 statement shows that Mr J made the required payment of £10.71 on 
19 April 2021 and continued to make limited use of the account. A message on the 
statement highlights that your credit limit has been changed. Your new credit limit is £250.
Section 4 of the terms and conditions of the account says that Barclaycard will send a 
statement every month and tell the customer the minimum payment due. It says, you must 
pay at least your minimum paymentby the due dateevery month. Section 6, which 
covers credit limits says it will review credit limits from time to time and If we change your 
credit limit, well write to let you know. Section 12 regarding using the account, says if we 
reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have the 
right not to give you any notice beforehand.
Barclaycard had given Mr J notice that hed missed payments and that his account had been 
suspended. It was entitled under the terms and conditions of the account to review his credit 
limit at any time.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 6.7.3A says a credit card 
provider must monitor a credit card customers repayment recordand take appropriate 
action where there are signs of actual or possible financial difficulties.  CONC 1.3.1G sets 
out circumstances which may indicate that a customer is in financial difficulties including 
consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card.
As set out in CONC, missing payments can be an early sign of financial difficulties, although 
I accept that Mr J says this was not the case here. But Mr J had missed two consecutive 
months of repayments and Barclaycard had brought that to his attention through his 
statements, so it was not unreasonable for Barclaycard to review his limit. It took its decision 
to reduce the limit based on an assessment of risk as set out in Section 12 of the terms and 
conditions, so I dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so his credit limit without notice.
Ultimately it is for Barclaycard to decide what a reasonable limit is for its customer, provided 
it acts fairly and reasonably. In Mr Js case, it spotted signs of potential financial difficulties 
and took a decision to reduce his credit limit to a level which more than covered his balance 
for the previous six months. I dont think that was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman