DRN-2568482
The complaint
Mrs O says Novaloans Ltd trading as Cash4unow lent to her irresponsibly. She says she 
was in a debt spiral at the time of lending and so she couldnt afford the loans. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Cash4unow provided to Mrs O in July 2019. 
Mrs O borrowed £400 and she was due to make six monthly repayments of £127.68. I 
understand Mrs O has been unable to repay the loan in full. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He thought that Cash4unow had information when it 
lent that showed this loan was unlikely to be sustainable for Mrs O.
Cas4unow disagreed with the adjudicators opinion but it didnt say why this was. As no 
agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Os complaint and have explained why below.
As our adjudicator explained, Cash4unows checks showed that Mrs O had a significant 
amount of other debt when she took these loans with Cash4unow. This included around 
£1,650 that was oustanding on three other short term loans. The repayments to these 
would be due at the same time as Mrs O would need to repay the Cash4unow loan. So 
whilst Mrs Os income seemed to make this loan look affordable she was clearly already 
borrowing form other short term lenders. This means there was a real chance she wouldnt 
be able to make her loan repayments sustainabley, that is without further borrowing. 
And if Cash4unow had looked further into Mrs Os circumstances it wouldve seen that she 
was struggling to repay her existing commitments. She had two unsatisfied county court 
judgments. These wernt recent, but I think being unable to satisfy them points to ongoing 
problems. She was also having some more immediate repayment problems with her 
exisitng credit. As our adjudicator said, she was in arrears on some of her other credit, and 
she had been for some time. 
So, the information Cash4unow had, showed that Mrs O had long term, and ongoing, 
finanical problems. I think its unlikely that she was just using the loan to help with a 
temporary cash flow problem. And I think Cash4unow shouldve seen Mrs O wasnt likely to 
have been able repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
So, I think that Cash4unow shouldnt have given this loan to Mrs O and I think shes lost 
out as a result of this. Im upholding Mrs Os complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cash4unow should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mrs O. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs O may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs O in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs O would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cash4unows liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cash4unow shouldnt have given Mrs O loans this loan.If Cash4unow has sold the outstanding debt Cash4unow should buy it back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Cash4unow is not able to buy the debts back then 
Cash4unow should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Cash4unow should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs O towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Cash4unow should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs 
O which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs O originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cash4unow should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs O as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs O having made 
overpayments then Cash4unow should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Cash4unow should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans [and any principal 
Cash4unowve already written-off]. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid 
to Mrs O. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Cash4unow should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs O. Cash4unow shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal Cash4unow has already written-off.
E) Cash4unow should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Os credit file in 
relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow to deduct tax from this interest. Cash4unow 
should give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax Cash4unow has deducted, if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman