DRN-2762113
The complaint
Mr B complains Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) havent paid out on a claim under his 
roadside assistance policy when they should have.
Other parties were involved in this complaint, but as IPA are responsible for it, Ive just 
referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case in March 2021. In it, I set out whatd happened 
in the complaint, what I thought about that, and how I thought things should be put right.
In August 2020 Mr B said he had a slight accident, the car still ran, and then there was an 
electrical breakdown later. Mr B says the policy documents hes received say hes covered 
and he asked IPA to meet the claim. He was told the claim wasnt covered under the policy 
terms. But, after discussing it further with IPA discovered hed been told the wrong 
information. He submitted a claim for his costs which came to over £1,000  and asked for 
£500 compensation for the distress hed been caused.
IPA said its clear Mr B was misadvised initially when they turned down the claim. They said 
they wouldnt cover the full cost of what Mr B had claimed for. But they said theyd cover the 
below as most of it would have been covered under the policy terms:
£63.80  taxi fare
£72  storage fee
£18  call out fee
£150  recovery fee
£323.25  50% of the mileage charge (as theyd only cover assistance for one 
journey, and the full amount is for two journeys)
This came to £627.05  but Mr B didnt accept this saying it didnt come close to the total 
costs. As IPA wouldnt meet his full claim, he asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so and explained IPA had offered to reimburse Mr B for the 
costs hed incurred which would be covered under the terms of the policy. So, our 
investigator thought that was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He said IPA breached their contract with him by saying he wasnt covered 
when actually he was. Because of this, he said any decisions he then made, based on false 
information, shouldnt be used against him. He added all he wanted was for his car to be 
returned to his home address  and as IPA have given him wrong information, he shouldnt 
be held accountable for the costs that arose from this.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr B was covered under the policy terms for what happened, so I 
need to decide the fairest way to resolve the complaint.
Mr B has asked IPA to reimburse him for the following:
£63.80 taxi fare
£18 call out fee
£150 recovery / assistance fee
£72 storage fee
£72 redelivery fee
£646.50 mileage charge
Of which, IPA have paid for all items bar the redelivery fee of £72, and 50% of the mileage 
charge which would be £323.25.
IPA have said theyd only cover what would have been paid out under the terms of the 
policy. I do understand this argument, but I dont agree with it.
From the information I have Mr B only incurred all of the costs he did because IPA made a 
mistake. Ive not seen anything to suggest IPA dispute that and Id have concerns if they did 
at this point. So, although the terms and conditions of the policy dont require IPA to meet 
these elements under normal circumstances  Mr B hasnt incurred them through any fault of 
his own.
So, I think its fair and reasonable for all the costs to be refunded, plus 8% interest for being 
denied access to that money. Its unclear what, if anything, IPA have paid at this point  so if 
they have repaid Mr B some of the costs, then theyre only required to pay the remaining 
costs.
I also think compensation is appropriate. IPAs mistake has caused Mr B to have to make his 
own arrangements when really, they should have been there to help him. Theyve then not 
agreed to all the costs, despite letting Mr B down, when hes submitted his claim. Hes asked 
for £500 for this, but I think £200 is a fairer reflection of how hes been treated.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B replied to my decision to say he had nothing further to add.
IPA didnt reply by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B accepted my decision, and IPA didnt reply in time Ive seen no reason to change 
the outcome Ive reached as explained above.
  
Putting things right
I order IPA to:
Ensure Mr B has been repaid in full for the costs Ive listed out abovePay 8% interest* from the date of payment to the date of settlement for the above 
costs  if IPA did pay some costs earlier, and remaining costs now, then IPA can 
calculate this separately if theyd like to
Pay Mr B £200 compensation for the aggravation theyve caused him
*HM Revenue and Customs requires IPA to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. IPA must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks 
them for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and order Inter Partner Assistance SA to carry out the actions in the 
putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman