DRN-2777032
The complaint
Ms B says Oakam Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. She said she had significant financial 
problems which she feels Oakam should have found out about. Because of this she feels it 
shouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Oakam provided to Ms B. 
Loan 1 was for £300 and started on 1 November 2019. It was scheduled to be repaid 
over 26 weeks. Other than the first repayment, Ms B was due to repay £21.66 each 
week. 
Loan 2 was for £606.11 and started on 20 December 2019. Ms B used part of the 
loan proceeds to repay loan 1 and so I understand she actually only received 
£351.94. It was scheduled to be repaid over 26 weeks. Other than the first repayment 
Ms B was due to repay £40.92 each week. 
I understand Ms B hasnt been able to fully repay loan 2. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the checks Oakam had made were 
proportionate. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that she had some 
other loans outstanding at the time and shed had problems repaying her other debt.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive seen a record of the information Ms B provided Oakam when she completed her loan 
application. Ms B said she had a monthly income of between £1,400 and £1,500 and she 
had regular monthly outgoings of around £525. So, it was reasonable for Oakam to think that 
these loans were affordable for her.  
The crux of Ms Bs objection to the lending is that she feels Oakam should have made more 
in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen she was in financial difficulty. But given 
the amounts borrowed against her income, and that that it was early in the lending 
relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Oakam should have looked into her finances 
in more detail.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Oakam was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. The credit checks it did showed some adverse credit 
information but this wasnt current or significant. So, I think it was reasonable for Oakam to 
rely on the information it obtained.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Oakam did for these loans were 
proportionate. So, I think Oakams decisions to approve loans 1 and 2 were reasonable and 
Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint about them. 
Whilst Im not upholding Mis Bs complaint I would remind Oakam of its responsibility to treat 
her fairly in respect of any loan amounts she still might need to repay. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman