DRN-3583767
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund money she says was stolen from 
her account.
What happened
Ms S says she received a lump sum payment in 2010 of over £47,000 which was put into an 
account opened with Metro. Ms S says she only completed one large transaction on her 
Metro account which was to purchase a car. But, by mid 2019, all of the money in her Metro 
account had gone. Ms S says the rest of the funds were taken without her knowledge. 
Ms S raised a fraud claim with Metro and asked them to refund her for the lost funds.
Following an investigation Metro wrote to Ms S and told her:
The trust account was set up with Ms S as a signatory along with two other named 
signatories.
Under the Account Mandate, one of the signatories had no operating rights on the 
account. Any cheques needed to be signed by Ms S and a second signatory jointly.
Having obtained a copy of all 25 cheques issued on the account, all cheques had 
joint signatures in line with the Account Mandate. The signatures on the cheques 
matched the signatures provided on the account opening documentation.
In June 2021 they received a legal order from the police requesting information in 
relation to a cheque fraud of £4,000. Ms S had signed a disclosure form which 
allowed them to share the information the police requested.
Ms S wasnt happy with Metros response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained to Ms S that 
all of the cheques were signed by two signatories, herself and another person, in line with 
the Mandate completed when the account was opened. And that Ms S had signed the 
account opening documentation and the signatures on the cheques matched the signature 
provided when the account was opened. The polices response with regards to the outcome 
of their investigation was that it didnt suggest suspicious activity. All of the transactions on 
Ms Ss account except for one were cheques. The one transaction that wasnt a cheque was 
a faster payment which was made in a Metro store, and the funds were paid to Ms Ss 
account at another bank. 
Ms S disagreed with the investigators opinion as she is adamant that funds were stolen from 
her. So, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Ms S that I understand the distress she has experienced, and the 
strength of her belief that funds have been stolen from her account.
In considering her complaint, I have to look at Metros actions and whether I can fairly say 
theyve done anything wrong. I know that Ms S is going to be extremely upset and I dont 
wish to add to her distress. But, having considered everything very carefully, Im not going to 
recommend that Metro refund her. Ill explain why.
Ms Ss Metro account was opened in 2016. Metro have provided documents that were 
completed at the time the account was opened, which includes an internal checklist, an 
Account Opening Form and Mandate and a copy of the Declaration of Trust.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that its more likely than not Ms S signed and completed 
the documentation required to open the Metro account. All of the contact information is      
Ms Ss current contact information which we were given as part of her complaint against 
Metro. Metros internal checklist has been completed to indicate the Metro staff who opened 
the account obtained proof of identification from all of the signatories on the account, which 
included Ms S. The information provided to Metro, also matches the information that was 
provided in the Declaration of Trust  which supports that Ms S was involved in the opening 
of the account.
As part of the account opening, Metro completed a Mandate which set out who was 
authorised to the use the account and the extent of their authority. It had three signatories 
named, one of which was Ms S. It requires Ms S and one other signatory to sign or authorise 
all transactions on the account. As a result, the online banking registration for the account 
was restricted to view only. This meant no one could use online banking to move money in 
or out of the account, they could only see what the balance was and what transactions had 
gone through the account.
Since the account was opened in 2016 with an opening balance of just under £42,000, 25 
cheques have been written out of the account  which we have been given copies of. All of 
these cheques have been signed by Ms S and one of the other signatories on the account 
and in line with the Account Mandate. Ms Ss signature on the cheques, matches the 
signature on the account opening forms. Based on this, Im satisfied its more likely than not 
that Ms S has signed all of these cheques. These cheques combine to a total value of 
£41,600. This accounts for nearly all of the funds that were deposited into Ms Ss account 
when it was opened.
The last transaction completed on Ms Ss account was for £250 and was a faster payment 
made in a Metro store. Metro have told us that Ms S and another signatory completed this 
transaction in store. As the funds were paid into Ms Ss account at another bank, Im 
satisfied that Ms S received these funds.
This accounts for all the money Ms S paid into the account since it was opened, other than a 
balance remaining of approximately £5.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms S but I cant see that Metro has acted unreasonably in honouring 
the cheques that were presented on Ms Ss account or by allowing the faster payment to be 
made. And, as I think its most likely that Ms S authorised all of the transactions on her 
account, I cant fairly ask Metro to refund her.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman