DRN-3904440
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Grove Pension Solutions Limited unreasonably delayed in 
recommending a transfer from his occupational pension defined benefit (DB) scheme to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr P believes he has lost out as a result.
What happened
On 17 December 2021, following an enquiry from Mr P, the administrators of his former 
employer's DB pension scheme sent him information about his entitlement under the 
scheme. They also set out what he would need to do if he wanted to transfer the scheme 
benefits to another pension. That included seeking regulated advice from an appropriate 
pension adviser. It said Mr Ps pension had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£48,233; that sum was guaranteed until 16 March 2022.
On 7 February 2022 Mr P emailed Grove. He said he was 55 years old and had been unwell. 
He anticipated a shortened life expectancy. He doubted if he would live for another year. He 
said he had a small pension from his former employer, which would pay him a pension 
income of around £135 a month at age 65, which he felt was of no use to him. Alternatively 
he said the scheme Trustees had offered him an ill-health lump sum of £14,000 which he 
could access immediately. Mr P wanted to transfer the full CETV into a SIPP which he had 
already set up but the DB scheme administrators had told him he would need to get 
regulated advice before he could do that. He asked if Grove could help.
Grove replied the same day. It gave Mr P an outline of the process and said it would need 
him to complete an enquiry form, which it attached, before it could go ahead. It also said that 
if it proceeded to full advice Mr P would have to pay Groves full fee of £2,950 regardless of 
the outcome of the advice.
Mr P replied. He said he was happy to pay Groves fee and realised that Grove would have 
to follow a regulated process but believed that a lead in time of four to five weeks was more 
appropriate to his situation. In response Grove said that a pension transfer is a slow process 
and can take around three months to gather all the information and make a 
recommendation. It asked Mr P to think about whether he wanted to go ahead as its 
timescales were far longer than Mr Ps expectations. 
Mr P sent further correspondence to Grove. While acknowledging that it would be required to 
comply with relevant regulations he indicated that this was something that would not be 
complicated, as he wanted to proceed with the transfer. 
Grove sent Mr P more information about the advice process. Mr P replied and said hed 
been trying to complete the transfer for around three months. He repeated that he was 
aware Grove would have to comply with regulations and could make no shortcuts. He 
reiterated that a three month time-line to complete the advice process seemed excessive. 
On 28 February 2022 Mr P emailed Grove his letter of authority for it to proceed. Grove told 
him it would get back to him with a realistic time-scale for completion. Grove provided an 
update on 2 March 2022. It said it would be impossible to say how long the full process 
would take but that urgent cases would take about three weeks less than others. Mr P then 
confirmed he wished to go ahead. Grove wrote again to Mr P to say it had begun the 
process and would request information from the DB scheme. Grove again confirmed that the 
advice process would usually take around three months. During that exchange Mr P said he 
was currently abroad but would be back in the UK on 16 March 2022. On 9 March 2022, 
after the DB scheme administrators agreed to accept the emailed version of Mr Ps letter of 
authority - rather than a hard copy with a wet signature - the administrators agreed to extend 
the CETV guarantee period until 16 April 2022.
On 15 March 2022 Grove posted to Mr P its abridged advice report, this asked if he wanted 
to continue and if so to confirm he agreed to pay Groves fee of £2,950. 
On 22 March 2022 Mr P contacted Grove. He hadn't received the abridged advice report as 
he was unwell and hadn't travelled back to the UK from abroad. Grove emailed him the 
report and the information he needed to complete which he returned that day, including 
confirming he would pay Groves fee.
The following day, 23 March 2022, Grove chased the scheme administrators for outstanding 
information. It went on to request further details from Mr Ps SIPP, which it received on 
28 March 2022. The next day, 29 March 2022, the scheme administrators provided the 
outstanding information. They also reminded Grove that the CETV was only guaranteed until 
16 April 2022 and to secure that the scheme would require all the signed paperwork returned 
before then.
On 1 April 2022 Grove completed an appropriate pension transfer analysis report (APTA  
also known as a transfer value analysis report  TVAS). Grove's compliance team 
approved that on 6 April 2022. Grove then prepared its analysis which was approved by its 
pension transfer specialist on 19 April 2022 and checked by its compliance team the next 
day. Grove then discussed its proposed recommendations with Mr P. It then prepared its 
suitability report setting out its analysis and recommendations and sent that to Mr P on 
28 April 2022. By that time the CETV had expired and Mr P obtained a new CETV from the 
administrators and submitted it to Grove on 3 May 2022, the revised figure was £41,416. 
Grove arranged for that amount to be transferred to Mr Ps SIPP.
Mr P wrote a letter of complaint to Grove, dated 5 June 2022. Grove has no record of 
receiving that letter. Amongst other things Mr P said it took Grove three weeks to complete 
its analysis, while doing little to meet the CETV deadline. And by the time the analysis was 
complete, the deadline had passed and his appointed adviser wasnt available so he spoke 
with another adviser who was able to provide his analysis within a day. He added that as a 
result of Groves delays his CETV had fallen by £6,816.
In September and October 2022 Grove chased Mr P to settle its outstanding fee for advice. 
Mr P replied. He said he was surprised Grove was chasing him for fees when it hadn't 
replied to his complaint. Grove explained that it hadn't received his complaint letter and Mr P 
re-sent it. Amongst other things he said Grove employed delaying tactics moving his file from 
one member of staff to another. He believed this broke regulatory codes. He said his 
complaint could have been avoided if his advisor had contacted the DB scheme 
administrators and asked them to honour the original CETV. He asked Grove to compensate 
him for his losses including legal costs of £800.
On 7 November 2022, after further exchanges between Mr P and Grove, it sent him its final 
response letter to his complaint. It didnt uphold it. Amongst other things Grove said:
It had to ensure it followed the regulators rules.It had informed Mr P of its likely timescales from the outset. 
When Mr P had asked Grove if it could complete the process in less than three 
months it had replied that it might be able to do it three weeks quicker. In the end it 
took it around two months.
His CETV had reduced on recalculation and Grove could do nothing more about that. 
While it appointed an adviser to be Mr Ps point of contact, individuals aren't always 
available and, as the advice process moves on, staff from other departments become 
involved. 
It concluded by saying that from requesting information from the DB administrators 
on 9 March 2022 it only had five weeks before the CETV guarantee expired. 
It asked Mr P to pay the fee he had agreed to. 
Mr P and Grove continued to exchange correspondence. In December 2022 Mr P brought 
his complaint to this Service. One of our investigators looked into it. At the outset she 
confirmed that Mr P did not have to use our Service if he wished to pursue the matter 
through the courts but Mr P confirmed he wanted the investigator to continue her complaint 
assessment. Having reviewed the file she didnt think Grove needed to take any further 
action. She said she hadn't seen evidence of avoidable delay or errors by Grove. Mr P didnt 
agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint so it was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
After an initial file review I asked Grove for further evidence concerning its advice process, 
which it has now provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and responding to it Mr P and Grove have made a number of 
points. I've considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address or 
comment on each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
matters at the heart of Mr Ps complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold the complaint.
I can understand that from Mr Ps perspective this was a simple issue. Given the state of his 
health and what he appears to have considered a less than generous ill-health offer from his 
DB scheme Trustees, the matter of whether or not to transfer out of his DB scheme was an 
easy one which didnt need any in-depth analysis. It only needed a suitably qualified adviser 
to confirm they had provided regulated advice and from there the scheme administrators 
could have transferred the CETV into his SIPP.In contrast, Grove is aware that the area of DB pension transfers is fairly heavily regulated. 
And the regulator says the starting position for advising firms like Grove is that a transfer 
from a DB scheme is unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G). 
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are often considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) from other pension products available on the open market. And 
transferring from a DB scheme is a one-off event; once transferred theres no going back - 
the benefits are lost forever. So, when giving DB pension transfer advice Groves role isn't to 
simply do what Mr P wanted it to do, no matter how convinced he was that a transfer was 
suitable for him. Instead Grove was required to understand his wants and needs, not just his 
wishes and desires. It was also required to analyse, test and challenge his motives for 
seeking a transfer. And only once it was convinced, on contemporaneous evidence, that a 
transfer was in Mr Ps best interests could it make a positive recommendation to transfer. 
Further, there are typically a number of stages involved in the DB transfer process. As well 
as gathering information from Mr P, Grove had to request evidence from the scheme 
administrators, obtain an APTA  which is a regulatory requirement  and then provide an 
initial report of its analysis by whats known as abridged advice. After providing that abridged 
advice and Mr P agreeing to move to full advice  and agreeing to pay Groves fee  could it 
provide a final analysis. That included an assessment of the underlying investments where 
the DB funds were to be transferred. Thats also a mandatory part of the process. So, the 
fact that Mr P was happy with his SIPP as an investment vehicle didnt mean that Grove 
could just accept his views on that. 
Having taken those steps Grove could make a personal recommendation which it needed to 
set out in writing before taking Mr Ps instruction about what he wanted to do. And most of 
these stages would require the involvement of Groves compliance team to ensure that it 
wasnt falling foul of the regulators rules. So, while it might have seemed to Mr P that this 
was a fairly straightforward process with an obvious outcome, that wouldnt have been 
Groves approach. Each of these stages takes thought, careful analysis and awareness of 
the regulatory landscape. So all these things take time. And I'm satisfied that Groves desire 
to get things right was reasonable in the circumstances and not, as Mr P believes, a delaying 
tactic. 
I've noted Mr Ps point that, from 28 March 2022 onwards, Grove had all the information it 
needed and  he believes  that it would have been possible for Grove to complete its 
advice before the CETV guarantee expired on 16 April 2022. But while that might have been 
possible, I dont think Grove caused any unreasonable delays here. 
Grove received the last piece of evidence from other sources on 29 March 2022. The expiry 
date of 16 April 2022 was a Saturday and the day before (15 April 2022) was an Easter Bank 
Holiday. So, in reality Grove would have needed to carry out all the required analysis, draft 
its suitability report and receive all the required  signed  paperwork and have passed it to 
the DB scheme administrators all within a period of little over two weeks. So, even if Grove 
pulled out all the stops and focussed on Mr Ps case alone, it seems unlikely that it could 
have met the 16 April 2022 deadline. 
Further, while it appears that Grove was well aware that it was looking at Mr Ps transfer on 
an urgent basis, he wasnt its only customer. And its likely that it had other looming 
deadlines that it needed to meet for other customers, no doubt, many of whom thought their 
case was equally as important as Mr P did. And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
have expected Grove to focus a disproportionate amount of its energies on concluding Mr Ps analysis and recommendations against the backdrop of an extremely difficult and 
most likely unachievable timeframe.
The above is particularly the case given that, from the outset, Grove made it clear to Mr P 
that its process would most likely take around three months, although it did say it should be 
able to shave three weeks off that. If Mr P wasnt happy with that timeline he didnt have to 
accept it and didnt have to instruct Grove. So he could have tried to find another adviser that 
would guarantee they could complete the work in a much shorter timeframe if he wished. 
Although I suspect that might have been a fruitless search. I say that because pensions 
transfer advice is a specialist area. Advisers have to have specific qualifications which aren't 
commonly held by all financial advisers. And those that do hold the relevant qualifications 
are aware of the regulatory hurdles that they need to overcome and the likely timescales 
involved in achieving that. So its possible that Mr P would have struggled to find an adviser 
who would have committed to meeting the CETV guarantee date.
But, as I've said above, Mr P chose to proceed with Groves advice process even though it 
had gone some way to managing his expectations that it was unlikely to be able to complete 
its work within the timescales Mr P hoped for. But that was his choice. And, I've seen no 
evidence, beyond Mr Ps comments, that Grove was responsible for any unreasonable 
delays that led to the CETV guarantee deadline being missed.
Mr P said Grove should have intervened with the DB administrators to ask them to honour 
the original CETV sum. But I dont think it would be fair to expect Grove to take that action. 
Especially when Grove commented that Mr P had tried to secure the sum himself, without 
success. I've also seen that the administrators had reminded Grove on 29 March 2022 of the 
deadline and what it would require in order to secure the CETV sum. But Grove wasnt in a 
position to return the required papers until May 2022. So the deadline had long since 
passed. But, as I've already said, I dont think that was because of any unreasonable delays 
by Grove.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman