DRN-2025363
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the delays in the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) handling of their 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim. They say the delays have left them unable to achieve 
a satisfactory resolution and that this amounts to a breach of contract.
Where I refer to Lloyds, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mr B.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2018 Mr B was in dispute with a developer. The dispute was in relation to building work 
and amongst the issues in dispute were damage to a party wall and an ongoing trespass.
Mr B approached Lloyds to make a claim under the LEI section of his policy. He highlighted 
the urgency of the matter and that his preference would be to apply for an injunction to stop 
any further building work in relation to the party wall. The claim was initially declined, as 
Lloyds said there hadnt yet been an insured event. But when Mr B provided further 
evidence, it was provisionally accepted, and the policy excess was paid. 
The matter was passed to a panel solicitor T to assess the prospects of success  which 
was a requirement for cover under the policy. The claim was then accepted and progressed 
until 2019 when a settlement was reached.
Mr B says Lloyds failed to meet their legal obligations under the policy. He feels further 
compensation from Lloyds is appropriate. 
Lloyds considered the complaint but didnt think they needed to do more and the matter was 
referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt think it should be upheld. In summary 
she said there werent significant delays in Lloyds accepting the claim. She also didnt think 
Lloyds had done anything to negatively influence the outcome of the legal action. Mr B 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for very similar reasons. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, so Ill explain why. Our investigator has already shared her reasons 
with both parties, so I wont repeat it all in detail here. Ill focus instead on the reasons for my 
decision. 
Firstly, the Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts and is a dispute 
resolution service. So, I wont be making a finding as to whether or not Lloyds actions 
amount to a breach of contract  this is something a court can decide. We look at what we 
believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to resolve a complaint.
Ive looked at the timescales in relation to the early stages of Mr Bs claim. Mr B first made 
his claim on 20 June 2018 and it took until 10 July 2018 for the claim to be accepted. Within 
this time period Lloyds:
initially declined the claim, then looked again and provisionally accepted when Mr B 
provided further evidence;
took and awaited clearance of the policy excess payment;
passed the matter to T and awaited their assessment of the prospects of success.
I dont believe that this is an unreasonable timeframe  given all that happened. Having read 
Mr Bs submissions dated 20 June 2018, I dont think Lloyds decision (based on the 
information provided) that no insured event had taken place, was unreasonable. It (and the 
supporting documents) didnt make it apparent that damage or trespass had already taken 
place. And Lloyds quickly reversed that decision when provided with further evidence. I also 
think it was fair for Lloyds to ensure the funds in relation to the excess payment had cleared, 
before progressing the claim. 
When Mr B highlighted the urgency of his claim, Lloyds initially pointed out (on 5 July 2018) 
that if Mr B felt he needed to take action to protect his legal position, he should do so. They 
also said that in the event of the claim being accepted (as it was shortly afterwards) they 
would consider reasonable costs of actions hed taken if the solicitor agreed they were 
necessary. I think this is fair.
Even if I were to accept that Lloyds ought to have accepted the claim sooner than they did, 
Im not persuaded this would have made a difference to the outcome of the legal action. At 
the time, Mr B wanted to pursue an injunction against the developer to stop work on the 
party wall. He feels that if the claim had been accepted sooner, this would have been an 
option. But once a solicitor from T was assigned, they didnt feel that was the best course of 
action. Lloyds themselves arent legal experts and the day to day management of the legal 
action isnt something they are responsible for. If Mr B is unhappy with how T progressed his 
legal action, this is something he should take up with them. 
In any case, later in the claim a barristers opinion was sought and this concluded that at 
some time between 20 and 25 June 2018, the developer had decided not to build astride the 
party wall. And that there was therefore no basis upon which it would have been possible to 
have asked a court to stop the developer building on their own land. I think this is further 
evidence that even if the claim had been handled exceptionally quickly, it was unlikely that 
an injunction could have been obtained.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Lloyds responded to the claim in an unreasonable timeframe. 
At best, I think the claim could only have got to a solicitor a few days sooner. But crucially, 
even if I were to find that there were unreasonable or avoidable delays (which I dont) then I 
dont think this would have made a difference to the outcome of the legal action. The solicitor 
from T didnt agree that a court injunction was the best way to progress the legal case, and 
this isnt a decision that Lloyds are responsible for. 
Id like to remind Mr and Mrs B that they are under no obligation to accept my decision. And 
if they dont, it wont be legally binding. So should they wish to continue their dispute with 
Lloyds through other avenues, such as the courts, they will be free to do so. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman