DRN-2337275
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Metro Bank PLC will not refund all of the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.   
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I have summarised 
the key events here.
Mrs S advertised her car for sale on an online classified advertisement website. 
On 4 August 2019 Mrs S received an enquiry asking if the car was still available. Mrs S 
thought she was interacting with someone that was interested in buying her car. 
Unfortunately, she was in contact with a fraudster. 
The fraudster told Mrs S that he wanted to buy the car as a gift for his daughter but was 
unable to test drive it or collect it from her personally due to his disability. He said he would 
arrange for the car to be picked up by a recovery company. He explained he did not have 
online banking, but would pay for the car through a digital payment service, which Ill call 
service P. Mrs S agreed a sale price of £2,000 and gave the fraudster the email address she 
uses on service P.
The fraudster told Mrs S hed sent the money for the car to her service P account but had 
encountered a problem with the recovery company. He explained he needed to pay them to 
schedule the cars collection but was unable to get to the bank to make the payment. He 
said hed paid an extra £570 to Mrs S and asked her to send it on to the recovery company 
for him. He provided the bank details to Mrs S.
Mrs S explained she received an email from service P that said a payment of £2,570 had 
been sent to her service P account. She said it looked like it had been sent from a genuine 
service P email address. Mrs S did not check her service P account and set up a new payee 
and made a payment of £570 from her Metro account to whom she believed to be the 
recovery company. 
The fraudster contacted Mrs S again and explained he needed to add the tax and insurance 
charges applied by the recovery company. He told Mrs S hed made a further payment to her 
service P account and asked her to send it to the recovery company for him. Mrs S then 
received an email from whom she thought was service P. It said she had received an 
additional payment of £423 from the buyer. The email provided new account details (name 
and sort code and account number) for the recovery company, even though the money was 
going to the same recovery company. It said the total sum of £2,993 would not be posted to 
her account until she had completed the transaction. Mrs S set up a new payee and made 
the payment of £423 from her Metro account. 
Mrs S then received another email which she thought was from service P. It talked about an 
accreditation delay with the funds entering her account. It said the buyers account was a 
Premier Verified account and that the minimum that could be transferred out of it was 
£3,700. The message said that the service P authority has decided to extract the remaining 
£707.00 GBP from the buyers account and we have added it up to your account. It asked 
Mrs S to transfer the £707 back to them. Mrs S made a payment of £707 from her Metro 
account to new account details given in the email. 
After making the payment, Mrs S received another email that she thought was from service 
P. It said that there was a problem with the transaction and the accounts department had 
sent her £4,700 when it was supposed to send £3,700. It asked her to send the £1,000 back 
to the service P account. Mrs S made a payment of £1,000 from her Metro account. 
After making this payment, Mrs S received a further email purporting to be from service P. 
It said that she had won a luxury car and that she needed to pay a final processing fee to 
receive it. Mrs S became suspicious. She contacted the genuine service P and asked why 
funds had not been released to her. Service P told Mrs S it had no record of any of the 
payments and urged her to contact her bank straight away.
Metro tried to recover the funds Mrs S had sent, but none remained. 
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for Metro to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care 
under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
The customer has been grossly negligent
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
When Metro considered the matter, it said it did not provide Mrs S with good enough 
warnings to comply with its obligations to provide effective warnings under the CRM Code. 
But it didnt think Mrs S had taken enough care when making the payments so thought she 
should bear some responsibility for the loss too. It pointed out Mrs S did not log into her 
service P account to check whether she had received any money and she did not question 
being asked to make payments greater than the value of the car. It thought the emails she 
was sent from service P were suspicious. As Metro ultimately did not think Mrs S had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were legitimate, under the provisions of the 
CRM Code it decided to refund 50% of the loss. 
Mrs S didnt agree that position was fair and raised a complaint. As Metro did not change its 
stance, she asked this service to look into things.Our investigator reviewed the complaint and thought Metro should have fully refunded Mrs S 
under the CRM Code. But when I reviewed the matter, I was minded to think differently. 
I contacted both parties and set out my position. 
My initial thoughts 
I explained there was no dispute that Mrs S had been tricked. I noted what shed told us 
about never having sold a car before. I accepted she didnt know exactly what to expect and 
that she had no reason to think that what the fraudster had told her about his personal 
situation was anything but genuine. 
But I was not persuaded, in all the circumstances, that Mrs S had met her requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code for all of the payments she made. 
I thought Mrs S had a reasonable basis for believing the first payment that she made was 
genuine. I didnt think the situation as it was at that point sounded overtly odd. I noted the 
email Mrs S was sent appeared in her inbox addressed in the same way that a genuine 
email from service P would be and that it is not particularly unusual for people to buy 
cars online sight unseen. But I thought the situation evolved from the second payment 
onwards. I thought Mrs S ought to have questioned what was happening more carefully and 
whether the buyer was legitimate. I noted the tone and wording of the emails purporting to 
be from service P were less professional and business like as the scam went on. I thought 
the situation became less plausible as time went on. 
I accepted that Metro didnt provide Mrs S with effective warnings, but I also felt Metro had 
established Mrs S made payments two, three and four without a reasonable basis for 
believing that the unfolding situation was genuine and legitimate. I thought Metro could 
choose not to refund Mrs S in full for payments two, three and four, but it should have 
refunded her in full for the first payment she made. 
I also thought about whether it was reasonable to expect Metro to have had a closer look at 
the circumstances around the payments, as a bank should be on the lookout for unusual or 
out of character transactions. But I didnt think the payments Mrs S made would have stood 
out enough for Metro to have been concerned that she might have been at risk of financial 
harm at the time she made them. I didnt think Metro had done anything wrong by following 
the instructions Mrs S gave and sending the money. 
Metro agreed it would be willing to refund the remaining £285 from payment one and pay 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date that it turned down Mrs Ss claim under the 
CRM Code. 
Mrs S said she understood and accepted the revised position.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my initial thoughts, which both parties have 
already indicated they would accept to be a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
In reaching this position, I am satisfied that: 
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, Metro does not have to refund the full £2,700 
Mrs S lost. Metro has already refunded half of the loss Mrs S suffered. It accepts it should have 
given Mrs S effective warnings under the CRM Code and it has already 
acknowledged that it did not do so  thereby reimbursing Mrs S with 50% of what 
she lost. 
Im persuaded one of the other listed exceptions to reimbursement under the 
provisions of the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of this case. Taking into 
account all of the circumstances of this case. Taking into account all of the 
circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the customer and the 
complexity of the scam, I think Mrs S failed to meet the requisite level of care for the 
second, third and fourth payments she made.
I think Mrs S had a reasonable basis for belief that the person and business with 
whom she transacted was legitimate when she made the first payment. The reason 
the fraudster gave for the payment Mrs S needed to make wasnt implausible and at 
this stage she thought she was making a payment in connection with the sale of her 
car. I dont think she ought to have questioned the situation more or checked the 
funds had been received in her service P account at this stage. I think, and Metro 
accepts, Metro should refund this payment in full. 
As the scam developed, I think Mrs S should have questioned things more, as the 
situation became increasingly unusual. Ive considered what Mrs S was being told 
and presented with at the time. Having done so, I think Mrs S ought to have 
questioned the circumstances surrounding payments two, three and four, and made 
additional checks, in order to find out if the situation was legitimate. This is because 
the reasons for requiring her to make further payments became less believable and 
ought reasonably to have caused growing concern. 
When Mrs S is asked to make the second payment of £423 she is told that it is for tax 
and insurance charges also due to the recovery company. She receives an email 
purporting to be from service P explaining that the funds of £2,570 were about to be 
credited into her service P account but could not be as the buyer had sent an 
additional £423. The email contains new account details for Mrs S to make payment 
to  even though Mrs S was told by the fraudster the funds were for the same 
recovery company that shed previously paid- and suggests that she wont receive 
any payment until she completes the transaction. Mrs S set up a new payee to make 
the payment but did not question why she was making the payment to different 
account details than she had previously paid, even thought it was the same recovery 
company. And she didnt question or check her service P account to understand the 
discrepancy between previously having being told that her account had been 
credited with £2,570 and now being told something different. Metro also said Mrs S 
did not question the legitimacy of the beneficiary and it thinks she ought to have 
done. For the reasons Ive explained, I think Mrs S ought to have had concerns 
about the legitimacy of the transaction she was making and ought reasonably to 
have carried out some additional checks before proceeding with the payment. 
When Mrs S made the third payment of £707, she did so on the premise of trying to 
assist service P with an accreditation delay. The email that she receives purporting 
to be from service P is confusing and doesnt read like what a professional 
organisation would most likely send. The email explains that the money cant be paid 
into Mrs Ss account for some minor reasons and that there has been much 
investigation on the cause of this trauma. It explains the cause of the problem to be 
your buyers type of accounts can only send out a minimum amount of £3,700.00 
GBP per transaction and your total funds with us is just £2,993.00 GBP which is 
below your buyers pay out amount per transaction. Some of the text appears to have been copied and pasted as the font sizes differ. Metro said it was not 
reasonable for Mrs S to think the situation she was in was plausible. 
When Mrs S made the fourth payment of £1,000, she thought she was returning an 
overpayment made to her by service P in error. But Metro did not agree it was 
reasonable for Mrs S to think this was the situation. It pointed out that Mrs S was, by 
this point, making payments greater than the value of the car. It felt Mrs S should 
have been suspicious of the situation and suggests she ought to have contacted the 
genuine service P to discuss further. Metro raised further concerns about the look 
and feel of the emails purporting to be from service P. 
I think Metro has done enough to establish it could choose not to fully reimburse 
Mrs S for payments two, three and four because she made them without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payments were legitimate. 
Im mindful that when Mrs S made these payments, Metro should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. But I dont think the payments she 
made would have stood out enough for me to fairly say that Metro ought to have 
been concerned that Mrs S was at risk of financial harm.
I do sympathise with Mrs S as she has lost money to what is a cruel and nasty scam, 
and I can understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting 
for her. But for the reasons Ive explained, in the circumstances of this case Im 
unable to conclude Metro should take full responsibility for her loss.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC. 
To put things right, Metro should now:
pay Mrs S the remaining 50% of the money she lost in payment one - £285;
pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date Metro 
declined Mrs Ss claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement - less
any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman