DRN-3319882
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited settled a claim 
she made under her car insurance policy with it. 
All reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs S made a claim to her insurer, Advantage following an accident where her 
car was damaged. 
Advantage decided to settle Mrs Ss claim as a total loss in line with the policy terms. Mrs S 
was paying for her car under a finance agreement. 
Mrs S complained to Advantage. She said it failed to provide her with a courtesy car when 
she was entitled to one. Mrs S said she paid £140 for a hire car. She was unhappy that 
Advantage told her she would receive a balance of the settlement sum which wasnt correct. 
Mrs S was unhappy that an excess payment of £540 had been deducted from the total loss 
settlement Advantage paid to the finance company. 
Advantage upheld Mrs Ss complaint in part. It said the hire car company advised it had tried 
to contact Mrs S but without success to arrange a replacement vehicle. Advantage said it 
would pay Mrs S £70 for seven days loss of use. 
Advantage said that while it was correct for the excess to be deducted from the final 
settlement, it had incorrectly deducted £540  the correct excess was £490. So Advantage 
provided a refund to Mrs S of £50. 
It accepted that Mrs S had made many calls chasing for updates on her claim. And 
Advantage accepted it had provided incorrect information as to how it would settle the claim 
which would have caused upset. For its poor service Advantage paid Mrs S £70 
compensation. So in total Advantage paid Mrs S £190. 
Mrs S asked us to look at her complaint. She wanted Advantage to refund the excess 
payment of £490 as she said she owed this to the finance company. She wanted Advantage 
to pay a further £70 for the remaining car hire costs shed paid. 
Our Investigator found that Advantage had deducted a lower excess than the policy said it 
would because the correct excess was £640. This was the correct excess to deduct for the 
named driver involved in the incident.
The Investigator found that Advantage had dealt with Mrs Ss complaint reasonably in the 
payments it made for loss of use and compensation for its poor service and delay. And he 
found that Advantage had used a fair valuation when deciding a total loss settlement  and 
had paid the balance to the finance company as set out under the terms of the policy. 
So he didnt recommend Advantage should do any more. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She hasnt provided any further comments but wants an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy with Advantage sets out the terms under which it will pay a market value claim 
where her car is under lease or contract hire. Advantage says:
If your Car is on lease or contract hire, your Insurer will pay the lease or contract hire 
company either the Market Value of the Car, or the amount required to settle the 
contract, whichever is less. A section on page four says You wont be eligible for a 
courtesy car if your Car is stolen or considered to be a Total Loss/write-off and The 
service is only available while your Car is being repaired.
Mrs S says there should be a call recording where she was incorrectly advised of how it 
would settle her claim. The Investigator asked Advantage for a recording and it confirmed 
the information had been sent to Mrs S by email. I can see that Advantage sent Mrs S an 
email on 6 July 2021 setting out a final balance settlement figure. But on 7 July 2021 it sent 
a follow up email to Mrs S and apologised. It said the previous email contained errors 
regarding the settlement and it intended to send an email confirming the correct amounts. 
So even in the absence of a call recording, theres no dispute that Advantage made an error 
here. However, I think the compensation it paid of £70 for its poor service in quoting the 
wrong settlement sum was reasonable as I think it corrected its error promptly.
Having looked at a copy of Mrs Ss car hire agreement, Im satisfied that Advantage has paid 
a fair settlement in line with the policy terms. 
The difference in the amount Mrs S owes under the car hire finance agreement is (with £10 
difference) the same as the excess Advantage deducted from the settlement. But Advantage 
is entitled to deduct the excess as this is correctly due as the first payment under a claim. 
And as the Investigator explained, having checked who the driver was when the incident 
occurred, it seems Advantage deducted a lower excess than the policy says was due. The 
correct excess payable by Mrs S for this claim was £640. So I think Advantages decision to 
refund £50 of the £540 excess it deducted was very reasonable. 
I understand Mrs S arranged for a replacement car and paid £140 for this. But Advantages 
policy says it will provide a courtesy car for the duration of repairs. It clearly says it will not 
provide a courtesy car in the event of a total loss claim. However, Advantage said it could 
have provided a courtesy car to Mrs S for seven days from 20 to 27 June 2021. So I think 
Advantages decision to pay £70 toward Mrs Ss hire car costs in recognition of this was 
reasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S. But overall I think Advantage has done enough to put things 
right so Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman