DRN-1685795
 
The complaint
Mr S has raised a number of complaints regarding the service he received from Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays), including issues of an operational nature.  
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr S and Barclays, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. If Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather, I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. Mr S agreed with the investigator that his complaints were that;
Barclays used LGBT colours in its logo without asking him
a member of staff had addressed him by his first name, rather than as Mr S
there was no pen lid on the pen given to him
he didn't like the odour in the branch
the bank uses plastic for its debit cards which is not environmentally friendly
it took two weeks for a new debit card to be received
Barclays closed his account
Barclays looked into the complaints and upheld the part relating to the delay in providing Mr 
S with a replacement card. They apologised for the delay and paid £225 into his account by 
way of compensation. With regard to the rest of his complaint issues they advised Mr S that 
his comments had been noted and where appropriate fed back to the relevant personnel, but 
they did not accept they had done anything wrong or acted unfairly. 
Mr S was unhappy with Barclays final response and so brought his complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think Barclays had 
acted unfairly towards Mr S. As Mr S didnt agree with that he asked that the complaint be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they 
change their processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We cant give businesses direction on policy or procedure. We can only say 
whether it is a policy or procedure which is being applied fairly and reasonably to all their 
customers. The FCA takes a principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets 
businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way they deal with 
customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under the Dispute 
Rules in the FCA Handbook. What we recommend however can influence how businesses 
review their policies.I shall begin with the issue of the debit cards. Barclays accepted that Mr S had asked for the 
debit card replacement, albeit they didnt have any record of this, and to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience to him by the delay, they paid £225 into his account. Mr S feels this is not 
enough, and so Ive given this further thought as to whether it is sufficient. 
In some complaints, the problems a customer encounters dont just affect them financially, 
and in part that is the case here. Those problems can lead to the customer being caused 
some trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what it could 
do to put matters right. But the trouble and upset caused needs to be balanced and 
measured against  the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other people, businesses 
and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times.
Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for distress and inconvenience in 
similar cases, and putting all of this into the balance I think what Barclays paid is fair and 
reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right.
Turning to the other parts of Mr Ss complaint I dont have any powers to tell Barclays how 
they should design or manufacture any of their material, or whether they should seek 
approval from their customers for any of it. So I can't tell them what its cards should be made 
of or whether its pens should have lids. 
I sympathise with Mr S that a staff member called him by his first name, and I can 
understand why he doesnt like it. Many people dont, but equally, many do. And I am afraid 
it is probably now becoming more common practice. But as Mr S made his displeasure 
known to Barclays I would only expect them to try to change the way they address him going 
forwards. So, I cant say they have done anything wrong initially because Barclays didnt 
know they werent supposed to address him like that.
In relation to the odour Mr S detected when he visited the branch I have no evidence that 
this was even an issue caused by the branch itself. As our investigator pointed out there 
could have been other causes, and so I am unable to say that Barclays has done anything 
wrong here either. I am however pleased to see that Barclays have taken all of Mr Ss 
comments seriously as they have referred his issues to various members of their staff by 
way of feedback.
On the issue of the account closure, it is of course open to any bank to close a customers 
account at any time. Barclays can decide who it wants to deal with as a customer. And if it 
decides to close a customers account, it doesnt have to give a reason. All it has to do 
is follow the process it has set out in the accounts terms and conditions, which in this case it 
did. I can see it gave him 2 months notice in writing on the 13 September. So I cant say 
Barclays acted unfairly here either.
So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Barclays has already paid £225 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So 
my final decision is that I dont require Barclays to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman