DRN-4037982
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L applied for a credit card with Lloyds in October 2019. Lloyds approved the application 
and gave Mr L a credit card with a credit limit of £5000.
Mr L complained that the lending was irresponsible. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
application.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although he thought Lloyds 
shouldve caried out further checks before approving the credit card, the information which 
wouldve been obtained by the further checks showed that the lending was affordable.
Mr L disagreed so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry [practice, are set out on our website.
Lloyds needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this 
means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could afford to 
repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount and the customer income and expenditure.
Less detailed affordability checks can be proportionate where a customers financial position 
is stable and where the borrowing is insignificant given the consumers financial 
circumstances. In this case, Lloyds was providing a large loan to Mr L in September 2019 
and the credit card had a significant credit limit. So I think it wouldve been proportionate 
form Lloyds to have carried  out further checks to ensure the lending was affordable. Based 
on what Ive seen, I dont think the checks Lloyds carried out were detailed enough.
Ive gone on to look at what Lloyds might have discovered had proportionate checks been 
carried out.
Ive reviewed Mr Ls credit report from the time of the credit card application. Based on what 
Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest that Mr L wasnt repaying his existing borrowing 
sustainably. 
Ive also looked at Mr Ls bank statements to assess his income and essential expenditure. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr L had enough  disposable income at the end of every month to 
make repayments to the credit card. I havent seen any information to suggest that Mr L was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the borrowing. In the circumstances, Im unable to 
say that Lloyds lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman