DRN-3841088
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Enterprise Fund Limited trading as Business Solutions Finance 
(EFL) caused an adverse record on his credit file in August 2022.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that Mr J missed a repayment on his loan with EFL in July 2022 due to an 
error by Mr Js Bank. Hence, in my view EFL didnt do anything wrong when the missed 
payment was recorded on Mr Js credit file.
Once Mr J had notified EFL of the error by his bank, Mr J asked EFL to take the payment at 
the end of July. But EFL explained that its system was not able to do that, and a manual 
payment was required. So, Mr J agreed instead to a double payment being taken the 
following month.
EFL said it would remove the adverse marker on his credit file once the double payment was 
made. In my view this was a reasonable response by EFL.
Mr J then asked for the double payment not to be taken. Looking at the timing of his request, 
I think its possible as explained by our investigator that he was too late to stop the process 
in place in EFL to take the payment. But even if EFL failed to act on Mr Js instructions, I 
would only expect it to apologise and reverse the payment (as it later did).  It was also open 
to Mr J to instruct his bank not to make any payments if this was important to him. 
But if EFL had not taken the payment, Mr J would have been in arrears and EFL would have 
needed again to show on his credit file that he was in default.
As it was, EFL, having taken the double payment, did then remove the adverse marker on 
Mr Js credit file.
However, Mr J intervened to reverse the double payment, which meant that EFL were again 
owed money. So EFL had to reflect this once more on Mr Js credit record as it is required to 
do.
I note that Mr J raised a complaint during this process about what was happening with his 
credit file. However, in my view EFL communicated clearly about what they were doing and 
explained to Mr J the impact of his interventions.
So, overall, in my view, I dont think EFL did anything wrong in this matter, so I cant uphold 
Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman