DRN-1791427
 
complaint
Miss S says Morses Club PLC, trading as Morses Club, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six loans Morses Club provided to Miss S between November 2015 
and June 2017. Miss Ss borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Weekly 
Instalment
1 04/11/2015 10/03/2016 20 (weekly) £200.00 £15.00
2 10/03/2016 04/10/2016 33 (weekly) £300.00 £15.00
3 05/05/2016 16/12/2016 33 (weekly) £100.00 £20.00
4 04/10/2016 08/11/2016 33 (weekly) £400.00 £25.00
5 16/03/2017 outstanding 33 (weekly) £500.00 £25.00
6 27/06/2017 10/05/2019 33 (weekly) £150.00 £32.50
* The highest weekly instalments for each loan takes into consideration any other 
outstanding loans repayments Miss S had to make to Morses Club at the time.
Morses Club considered Miss Ss complaint and decided to uphold her complaint about 
loan 4 only. So as this loan as has already been upheld, I havent considered this further in 
my decision. 
Our adjudicator considered Miss Ss complaint and felt that loans 1-3, 5 and 6 shouldnt 
have been given, and so upheld Miss Ss complaint. Morses Club disagreed on the basis 
that it felt the loans were affordable for Miss S, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses Club should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses Club was required to establish
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Ive looked at the information collected, and the affordability assessments Morses 
Club carried out when Miss S applied for loans 1, 2, 3 and 5. The repayment for these 
loans all represented a significant proportion of Miss Ss income. Morses Club say that for all 
her loans she was never required to put more than 25% of her weekly income towards her 
combined repayments. Ive considered this, and I agree that the repayments represented 
less than 25% of her weekly income, however, I still consider the repayments for loans 1, 2, 
3 and 5 to be relatively high and Ive also taken into account length of term Miss S was 
required to continue making these repayments. Ive also considered that although Miss S did 
not have any housing costs, there are likely to have been other weekly and monthly costs 
which were not recorded at the time the loans were applied for. So, I think these loans were 
unaffordable for Miss S and unsustainable for the duration of the loan agreements.  
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Miss S wouldnt have been able to 
meet their existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely 
Miss S wouldve been able to sustainably meet their weekly repayments for these loans  or 
any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Morse Clubs lending history with Miss S, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Morses Club should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, it should have realised that itshouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ss case, I think that this point was reached by
loan 6. I say this because I think at this point Morses Club ought to have realised Miss S was 
not managing to repay her loans sustainably. Miss S had already taken out five loans within 
14 months and was applying for loan 6 while loan 5 was still outstanding. So Morses Club 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss S was having to borrow
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and
that Miss Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ive thought about what Morses Club has said and Ive also considered Miss Ss weekly 
income and expenditure at the point of taking out each loan. While it may appear on the 
outset that Miss S wouldve been able to afford the repayments at each stage of borrowing, 
the number of loans taken and the period it was taken suggests that Miss S had developed a 
reliance on this type of credit. And looking at Miss Ss lending pattern by loan 6, I think 
Morses Club ought to have reasonably realised that further lending was unsustainable, and 
potentially harmful.
I think that Miss S lost out because Morses Club continued to provide borrowing which was 
likely to have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans. 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 and Morses Club should 
put things right as set out below.
putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss S paid on loans 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1, 2, 3 and 5 from Miss Ss credit file;
all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Miss Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses 
Club must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above I am upholding Miss Ss complaint. Morses Club Limited 
should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman