DRN-4131258
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr F have complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited has unfairly 
declined a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F and Mr Fs home insurance policy is held jointly and is underwritten by Advantage. 
This claim and complaint relate to jewellery belonging to Mrs F, and it is her who has 
corresponded with Advantage and our service throughout. So, Ill refer only to Mrs F for the 
remainder of this decision. 
The crux of the complaint is that Advantage has declined to cover Mrs Fs claim for theft of 
several rings from her home, because there isnt sufficient evidence that a theft took place. 
Advantage acknowledged that it took slightly longer than it should have to reach a claim 
decision and so has offered £30 compensation.
Mrs F is unhappy because she was initially told the claim would be covered before it was 
then passed to the underwriters and declined. She says Advantage should have checked 
this before telling her the claim was covered. In the circumstances, she says a fair outcome 
would be for Advantage to settle her claim. 
Our investigator didnt think Advantage had acted unfairly, and so didnt think Mrs Fs 
complaint should be upheld. She said the claim decision was fair, and the compensation was 
reasonable given the short timescales involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs Fs policy covers her for the theft of contents from her home. But, from what Ive seen, 
theres nothing to suggest that a theft was any more likely than the rings being lost within the 
home (which is specifically excluded from cover). I say this because nobody witnessed an 
intruder, there was no evidence of a break in, and the police investigation was closed quickly 
due to a lack of evidence or any lines of enquiry. Based on this, I dont consider it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Advantage to decline the claim under the theft peril, as there was no 
persuasive evidence that a theft had occurred.
Mrs F also doesnt have the optional personal possessions cover. This means that she isnt 
covered for personal possessions which are lost within, or outside of, the home. Based on 
this, I consider that Advantages decision not to cover the claim at all, is in line with the policy 
terms and is fair and reasonable.
Mrs F was told that her claim was being referred to Advantages contractor for settlement on 
22 November 2022. But later the same day, she was emailed saying the claim had been 
referred to the underwriters. Mrs F says the email wasnt clear that the claim acceptance had 
been rescinded and so she then spent a week chasing for updates on the claim settlement 
before being told her claim had been declined on 30 November 2022.
I accept the email Advantage sent to Mrs F could have been clearer about what the referral 
to the underwriter could mean for her claim. But I dont think this means Advantage needs to 
honour the incorrect offer it made to settle the claim. As explained above, I think the overall 
claim decision it reached was correct, so it wouldnt be fair to expect it to settle a claim which 
isnt covered under the policy terms. 
However, I do agree that Mrs F has suffered a loss of expectation. And I agree that it would 
have been frustrating chasing updates, only to later learn that the claim she thought had 
been accepted had now been declined. But given this all took place within a period of one 
week, I think the £30 compensation Advantage has offered is enough to fairly compensate 
Mrs F for the impact of Advantages errors here. So, Ill not be directing Advantage to take 
any further action.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Fs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs F and Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman