DRN-4030292
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MI) have handled a hire purchase 
agreement and a personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement that he took out with them. 
What happened
Mr K says he took out the following two finance agreements to use the cars for both personal 
and business use. 
Car one
In September 2020, Mr K acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement which was worth 
around £54,000. A £10,000 deposit was paid, and the total amount payable was around 
£62,400 over 60 months. The monthly repayments were £874.67, with a final payment of 
£875.67.
Car two
In August 2021, Mr K acquired a car under a PCP agreement with a cash price of £51,990. A 
£5,000 deposit was paid and the total amount payable was around £60,200 over 38 months. 
The monthly repayments were around £930 with an optional final purchase payment of 
around £20,800.
Mr K says he left car one with a friend in December 2021 in Scotland. Mr K was in England 
and was unable to collect the car from Scotland due to falling ill with Covid-19. Mr K says his 
friend asked him to use the car for an emergency and he agreed to this. In early January 
2022, his friend was caught by the police driving the car and so it was seized and 
impounded on suspicion the car was stolen. Mr K was made aware the car was seized, but 
due to still being unwell, he wasnt able to collect it from the compound.
Mr K says he was told by the police that he could collect the car but that hed have to contact 
MI first. Mr K then contacted MI towards the end of January 2022, to let them know what had 
happened. At the same time, Mr K asked for a settlement figure to settle the agreement and 
to be able to keep the car. Mr K says hed been told by MI he could pay the settlement for 
both cars. Mr K says he offered to return car two to MI as this was an option they gave him 
and just pay the settlement for and keep car one. 
Mr K complains MI never sent him the settlement figure he asked for and believed they were 
being obstructive to him. Mr K says instead, MI sent default notices explaining theyd take 
possession of both cars and sell them. Eventually, MI wrote to Mr K in February 2022 to let 
him know they had grounds to believe he had seriously breached the terms of both 
agreements and that the cars were materially at risk. So, after considering things, MI said 
they concluded it was right for them to terminate both agreements. Mr K says this was unfair 
as previously, they were prepared to give him the early settlement figures, but then that 
seemed to have been retracted. Mr K says it also wasnt clear why MI had terminated both 
agreements.
Mr K says while he recognised he breached the agreement by not informing MI of car ones 
seizure, Mr K says MI unfairly repossessed this car. Mr K also says he paid more than one 
third of his repayments, so MI needed to have a court order to repossess the car, which they 
didnt have. Mr K says he hadnt breached any of the terms in the agreement for car two, so 
he didnt think theyd fairly terminated that agreement. Mr K also says MI didnt give him a 
chance to collect car one himself and feels hes not been treated fairly by them.
Mr K says it was unfair for MI to sell car one at an auction and charge him auction fees  Mr 
K says he could have easily have found a buyer for this car, sell it at a higher price and avoid 
the costs he was charged by MI. 
Overall, Mr K doesnt think hes been treated fairly by MI as theyve terminated both 
agreements.
MI said having reviewed the circumstances relating to the seizure of car one, they were 
satisfied their approach was appropriate and reasonable - their decision to terminate the 
agreements and recover the cars for sale was correct. MI say they acknowledge Mr K was 
given information which was contradictory to their position set out in their default notices, 
and accepted this wasnt helpful to Mr K. However, taking into account the wider 
circumstances, MI say they didnt believe Mr K had been substantially misled or caused any 
unfairness. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and concluded:
In relation to car one:
Mr K had acknowledged car one wasnt in his possession (hed given it to a friend to 
use in an emergency) before it was seized and didnt dispute the fact that he 
breached the agreements terms relating to not informing MI immediately about the 
seizure.
Mr K wasnt able to provide evidence to show the friend who drove the car was 
insured. Instead, there was evidence of a fleet insurance policy which allowed 
anyone over 25 to drive the car. Despite Mr K saying this was a one-off occurrence, 
our Investigator understood MIs concerns that Mr K may allow the cars to be driven 
by others given the type of insurance policy in place.
Our Investigator recognised MI didnt obtain a court order as per sections 90 and 91 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). However, this term is written for the 
protection of the consumer. But in this case, the car wasnt repossessed from the 
debtor  Mr K  it was recovered from a compound where the car had been held 
since the police seizure. 
MI were left with a difficult choice as Mr K told them during a conversation in 
February 2022 that the compound were going to dispose of the car two days later. 
So, it was understandable for MI to recover the car to ensure this didnt happen and 
to sell it at auction. MI werent wrong to act quickly to collect the car.
Mr K admitted to not always having the car in his possession  he said he works 
between his home address in England and Scotland. MI werent aware the cars were 
being kept at another location, which meant a further breach of the terms of the 
agreement.
Mr K had also changed the number plate of the car which was a breach of the terms.
In relation to car two:The default notice served for this car said Mr K failed to comply with the conditions of 
his agreement. Mr K had changed the number plate of the car and the car had been 
kept and insured in a manner which meant it wasnt always under Mr Ks control -  
there was a suspicion he allowed others to use the car. 
As the agreement had been terminated, our Investigator said she would have 
expected Mr K to mitigate any other losses like payments for tax, MOT or insurance, 
himself by amending an insurance cover or stop any other ongoing costs relating to 
the car.
Mr K didnt initially want to surrender the car and while we couldnt direct Mr K to do 
anything, our Investigator reminded Mr K that under the terms of the agreement, he 
didnt own the car and MI could decide to sell the car at auction. 
Overall summary of conclusion:
MI hadnt acted unfairly when making their decision to terminate the agreements due 
to the breaches set out.
Even though Mr K was given the expectation he could settle the agreements and 
take ownership of the car, this expectation didnt lead to any material loss for Mr K.
MI had sold car one at auction in order to reduce depreciation and limit Mr Ks liability 
 this was fair for them to do as per the agreement terms. 
Mr K disagreed. Ive summarised the key points below:
He never changed his address and was working in Scotland at the time. His 
insurance company suggested he put the overnight address as the Scotland 
address. 
He never allowed anyone to be a regular user of car one and this was only used by 
his friend in an emergency. Mr K couldnt inform MI the car had been seized as he 
was unwell with Covid-19. Mr K also clarified the circumstances under which car one 
was seized and explained his friend had been parked when this happened.
He wasnt told by the dealership when acquiring the car that he needed to tell MI he 
changed the number plates on the car.
He was using both cars some of the time for business purposes and so it worked out 
better for him to have all his cars under one policy  the fleet insurance policy. 
He was told by the police compound several times he could collect car one. But that 
they just needed confirmation from MI which wasnt provided. The car was kept at the 
compound for over a month while MI did their investigations and they waited until the 
compound said they would dispose of the car before deciding to get the car.
Other than the number plate change, Mr K said he didnt breach any other terms and 
conditions on car two. This car was always in his possession as it was the newer car 
out of the two.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Current status of the two cars and agreements
MI have recently provided us with information about the status of both cars and agreements:
In relation to car one, MI told us it was sold at auction for around £45,000. MI also confirmed 
that after paying off the remaining amount on the finance agreement, this left a surplus 
amount of around £34,000 owing to Mr K.MI told us Mr K didnt initially want to return car two. But following conversations with Mr K in 
January 2023, he handed the car back to them. MI allowed the original motor dealer that 
supplied this car to Mr K to buy it back for £39,000. MI said there was a shortfall on this 
agreement following the sale of this car  the settlement balance was around £44,900, so 
after deducting the £39,000 that the car sold for, this left a shortfall of around £5,900. MI said 
they deducted this shortfall amount from the surplus amount of car one, leaving Mr K to 
receive around £29,600 as a net surplus amount. MI say theyve arranged for this amount to 
be paid into Mr Ks bank account.
So, overall, both cars have been sold and both agreements have ended with nothing left for 
Mr K to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made
by the parties involved as I appreciate that a lot of information and testimony has been 
provided. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it, I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
While both agreements have ended and both cars sold, Mr K has remained of the opinion 
that MI have treated him unfairly in their handling of both agreements. So, Ive thought about 
whether MI acted reasonably in terminating the agreements. 
In relation to car one, the credit agreement sets out its terms and conditions. I think the 
below is most relevant to the circumstances here:
You must inform us immediately of any damage to the vehicle, or if the vehicle has 
been stolen, seized or lost and about anything else which may affect our ownership 
of the Vehicle.
Mr K has acknowledged he didnt let MI know the car had been seized as he was ill with 
Covid-19. I understand Mr Ks point, but he also previously told us it had completely left his 
mind to call MI about this and understands this was a mistake. Mr K only contacted MI when 
he was told the compound wouldnt give him access to the car without MIs confirmation. So, 
having considered this, Im satisfied Mr K breached the relevant term above because he 
forgot to contact MI.
MI also had some concerns about the car and whose possession it was in  the agreements 
terms state the car must be kept in Mr Ks possession or under his control at all times. This 
wasnt the case as Mr Ks friend was using it, in Scotland, while Mr K was in England, for 
reasons hes explained. However, MI werent aware of this and had concerns the car was 
being used or allowed to be used by someone else, which is a breach of the agreement. 
Mr K acknowledges he breached the above term but feels MIs actions of repossessing the 
car are not relative to the breach. I understand Mr Ks point, but as Ive said, MI had 
concerns about the car and as theyre the owners of the goods, theyre entitled to terminate 
the agreement if there has been a breach. And I dont find this action to be unreasonable in 
the circumstances of this case.Mr K raised a concern that MI didnt obtain a court order before repossessing the car and 
says they should have done this. It doesnt seem to be in dispute a court order wasnt 
obtained, so Ill go on to comment on whether I think it was fair for MI to repossess the car 
without one.
As our Investigator explained, under the CCA, where one third of the total amount has been 
paid under the agreement, a creditor cant recover possession of the goods from a debtor 
without a court order. But from the information I have available to me, the car was recovered 
from a third party i.e. the compound where it had been held after the police seized it and not 
from the debtor, Mr K. So, there isnt a breach of the CCA here. I appreciate Mr K feels MI 
stalled things by not collecting car one sooner and chose to do this two days before the 
compound said they were intending to dispose of the car. But it seems MI were carrying out 
investigations into what had happened. And I dont find this to be unreasonable. Ultimately, 
even if MI did obtain a court order, they were doing so at the risk of the car potentially being 
disposed of. So, I think MIs actions of recovering the car as quickly as possible to then allow 
them to sell the car and reduce the amount of money Mr K owed under the agreement 
wasnt unreasonable.
Mr K says he could have sold the car himself and for more money than MI did at auction. 
However, when MI terminated the agreement, I dont find it unreasonable that they didnt 
allow Mr K to then become in possession of the car to be able to sell it himself. As Ive 
already mentioned, the car was MIs asset and not Mr Ks. 
Mr K has questioned why he was charged auction fees, but he hasnt provided further detail 
on the fees themselves. MI said there were costs associated in recovering car one, but that 
in the end, Mr K wasnt charged these. In any case, as per the terms of the agreement, Mr K 
is responsible for any costs incurred by MI in the event of a breach, which results in MI 
taking steps to repossess the car or enforce the agreement  including legal costs, court 
fees and costs incurred in selling the car. So, I dont think it was unfair for MI to charge Mr K 
any fees relating to the selling of the car. 
Mr K also acknowledged changing the number plates on both cars. Mr K first said the 
dealership knew he was changing the number plates and that they never told him to tell MI. 
More recently, Mr K says after changing the number plates, he had many calls with MI and 
they knew about the number plate changes but didnt mention anything to him about it. Mr K 
hasnt expanded on how he knows MI knew about the number plates being changed - Mr K 
acknowledges not telling them about this and I havent seen any evidence to suggest MI 
were made aware of this by another party. 
Mr K says the dealership knew he was changing the number plates, but they didnt tell him to 
tell MI. Under Section 56 of the CCA, the dealership would be acting as MIs agent and so 
MI would be responsible for anything the dealership did or didnt say. The dealerships that 
supplied the cars havent suggested they were aware of the number plate change. Having 
considered this, alongside the inconsistencies in what Mr K has told us, Im not persuaded 
the dealerships nor MI were aware of the number plate changes. Overall, the term of car one 
says Mr K cant interfere or allow anyone else to interfere with any registration plates. This 
term is also mirrored in the agreement of car two. So, I think Mr K breached this term by 
changing the number plates.
Mr K told us he used both cars for personal and business use. And that he wasnt able to 
keep both in his possession at all times as understandably, he couldnt physically drive both 
at the same time. Mr K says he works in between his home address in England and 
Scotland and that his insurance company advised him to use the Scotland address as the 
overnight address. However, this address was different to that on the agreements  they 
both had the England address. Mr K says he kept car two in his possession as it was the newer car out of the two, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest MI were made aware 
car one would potentially be kept at a different address. Theres a strong suspicion the 
agreement was breached on this basis, but even if Im wrong on this, its not unreasonable 
for MI to want to know where the car was kept.
I appreciate the service Mr K received wasnt always as he expected. Specifically, when MI 
initially told him they were prepared to let him settle the agreements but didnt tell him what 
the settlement figures were. I can understand the frustration caused to Mr K when finding out 
that they werent in fact going to settle the agreements and were taking possession of the 
cars. And I can see MI recognised this could have been dealt with better. But I dont think MI 
need to do anything more in recognition of this as I dont think theres really been an impact 
on Mr K. Ultimately, MI were investigating matters and gathering information into what 
happened which I dont find to be unreasonable.
Having considered all of the information, Mr K breached the terms of both agreements as 
Ive set out above, so I dont think MI were unfair in terminating the agreements, requesting 
that car two was handed back and then selling both cars before offsetting the amount 
against the agreements. Ultimately, MI owned the goods and were satisfied there were 
terms in the agreements which had been breached.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman