DRN-2762613
The complaint
Mr H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined his claim for a
stolen mobile phone.
What happened
Mr H has mobile phone insurance as part of a package with his current account. The mobile
phone insurance covers loss, theft, damage or breakdown.
On 30 September 2020, Mr H registered a claim with Assurant for his mobile phone being
stolen. He explained he was in the process of selling his phone. The potential buyer came to
Mr Hs home and was going to pay him cash in exchange for the phone. Mr H noticed the
banknotes he was given were counterfeit and became uncomfortable. He let the individual
know he no longer wanted to sell his mobile phone. At that point, the individual took the
phone from the table and went out of the house  so, in effect, he stole the phone. Mr H said
he had his pregnant wife and his parents in the home so didnt attempt to stop the individual.
He reported the stolen phone to the police.
The claim was declined by Assurant because it says the phone was stolen as a result of the
sale taking place. The terms and conditions state theres no cover for any loss of mobile
phone or any loss of money expected from any transaction, from the sale or trade of your
mobile phone.
Unhappy with Assurants response, Mr H brought the complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She explained the terms and conditions
specifically refer to the phone having been actively passed to an individual. She said as
Mr H hadnt actively passed his phone to the individual, the exclusion applied by Assurant
couldnt be fairly relied on.
Assurant didnt agree. It asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to make a
decision. Assurant said:
The theft occurred as a result of Mr H attempting to sell his mobile phone;
The sale was already initiated as a complete stranger was invited to Mr Hs house to 
inspect the device and carry out sale details;
Mr H could have mitigated the risk by keeping the phone at a safer distance and not 
within easy reach, which would have reduced the risk of it being picked up and 
leaving with it.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2021. I said the following:
The terms and conditions
Page 7 in the policy booklet provides information on additional exclusions that apply. This
states:
Mobile phone insurance
Theft, loss, damage or breakdown where you have knowingly put your mobile 
phone at risk or you have not taken care of it.
Page 96 outlines What you are NOT covered for. They state:
Losses incurred as a result of the sale of your mobile phone 
We do not cover any loss of your mobile phone or any loss of money expected from 
any transaction, from the sale or trade of your mobile phone. 
This is because the mobile phone will have been actively passed to an individual or
business and therefore, no loss or theft has taken place. We therefore recommend
you take precautions if you sell your mobile phone, such as:
- Waiting for payment (including waiting for cheques to clear) before releasing
your mobile phone,
- Using a secure payment service,
- Not accepting cash payments from people you dont know (who could be
using forged banknotes), and
- Ensuring your mobile phone is sent using a reliable and suitably insured
delivery service.
From the above terms and conditions, I dont think Mr Hs mobile is covered. This is because
Mr H attempted to sell the phone, but I cant see that he took the recommended precautions.
My understanding is that he agreed and intended to accept cash from someone he didnt
know. He therefore knowingly put his mobile phone at risk by accepting that payment would
be made by cash.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Ive considered the circumstances of the complaint. My understanding is that Mr H was in
the process of selling his mobile phone. So, had the transaction gone according to plan, he
would have sold his phone to the individual and accepted cash in exchange.
Unfortunately, the transaction didnt go to plan and Mr H was given counterfeit notes. He
noticed this and attempted to withdraw from selling his phone and, at that point, the
individual took the phone and left Mr Hs home. Effectively, he stole the phone from Mr Hs
home and left no valid payment in exchange.
I appreciate Mr H didnt want to stop the individual as he had his pregnant wife and parents
at home at the time and thats understandable. He reported the theft to the police. I also
appreciate what happened was not anticipated. However, it is for reasons such as this that
Assurant has included terms and conditions in the policy which say cash payments from a
stranger isnt recommended because the cash could be in the form of forged notes.
But for Mr H noticing the cash was counterfeit, the phone would have been actively passed
to the individual. The fact that Mr H agreed to sell his mobile phone for cash and accept this
from a person not known to him put additional risk to the situation. From what I can see, this
is a risk for which Mr H wasnt covered for.I dont agree with Assurant that Mr H could have mitigated the risk by keeping the phone at a
safer distance. In order to sell a phone the potential buyer would have wanted to inspect the
device and therefore keeping it anywhere else would have prevented this from happening.
Overall, therefore, I think Assurant declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of
the policy. I also think it declined the claim fairly and reasonably in doing so. It follows that I
dont intend to ask Assurant to do anything further.
Assurant responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr H didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I received no further comments from either party, theres no reason for me to depart from 
the provisional decision I made on 17 March 2021. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Assurant declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. I also think it declined the claim fairly and reasonably in doing so. It follows that 
Assurant doesnt need to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman