DRN-2311892
The complaint
 Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
 In February 2019 Mr D fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
In February 2019, Mr D received a phone call from what appeared to be a Barclays number. 
The caller told Mr D there had been a fraudulent attempt on his bank account and that his 
money was at risk. Mr D thought the caller was genuine as it appeared it was a Barclays 
number that was calling him and hed previously had an attempt of fraud on his account. But 
unknown to him at the time the call was from a fraudster.
The fraudster told Mr D the best course of action would be for him to move his money into a 
new account that would be set up for him. Mr D was given the account details for the new 
account and told he should transfer the money to this.
Believing the call to be genuine Mr D went ahead and made the following payments, via his 
online banking;
26/2/2019 £989.00
26/2/2019 £989.00
The following day, Mr D attempted to make a third payment of £430.43, but this payment 
was declined by the receiving bank.
 
On realising something wasnt right Mr D contacted Barclays on 27 February 2019 to report 
the scam. Barclays contacted the receiving bank, but it was advised that no funds remained.
Mr D complained to Barclays as he said he was led to believe it was Barclays who were 
contacting him, as its telephone number had been compromised. Barclays looked into        
Mr Ds complaint and it issued its final response on 17 May 2019, not upholding the 
complaint. 
Mr D then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays to have not spotted that 
these payments were going to a fraudster.  He didnt think the first two payments were so 
suspicious that he would have expected Barclays to have intervened.  Our investigator 
added that at the point the third payment was made, for £430.43, he would have 
recommended that this be refunded  as the payment virtually emptied the account and he 
considered it would have looked suspicious.  But as the payment was rejected by the 
receiving bank, there was no loss to Mr D from this payment, so he wouldnt be asking 
Barclays to do anything further. 
Our investigator said that at the time Mr D reported the scam to Barclays, the money from 
the first two payments had already been removed from the receiving bank account.  
Alongside this our investigator said that the telephone number appearing as if it came from 
Barclays, was not due to Barclays systems being compromised, but rather an abuse of how 
the caller display feature works. 
Our investigator thought that Barclays could have notified Mr D sooner than it did, that no 
funds remained. Our investigator thought this delay caused Mr D to worry about his lost 
funds for longer than he needed to.  Due to this oversight by Barclays, our investigator 
recommended it pay Mr D £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Barclays accepted our investigators view, but Mr D disagreed. So the complaint has now 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr D, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Barclays actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to leave     
Mr Ds account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover 
the money.  
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should 
reimburse him the money he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Payments Services Regulations 2017 states that Mr D is liable for any transactions that 
he has authorised or consented to. So, although Mr D didnt intend the money to go to the 
fraudster, under the relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr D 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr D, when Mr D made a transfer to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr D has accepted that he authorised the transfer himself. Because of this, Barclays had an 
obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Mr Ds account activity for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I 
dont think the first two payments Mr D made to the fraudster were particularly unusual or out 
of character in comparison to the normal account activity.  There are a number of other 
transactions of over £100, ranging up to £1,200, and the transactions made to the fraudsters 
didnt clear the account balance, which is often the case with scams such as these.  So, on 
balance, I dont think the payments made, each of £989, were so out of character or 
unusual, compared with how the account was typically run, that I could fairly have expected 
Barclays to have made enquiries about the payments before processing them. 
I do think at the time Mr D attempted to make a third payment there was enough going on 
that I would have expected Barclays to have intervened.  As here the payment was nearly 
clearing the entire balance and a pattern was emerging of payments being made in relatively 
quick succession.  But, as our investigator has said in their view, this payment was 
recovered and so I cant order Barclays to refund this as the money was not lost. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Barclays did what it shouldve done once Mr D reported 
to it that hed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Barclays made to 
recover the money, once Mr D reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Barclays to refund the money to Mr D, I need to be satisfied that Barclays should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Barclays raised the matter with the receiving bank on 28 February 
2019, but the money had been removed from the receiving bank on the same day that Mr D 
had made the payments. So sadly, none of the money Mr D had paid remained, because it 
had already been removed from the recipients account.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said, that he thinks Barclays systems had been 
compromised for its telephone numbers to appear. Telephone spoofing is an extremely 
disarming aspect of social engineering scams, which convinces the victim they are dealing 
with someone genuine. I havent seen any evidence that Barclays systems had been compromised. Rather, it appears the fraudsters had utilised clever technology that replicated 
the banks phone number.  And I cant fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money 
due to this.
Our investigator reviewed the service Barclays provided and felt it could have responded to 
Mr D in a more timely manner regarding there being no funds left to recover. Due to this 
delay our investigator recommended Barclays pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Its very unfortunate Mr D has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the 
whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly say Barclays should have done more to prevent him losing this money. 
So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Barclays to refund the loss.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mr D £100 for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman