DRN-4155145
The complaint
Mr N is complaining that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) hasnt covered a 
claim he made on his buildings insurance policy.
Mr N has been represented by his son throughout the claim and complaint. But for ease of 
reference, I shall refer to anything his son has done or said as being done or said by Mr N. 
Further to this, RSA has also used a number of agents to manage the claim. But I shall also 
refer to anything the agents have done on behalf of RSA as being done by RSA.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr N contacted RSA to claim for damage to his property he says arose 
from a storm. He said there was water coming in through the roof which has in turn caused 
internal damage. He says RSA told him to repair the roof to minimise the risk of further 
damage. RSA ultimately declined the claim as it said the damage to the roof was down to 
wear and tear and it thought the damage internally had occurred due to a prolonged period 
of water ingress. Mr N didnt think RSA had handled the claim fairly for the following reasons:
He says he was told to get the repairs done himself when he first called to report the 
claim. So he paid for the roof repairs himself. He doesnt think its fair it later said it 
wouldnt cover the cost.
He disagreed that the damage was down to wear and tear. He said water leaked through 
a lead-sheet covered box gutter. He said this had been replaced around 14 years 
beforehand by a qualified roofing contractor. He said this should have lasted at least 50 
years. So he didnt agree it would have deteriorated in such a short period of time.
He said he had a qualified roofing contractor inspect the roof who he concluded that the 
lead sheet on a box gutter had been damaged during the rainstorms and would require 
replacement at a cost of £6,000, which he paid.
He said RSAs appointed agents said the claim should be paid, but this was overturned 
by RSA, which he doesnt think was fair.
He said he was prevented from speaking with the claims team as he says RSA told him 
that the team in question werent a consumer facing team.
He highlighted RSA changed the claim type from storm damage to an escape of water 
claim, as he says he was told that this would mean the claim was more likely to be paid.
He maintained that his policy covered loss or damage arising from storms, escape of 
water or accidental damage, which he says covers all the scenarios where his property 
was damaged.
He said he asked RSA to provide evidence the damage arose due to wear and tear, but 
it was unable to do so as it only inspected the property after the repairs had been done. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr N didnt agree so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ns complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr N has also raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy 
with the way RSA has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point hes 
raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mr N, however that Ive read and considered everything hes provided.
I think there are two core aspects of this claim  the damage to the roof and then the 
subsequent internal damage. I shall consider each point separately.
Roof damage
RSA initially considered whether the damage to the roof was covered under the policys 
storm damage cover. But it said it wasnt because it didnt consider the damage was caused 
by a storm. Ive thought about whether this was fair.
The terms of the policy dont define what is meant by a storm, so Ive thought about whether 
the weather conditions, at the time Mr N says the damage occurred, would reasonably be 
considered to be a storm. In thinking about this, I think its reasonable to say that that a 
storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by heavy rain, hail or snow. 
I understand that, on the day in question, the winds reached a maximum speed of around 
31mph and a total rainfall of around 18mm over the course of the day. While I do not dispute 
that this was bad weather on the day, Im not persuaded the strength of the wind or amount 
of rainfall were to the extent to be considered a storm. So, it follows, that I dont think it was 
unfair for RSA to say there wasnt a storm on the day in question and to say the damage 
wasnt covered under storm cover.
RSA then went on to consider whether the claim could be covered under the policys escape 
of water cover. However, the terms of the policy sets out what cover it provides for loss or 
damage in these circumstances and says the following:
WHAT IS COVERED
3. Freezing of fixed water or fixed heating systems.
Water escaping from washing machines or dishwashers, fixed water or fixed heating 
systems.
Oil escaping from a fixed heating system.
RSA said it reviewed the box gutter where the leak came from and it thought the box gutter 
was an integral part of the roof, which it said is attached to the roof structure and then feeds 
into a gutter and a downpipe. So it didnt think it was a fixed water installation and was part 
of the roof itself. I cant say that this is an unreasonable thing to conclude.
I recognise that its cost a lot of money to put things right and I naturally sympathise with the 
situation Mr N has found himself in, but no insurance policy covers each and every 
eventuality. Ultimately, I cant say it was unreasonable for RSA to say that the damage to the 
roof was not covered under the terms of the insurance policy.
I note Mr N has disputed that the damage is down to wear and tear, but I dont need to make 
a finding on this. The primary issue is whether the damage is down to an insured event as set out in the terms of the policy  in this case storm damage or escape of water. And, for 
the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied it wasnt.
I note Mr N says he was told to get the roof fixed to prevent the damage getting worse, but I 
havent seen anything to support that. Ive listened to the telephone calls Mr N had with RSA 
and its agents. Mr N initially spoke the home emergency department when first called to 
discuss the incident. He asked if he should get the roof fixed, but he was told he should 
contact RSA to see whether it was covered under his buildings cover. And the call handler 
didnt tell him to get it fixed.
Ive listened to a further telephone call Mr N had with RSA where he says he was told to get 
the roof fixed by RSAs agent. In that call the call handler again set out that the claim hadnt 
been validated as of yet and didnt confirm it would get settled. Ultimately, I havent seen 
anywhere that RSA said to Mr N he should get the roof repaired himself or told him it would 
settle the claim. I recognise that Mr N felt he had no choice but to get the roof repaired to 
prevent further damage, but I cant reasonably require RSA to refund the amount hes paid.
Internal damage
Under the terms of the policy, RSA will cover loss or damage thats considered to be 
accidental damage. Accidental damage is defined as Sudden, unexpected and visible 
damage which has not been caused on purpose. The key point here is that the damage 
needs to be sudden and unexpected.  
RSA doesnt consider the damage to fall within the definition of accidental damage as it 
believes the damage occurred over a period of time. Ive looked at the pictures of the 
damage which were taken around a week after the event and I cant reasonably say that it 
was unreasonable for RSA to conclude as it has. I can see that there are traces of mould in 
amongst the water damage and I think its unlikely that this extent of damage would have 
occurred within a week and is more likely to have happened over a prolonged period of time.
Ultimately, I think it was fair for RSA to conclude that the internal damage wasnt down to a 
sudden or unexpected event. And, it follows therefore, that I dont think it was unreasonable 
for RSA to say that the damage wasnt covered under the terms of the insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman