DRN-3065690
The complaint
Mr W complains about a loan given to him by UK Credit Limited.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr W applied to UK Credit for a loan of £4,000. The loan was agreed and was 
to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £176.39. Mr W says that the loan was never 
affordable for him so UK Credit should have refused to lend. He also complains about his 
treatment after he told them he was having difficulty making the payments due to a change 
in his circumstances.
UK Credit looked into his complaint and sent its final response. It explained the checks it had 
carried out during the assessment of Mr Ws application and felt that the loan was affordable 
based on the information it had. UK Credit accepted it could have done better in handling 
and made an offer to freeze interest on the loan going forward.
Mr W was unhappy with UK Credits response, so he referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She felt that UK Credit should have identified Mr Ws financial 
situation was worsening at the time of the application, and ought to have refused to lend to 
him. She was satisfied with UK Credits handling of Mr Ws situation once he had difficulty 
making the payments. She asked UK Credit to put things right on the basis that the loan 
shouldnt have been given.
Mr W accepted what our investigator said, but UK Credit didnt. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
UK Credit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about UK Credit assessing the likelihood 
of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on him. The fact 
that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the 
guarantor instead of Mr W doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
In this case, UK Credit checked Mr Ws credit file, checked his stated income with a 
verification tool and spoke to him about his expenditure. So I can understand why UK Credit 
felt it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on his application before 
agreeing to lend to Mr W. 
But simply carrying out the checks doesnt go far enough  UK Credit had to carefully 
consider what it found out as a result of the checks in order to reach a fair decision to lend. 
Mr Ws credit file showed three defaulted accounts and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
from more than two years ago but nonetheless remain outstanding. But there was also a 
more recent payday loan default from March 2018 for £158  just three months before this 
application. So, while its evident Mr W had some financial difficulties a couple of years ago, 
his credit file also shows signs of problems more recently. Mr W told UK Credit this default 
was in his name but for a loan taken out by his girlfriend.
During the application process, UK Credit spoke with Mr W about the purpose of the loan, 
his employment, his income and expenditure. He said he was looking to borrow to refinance 
some other debts. He explained hed been in his current role about five months, but that hed 
previously been earning more, so hed got into debt. Unfortunately its evident from the call 
that the advisor didnt really listen to what he had to say here, as he spoke over Mr W and 
said I know what you mean, you think oh yeah thats great, Ive got a little bit more 
disposable income now, but in fact, Mr W had said the opposite  he was earning less than 
before which had caused him to get into debt he wished to consolidate.
UK Credit went through his credit file to identify the debt he wished to consolidate. Mr W said 
he wanted to repay everything to have one payment going out. The debt on his credit file at 
the time totalled £2,365  some of which Mr W said he was unaware of. He said he owes his 
father £2,000 and £500 to his girlfriend which he was looking to repay. So, the £4,000 Mr W 
was looking to borrow wasnt going to be sufficient to achieve his aim of repaying all his 
debts. Mr W did say however, that he felt his father wouldnt mind if he was a bit short.
Mr W quoted his new income as £1,650 per month and UK Credit was able to verify that. 
When UK Credit asked about his expenditure, Mr W said he gave his dad about £100 a 
month for rent. The advisor then said hed met the affordability criteria. So it appeared that 
Mr W had a large monthly disposable income so he ought reasonably have been able to 
afford the £176 monthly payments on the new loan.
As Ive said, UK Credit didnt just have to carry out reasonable checks, but it had to think 
about the information it received in order to reach a fair decision. In this case, I dont think it 
did  let me explain why.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time the loan was agreed, 
CONC 1.3 set out examples of which a lender my be aware or ought reasonably to be 
aware, may indicate that a customer is in financial difficulties. These include:
adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute; 
outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
consecutively failing to meet repayments when due.
CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment 
of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
CONC 5.3.7 said a firm must not accept an application for creditwhere the firm knows or 
ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthfulin the information 
suppliedrelevant to the creditworthiness assessment.Based on the figures Mr W had provided for his income and expenditure, it would appear 
that he had a disposable income in excess of £1,350 a month (after this new loan) which 
would lead me to question why someone with such a large surplus income would need a 
payday loan in the first place, let alone falling into default on it. His credit file shows a start 
balance for the loan of just £80. While Mr W had said this was related to his girlfriend, if hed 
had such a disposable income as this, I cant think of a reason hed have allowed it to 
default.
Mr W didnt dispute most of the other defaults which show on his credit file, including the 
CCJ which remained outstanding. And his two current credit cards were at  or very close to 
 their limits.
Ive already mentioned that the advisor didnt listen carefully when Mr W explained he was 
earning less than he had previously which had led him to fall into debt. The fact that hed 
fallen into debt was evidenced by the circumstances Ive just outlined.
Mr W was borrowing money with high annual percentage rate (59.9%) and over a five-year 
period. Around half the debt he was planning to repay was defaulted so would not have been 
attracting interest at all. I think he may have been best advised to make arrangements to 
speak to the creditors and arrange payment plans with them  especially if his disposable 
income was to be believed  he could have been debt free within a few months having paid 
little or no interest.
I can see why UK Credit felt it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. But if it 
had given proper thought to Mr Ws circumstances rather than simply accepting what it was 
told, and had considered the terms of CONC Ive outlined above, I think it ought to have 
refused to lend to Mr W. I dont think it reached a fair decision to lend so I uphold this aspect 
of Mr Ws complaint.
Ive thought about the treatment Mr W complains of since he fell into arrears on the loan. 
Like our investigator, Im reasonably satisfied that UK Credit did what it could to assist him 
and provided explanations for next steps so, I dont uphold this part of his complaint. Ill not 
go into detail here as both parties are aware of our view of this part of the complaint already.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr W in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. Mr W was given the loan, used the money, so its right that he should 
repay what he borrowed. I think UK Credit should:
Calculate the total amount Mr W received from UK Credit and deduct from that figure 
the repayments hes made to the loan.
oIf this results in Mr W having repaid more than he received, any 
overpayments should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per 
year should be added to any overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr W to pay, UK Credit 
should let him know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable 
payment plan with him. I remind UK Credit of its obligation to treat customers fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding each loan. 
*If UK Credit considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. UK Credit limited should put things right as 
Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman