DRN-1061777
 
The complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs H took out a credit card with Barclays in 2001. At the same time she was sold a regular 
premium PPI policy to cover her credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy was 
presented as optional and thought the policy provided a useful benefit.
Mrs H disagreed. She says she didnt need the policy.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H applied for her credit card by completing a postal application form. Barclays needed to 
make it clear the PPI was optional and make sure Mrs H agreed to take it. 
Ive looked at the original credit card application sent to us by Barclays completed and 
signed by Mrs H. In the section titled Barclaycard Payment Protection Mrs H has ticked 
next to the words Yes, please can I apply for Barclaycard Payment Protection. 
If Mrs H didnt want the cover she couldve left it blank like she did for the Barclaycard Card 
Protection. So I think its likely Mrs H wouldve understood the PPI was optional and she 
signed in the section to take PPI because she wanted the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Barclays advised Mrs H to take 
PPI. What this means is that Barclays didnt recommend PPI to Mrs H, it just gave her 
information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
Barclays say that sufficient information wouldve been given to allow Mrs H to make an 
informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. I can see some information on PPI is 
given on the application form. But I cant say whether all the proper information needed was 
given. That being said even if Barclays did give all the information Mrs H needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at 
the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mrs H says she was entitled to some sick pay but had no other 
means of making her credit card payments if she couldnt work. A successful claim 
on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and covered her for potentially 
longer and if she lost her job. So I cant see how knowing this information wouldve 
put her off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs H and she could 
cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs H on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman