DRN-3042908
The complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited rejected his claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
in respect of the purchase of timeshare points. The purchase was made with his wife but the 
MBNA account is in his name and as such he is the sole complainant. For the purposes of 
this decision I will refer to Mr W as the sole purchaser.
What happened
In September 2013 Mr W purchased a points-based timeshare membership from a company 
I will call L using his MBNA credit card. Mr W and his wife were on holiday using their 
existing infinity membership points and were approached by a representative and invited to 
attend a meeting. 
The membership allows a consumers points to be exchanged for holidays across Ls 
portfolio (subject to the type of points purchased). Mr W agreed to the purchase and the 
paperwork was completed. The cost of the points was £3,000 plus a further deferred sum of 
£3,000. He paid £3,389.03 to purchase the membership and incurred ongoing maintenance 
fees. Mr W has claimed a refund of £5,990.97.
Mr W said they had been told that:
The maintenance fees would not increase.
He had to purchase 24,000 points to have the get out clause.
He would receive extra points (more than wanted) as part of the package to ensure 
the maintenance fees didnt increase; and
The existing product they had with Infinity, had been in perpetuity, so by purchasing 
this membership he could exit it in 10 years.
Unhappy with MBNAs decision Mr W brought a complaint to this service. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who did not recommend it be upheld.
She said that the representative may well have painted a favourable picture and would most 
likely have glossed over some of the detail. However, she noted the paperwork set out the 
length of the contract term, how annual fees would be calculated, that it was subject to 
availability and should not be viewed as a financial investment. 
She also said that Mr W was an existing customer, so it was reasonable to conclude he 
wouldve been familiar with how the booking system, availability and resorts operated. As 
such she didnt think she could conclude MBNA had not treated Mr W fairly in its response to 
his claim.
Mr W didnt agree and said his original membership contract allowed him to surrender his 
membership, but this had not been explained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Mr W and L are deemed to have been conducted by L as an agent for MBNA. This 
includes any representations made by L and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of L will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr W and MBNA.
For the purposes of the law a misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been 
made and that false statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or 
services. In order to find a misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false 
statement of fact has been made and it needs to be decided that that false statement 
induced the consumer to enter into the agreement.
The two key matters which Mr W argues give rise to a misrepresentation is that he was told 
he had to buy the additional points to be able to exit his membership and that the 
maintenance fees would not increase. He relies on his recollection of the verbal presentation 
made by the representative. However, I have read his letter to L dated 21 November 2015 
which reinforces his view at that time that he didnt need the extra points and the purchase 
had been made to acquire an exit clause.
I have also noted the recent material submitted by Mr W and I note that it states:
You have entered into the Purchase Agreement [xxx] / Contract [xxx] with [L] (the "Vendor) 
on the 10.09.2013.
Subsequently to the signature of the above-mentioned Purchase Agreement we hereby 
confirm that from your 10th (tenth) year of membership, you may surrender your Club Infiniti 
Points partially or in its totality at no additional cost. Your first year of membership is stated 
on the first page of your Purchase Agreement as First Year of Use".
Please note that the acceptance of the surrender is subject to the payment of the annual 
fees for a minimum of 10 (ten years) and this agreement is extended to any previous Club 
Infiniti Purchase Agreements, if applicable.This right to surrender came from the 2013 purchase and not the original one. I do not 
consider this allows me to conclude that rights of surrender existed prior to the 2013 
purchase. The fact that the surrender letter supplied by Mr W is no different to previous 
certificates does not show that the 2010 purchase carried the same surrender rights.
I have also considered the club rules which contains a section on the transfer of 
membership rights. This does not refer to the surrendering of rights but the rules relating to 
sales by a member of their membership to a third party. This gives the members the right, 
subject to certain criteria the opportunity to sell their membership. It does not give them the 
right to surrender membership back to L. 
I have also noted Mr Ws letter to MBNA of 7 August 2018 in which he confirms the original 
membership had been in perpetuity, but he believed there was a three- or five-year strategy 
for exiting the membership. He said he not been made aware of this. Overall, I am not 
persuaded that Mr W had the right to surrender his membership prior to 2013. It is also worth 
noting that he took his time to reach the decision having taken time out of the meeting to 
consider the offer. I would have expected him to be satisfied that what he was buying was 
suitable for his requirements.
However, even if Mr W had the right to surrender with his original agreement I have not seen 
any clear evidence to show that L was guilty of misrepresentation. While I have no reason to 
doubt his recollections the documentary material does not support his claim and I cannot ask 
MBNA to make a significant payment without stronger evidence. 
In regard to the matter of maintenance fees I have seen no material that confirms the cost 
will not increase. It is usual for fees to increase to cover increasing costs and it is not clear 
that any increase can be shown as due to the 2013 agreement. 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, but I do not consider I can uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman