DRN-3374905
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how AWP P&C SA (AWP) handled a claim he made following an 
escape of water at his home.
What happened
On 13 August 2020, Mr A noticed water running down his hallway wall beneath his 
bathroom.  Mr A says he called the home emergency number listed in his policy 
documentation, but AWP didnt help with obtaining a tradesperson to address the escape of 
water. Instead, Mr A says AWP told him hed first need to trace and access the source of the 
leak. And that he could claim for the cost of doing this on his household insurance. Mr A 
says he spoke to his household insurer who said it wouldnt provide emergency assistance 
and would only advise him on how to make a claim for water damage.  Mr A then spoke 
again to AWP, but still wasnt offered any emergency assistance. Mr A complained. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us whilst waiting for AWP to respond to his complaint. He said 
that under the terms of his home emergency cover, AWP shouldve sent a tradesperson to 
deal with the emergency. And that the terms of his cover didnt say assistance would only be 
provided once the escape of water had been traced and accessed. Mr A said he wanted his 
premiums refunded and compensation for the time and effort hed to put into getting the 
complaint heard and resolved.
 
Mr A received AWPs Final Response Letter (FRL). The FRL said AWP was unable to find a 
recording of its telephone conversation with Mr A, but that AWP had been correct in telling 
Mr A that it would only attend a leak at his property if he was able to identify exactly where 
the leak was coming from. It said Mr As home emergency policy didnt cover trace and 
access, so AWP was also correct in referring Mr A to his household insurer for this. AWP 
said Mr As home emergency policy should complement his home insurance and that it 
provided benefits and services his home insurance didnt offer. AWP said Mr As home 
emergency policy didnt cover day-to-day property maintenance or items which gradually 
wear over time. And that AWP aims to provide rapid, expert help in a home emergency to 
stabilise the situation and resolve the emergency. It offered Mr A £45 for the delay in 
responding to his complaint, but Mr A was still unhappy.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. She said AWP shouldve dealt with Mr As claim 
as per the terms and conditions of his policy. She said the escape of water fell within the 
policy definition of an emergency. And that trace and access wouldnt have been necessary 
because she felt - from the information Mr A had provided to her - it was clear he knew the 
leak was coming from the waste pipe before he got in touch with the insurer. She said AWP 
should reimburse Mr A the cost hed incurred to repair the leak and pay him £150 
compensation. 
AWP responded saying Mr As plumbers invoice noted that trace and access was required.  
But Mr A said his plumber didnt have to search for the leak and only took steps to check the 
source of it. He said hed told AWP where he thought the leak was coming from and that 
there was water coming down a wall directly beneath the bath. He felt AWP should have 
been prepared to act on this information. 
Our investigator confirmed to both parties that she wouldnt be changing her view. But AWP 
didnt respond the view and so Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr A £176.40 
as set out in his plumbers invoice dated 29 August 2020, less any relevant excesses and 
£250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Mr A has raised a complaint about his household insurer in relation to these events. But my 
provisional decision will only cover the points Mr A has made which are relevant to his home 
emergency cover and AWP. 
When Mr A brought his complaint to us, he told us he felt AWP had taken too long to 
respond to his complaint and raised concerns about AWPs investigation of his complaint. 
Im unable to comment on the processes used by businesses to investigate and respond to 
complaints. They fall under the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority and are outside the 
scope of this service. 
But I am able to decide whether AWP acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr A and in line 
with the terms set out in his home emergency policy. And from the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think AWP has. Ill explain why. 
Mr As policy defines an emergency as A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, 
if not dealt with quickly, will:.damage, or cause further damage to your home or its 
contents. So I think the escape of water Mr A suffered meets his policys definition of an 
emergency. AWPs FRL says that day-to-day maintenance and gradual wear is excluded 
from cover. But Ive not seen any evidence suggesting the escape of water was caused by 
either of these, so I cant say this exclusion applies here.
  
Mr As policy wording says, in the What is covered column under the Home Emergency 
T&Cs heading on page 14 that AWP will provide cover if the emergency is caused by, 
Failure of, or damage to, the plumbing or drainage systems which will result in water 
damage inside your home. The only policy exclusion relating to water escape listed in Mr 
As policy wording concerns water escaping from internal plumbing safely down a drain, 
which isnt relevant here because the water was escaping down Mr As walls. So Im 
satisfied that Mr As escape of water would be covered under the terms of his policy.
Mr As policy wording says in the What is covered column that where the emergency is 
covered by the policy terms, AWP will arrange for a tradesperson to attend your home. And 
on page 3 of Mr As policy wording it says, We aim to provide rapid, expert help if you suffer 
an emergency arising from an incident covered under this policy. We will arrange for one of 
our list of approved contractors to attend and take actions to stabilise the situation or resolve 
the emergency. Mr As policy terms dont say that the rapid, expert help is dependent on 
him first tracing and accessing the source of the escape of water or him knowing where the 
leak was coming from. AWPs FRL said Mr As home emergency cover should complement his home insurance and 
provide benefits it didnt offer. Mr As home emergency policy wording does make a 
reference to his household cover as it says This policy is an emergency policy and not a 
buildings or contents policy. It should complement your home insurance, and provide 
benefits and services which are not normally available under that type of policy. But I dont 
think its reasonable for Mr A to understand from this that hed need to use the trace and 
access cover offered under his household insurance before AWP would send a 
tradesperson to deal with his emergency. 
So Im minded to uphold Mr As complaint. I think Mr As escape of water met the policy 
definition of an emergency. His policys terms say he can expect an emergency to be 
stabilised or resolved by a tradesperson but his policys terms dont also state this is 
dependent on him knowing where the leak was coming from or on him carrying out trace and 
access first.
 
So Im minded to require that AWP pay Mr A what it cost him to remedy the escape of water, 
as set out in his plumbers invoice. 
Ive also carefully considered the distress and inconvenience Mr A has suffered. And I dont 
think the £150 awarded to Mr A by our investigator is enough compensation for this. This is 
because - despite Mr As policys terms setting out that he can expect rapid emergency 
assistance - Mr A had to go to the trouble of organising his own plumber to deal with the 
emergency, which he then had to pay for himself. As well, Mr W had to speak to AWP at 
least twice asking it to help him with the emergency in line with his policys terms, but was 
still left to deal with the emergency himself. This must have been very frustrating and 
concerning for Mr A - especially during a home emergency. So Im minded to award Mr A 
£250 which I think is a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience AWP has caused 
him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A accepted my provisional decision. He said that AWPs handling of his claim was a 
major contributor to his frustration and that the complaint correspondence hed received from 
AWP fell way below any kind of satisfactory level. He said hed bought his home emergency 
policy as part of his home insurance cover so that the policies would integrate seamlessly, 
which he said hadnt been the case. 
AWP didnt provide a response, despite being given a reasonable amount of time within 
which to do so.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As response didnt provide any new information or arguments material to my provisional 
outcome that Id not already considered when arriving at provisional decision. And AWP 
didnt respond to my provisional decision. So Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in line 
with my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint. I instruct AWP P&C SA to pay Mr A:£176.40 as set out in his plumbers invoice dated 29 August 2020, less any relevant 
excesses;
8% simple interest on the £176.40 amount less relevant excesses calculated from 
the 29 August 2020;
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience AWP P&C SA caused Mr A, 
which AWP P&C SA must pay to Mr A within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman