DRN-3295748
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC stopped offering borrowing to customers. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr K contacted Barclays for information about how much he could 
borrow. Barclays advised that, due to the pandemic, it had removed the pre selected 
borrowing limits offered to customers and stopped offering unsecured lending. Barclays said 
it was only offering loans of up to £2,000 to key workers at that time. 
Mr K complained and Barclays sent him a final response but didnt agree it had made a 
mistake. Barclays said lending was subject to availability and that when personal borrowing 
limits were reinstated theyd be shown in its app. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclays had dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr K 
asked to appeal and said he wanted confirmation Barclays lending approach applied to all 
customers. Mr K said that, as a longstanding customer of Barclays, he should be able to rely 
on it for help. Mr K also asked when Barclays position would change. As Mr K asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr K wanted the help of his bank to borrow money. And I can understand why 
he was concerned when pre selected borrowing limits that had previously been available 
were withdrawn. But Barclays is free to decide whether to lend in line with its commercial 
discretion. 
In this case, Barclays says that it took the decision to withdraw personal borrowing for 
customers during the pandemic. As a result, it wasnt open to new applications and the pre 
selected borrowing limits were removed. Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but Im satisfied thats 
a decision its entitled to make. 
Mr K recently told us that hes checked Barclays online banking facility and found the pre 
selected offers are still absent. I cant tell Mr K when Barclays will change its criteria again. 
As Barclays said, if pre selected offers become available theyll show on Mr Ks online 
banking facility. 
Mr K has told us hes a long standing customer and should be able to rely on Barclays for 
support. I understand Mr Ks view but, as Ive noted above, businesses can decide what 
products to offer existing or new customers in line with their commercial discretion. I havent 
been persuaded that Barclays acted unfairly by withdrawing new lending applications. 
Barclays final response to Mr K confirms its policy relates to all customers. The only lending 
it was seeking to offer at the point of issuing the final response were loans to key workers. 
Im satisfied Barclays has confirmed its position in its final response.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but as Im satisfied Barclays has dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman