DRN-3055542
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr P bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Clydesdale, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they wouldnt have been if the loan 
had been repaid over its original term. However, Mr P paid off the loan after about four 
months, which meant he paid about £4,500 less than he wouldve done under the loans 
original repayment schedule.
Clydesdale didnt make an offer of settlement. It said that the amount Mr P actually paid for 
the solar panels was less than the financial benefit he would get from the solar panels over 
ten years  so because hed paid the loan off early and saved on interest, Mr P had ensured 
the solar panels were in this case self-funding as the seller originally promised.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Clydesdales 
calculations were reasonable and that in this case, given what Mr P actually paid, the solar 
panels were self-funding. And as such they didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr P 
disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like these our usual approach if there has been a misrepresentation is to tell the 
business to recalculate the loan so that the consumer pays no more than the benefits theyll 
receive from the solar panels over the full term of the loan. Here there appears to have been 
a misrepresentation and Clydesdale considered making an offer in line with our approach. 
However, when Clydesdale did the calculations it found that no refund was due to Mr P, 
because hed paid less for the solar panels than the benefit hed receive over ten years. 
Having looked at Clydesdales calculations, Im satisfied that it has followed our approach. 
And that Mr P has paid less (in total loan repayments including interest) than the benefit he 
is likely to receive over ten years. By paying the loan off early, Mr P has avoided the losses 
he wouldve suffered if the loan had run to its full term. I hope he finds this reassuring, albeit 
he may be disappointed not to be receiving any compensation. 
So, Ive found there is no loss to be redressed in this case. As such, I have decided not to 
make any award. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman