DRN-2069209
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a car and cosmetic insurance funded by BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
What happened
In 2017 Mr B saw a promotion from a local dealer which offered free servicing on new cars. 
He acquired one, funded by a finance agreement with BMWFS but when he had it serviced 
he was charged for that work. He complained to the dealer and BMWFS. His complaints 
were rejected.
On the day he collected the car he was also sold cosmetic damage insurance. He also took 
out two other insurance products. These were funded by a separate zero percent finance 
agreement with BMWFS. The car suffered minor damage when hit by another, but when Mr 
B enquired about a claim he was the damage was too extensive to be covered by the policy. 
Mr B cancelled the payments for finance used to fund the policy
After his complaints were rejected Mr B brought the matter to this service. It was considered 
by one of out investigators who didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He noted that Mr 
B had received a discount of £3,328.56 and the dealer had explained that having given him 
a significant price reduction he wasnt given the free service pack. It explained d that most of 
the purchasers during the free servicing promotion didnt benefit from it as they negotiated a 
better overall deal. Our investigator took the view that Mr B had obtained a significantly 
better deal than if he had been given the free servicing.
On the matter of the cosmetic insurance policy our investigator concluded that it was likely 
Mr B hadnt been given a copy of the policy. However, the dealer had explained this was 
available through its online portal. Overall our investigator didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to show the policy had been misrepresented. 
He didnt believe Mr B had acted reasonably in cancelling his direct debit to BNWFS which 
had provided the funding without taking steps to cancel the policy. He accepted that Mr B 
hadnt been aware which insurer provided the policy, but it was open to him to enquire with 
either the dealer or BMWFS,
BMWFS wasnt responsible for the policy and he didnt believe it had done anything wrong in 
seeking payment of the outstanding money. Mr B didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the advert referring to free servicing would have been an inducement for Mr B 
to visit the dealer. But such a promotion does not form a contract and once he had met with 
the dealer, he clearly negotiated what appears to have been a good deal, saving over 
£3,300. That deal didnt include the free servicing. Mr B says he wasnt told this and presumed that it did. I have looked at the sales invoice and I can see no reference to a 
service pack and while I can understand Mr B made an assumption, I dont consider I can 
say he was misled.
Obviously, I cannot say what was discussed in any detail and what was said, if anything 
about the servicing, but I believe Mr B was more than capable of reading and understanding 
the contract he signed and he had the opportunity to identify no reference to a service pack. 
Nor can I say that had he been aware of it that he would not have proceeded with the 
purchase. I suspect that he would have recognised the savings he had made on the price 
and accepted the loss of free serving worth just over £600 as reasonable.
On the matter of the insurance policy I gather Mr B took this up on the day he collected the 
car. He may well not have paid close attention to the details of the policy and I can accept he 
didnt get a copy. The dealer says it was available, but I would have expected it to have been 
clearly drawn to his attention. I cannot say what information was given, but it seems Mr B 
presumed it would cover the damage done to his car by an unknown third party. However, it 
seems this damage went beyond what was described as cosmetic in the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
That is unfortunate, but I cannot say the policy was mis-sold on the information I have seen. 
Furthermore, I cannot say that Mr B was right to simply stop making payments to BMWFS 
for the loan he took out to fund three policies because he didnt want to keep one of them. It 
was open to him to stop the policy with the insurer. He may have had to ask some questions 
of either BMWFS or the dealer before doing so, but I dont think would have been onerous.
Finally, I note that Mr B thought BMWFS should stop asking him to pay his arrears while he 
made his complaint. It wasnt obliged to do so and if I had found in his favour any money 
overpaid would have been returned with interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman