DRN-3090144
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, have made a number of 
errors administering their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had an existing mortgage with Halifax. They applied to port the mortgage to a 
new property.
Halifax has provided a copy of the mortgage offer it issued in October 2020 in respect of this 
application. This offer was based on Mr and Mrs A borrowing £83,000 over a term of five 
years.
As part of the application to port Mr and Mrs As solicitors requested a redemption figure 
from Halifax. Halifax sent a redemption figure to the solicitors on 2 November 2020. It said 
that, assuming the mortgage was repaid on 6 November 2020 the total amount due was 
£84,397.01. This was made up of an outstanding balance of £81,941.73 and an early 
repayment charge (ERC) of £2,455.28. For every day after 6 November 2020, £6.01 of 
interest needed to be added to the figure for the outstanding balance.
Mr and Mrs As monthly mortgage payment was collected by direct debit on 
2 November 2020. This was not factored into the redemption figure provided.
Halifaxs records show that it received a payment of £81,959.76 from Mr and Mrs As 
solicitors on 9 November 2020. This being the outstanding balance plus three days interest. 
It did not include a payment for the ERC as Mr and Mrs A disputed this was due, as they 
were porting their mortgage.
Also, on 9 November 2020 Mr and Mrs A made a lump sum payment of £8,000. Theyve 
said that this was intended to be credited to their new mortgage account. But it was sent to 
their old mortgage by mistake.
Mr and Mrs A contacted Halifax to ask what had happened to the £8,000 overpayment and 
their contractual monthly repayment from 2 November 2020, as they couldnt see that these 
had been credited to their account. They also complained that the ERC should not have 
been applied and also said that the amount advanced under their new mortgage, which was 
now in place, should not have been £83,000 and should in fact have been approximately 
£80,500.
Halifax refunded an amount of £7,134.23 directly to Mr and Mrs As solicitors as it said their 
old mortgage had been overpaid by that amount.
There was then a great deal of correspondence back and forth between Halifax and Mr and 
Mrs A. In summary, Halifax agreed that it couldve handled matters better. The £7,134.23 
was paid back to Mr and Mrs A on 22 January 2021. And an ERC refund of £2,409.56 was 
paid to them on 17 January. Meaning the total amount returned to them was £9,543.79.
Halifax agreed that, without the administrative errors theyd encountered, Mr and Mrs As 
new mortgage shouldve been reduced by this amount in November 2020. So, it said if 
Mr and Mrs A still wanted to pay this amount, it would apply it to the mortgage and back date 
this to November 2020. Halifax also offered Mr and Mrs A £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs A made a payment of £9,548.93 on 27 January 2021. This was backdated by 
Halifax, resulting in an interest recalculation and refund of just over £69.
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy with Halifaxs actions. They were unhappy with how long it 
took for this recalculation to happen and that it couldnt provide them evidence that satisfied 
them the adjustments had all been carried out correctly and that the payments they made to 
their old mortgage were all accounted for. So, they asked our service to consider the 
complaint. They also still believed that the amount advanced after the mortgage ported was 
incorrect and that, as a result, their monthly payments were wrong.
One of our Investigators looked into matters. They explained that our service are not 
auditors but, based on the available information, he was satisfied that Halifax had done what 
it said it would and the mortgage had now been correctly updated. He also felt that the £400 
offered by Halifax for the distress caused by the poor service it had given, was fair. 
Mr and Mrs A did not agree with our investigators opinion. They were unhappy Halifax could 
not provide evidence to satisfy them the account had been correctly reconstructed and that 
we could not compel it to do so. They also didnt agree that the offer made by Halifax was 
fair so asked for their case to be reviewed. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id start by saying our service is an informal dispute resolution service. We are not a 
regulator nor are we an auditor. Our role is to consider disputes and decide them on a fair 
and reasonable basis 
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Halifax hasnt provided information in the format that they 
want so that they can satisfy themselves that the issues here have been resolved. While it is 
unfortunate the information Halifax has been able to provide isnt satisfactory to Mr and 
Mrs A, I dont think I can reasonably require it to provide something that it doesnt have  if 
the information that is available is enough for me to fairly decide the complaint. Im satisfied 
that I can do so based on the information Ive seen, so, while I know this may come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, I wont be asking Halifax to provide this in a different 
format.
As Ive said our service are not auditors, but I have reviewed the available information to 
decide if I think there are any obvious errors with how the accounts have been managed.
Halifax sent Mr and Mrs As solicitors a redemption statement, based on the mortgage being 
repaid in full on 6 November 2020. The statement included an ERC. Mr and Mrs A say this 
should not have been charged as they were porting their mortgage. And indeed, the 
payment their solicitors made didnt cover the ERC.
The redemption statement explains if Mr and Mrs A were completing a simultaneous sale 
and purchase, and is taking all of their existing loan and product rates to their new mortgage 
Halifax would waive the ERC and it could be deducted from the amount to be paid. Halifax has said where the two did not happen simultaneously, an ERC is charged, but will be 
refunded at a later point if the process is completed within a set time. Which is standard 
practice within the mortgage industry. 
The information Ive seen indicates the redemption of the old mortgage and the new 
mortgage being put in place didnt in fact happen on the same day. So, I dont agree with 
Mr and Mrs A that Halifax was wrong to mention or charge the ERC here. But as Ill explain, 
Im satisfied that this has in any event been addressed.
The redemption statement issued by Halifax explained that £84,397.01 needed to be paid to 
clear the mortgage in full, if this was done one 6 November 2020. For every day after that a 
further £6.01 needed to be added to that total.
Mr and Mrs A paid their contractual monthly repayment of £1,548.93 on 2 November 2020  
the same day the redemption statement was generated. Im satisfied that this payment 
wasnt accounted for in the redemption figure so, when it was made, contributed towards 
paying the amount due. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr and Mrs As solicitors paid Halifax £81,959.76 on 9 November 
2020. Mr and Mrs A quoted a slightly lower figure than this as having been paid, but it 
appears their solicitor accounted for the three days additional interest when making the 
payment.
And Ive seen evidence that Mr and Mrs A made a payment of £8,000 on the same day, 
although this doesnt appear to have cleared to the account until the day after. This payment 
was apparently intended for the new mortgage but was applied to the old one.
What this means is that, by 10 November 2020, £91,508.69 had been paid to the previous 
mortgage with Halifax. This was £7,111.68 more than the figure quoted in the redemption 
statement as being due on 6 November 2020. Or, taking into account the additional daily 
interest due, £7,087.64 more than the amount that was due by 10 November 2020, when all 
of the payments had cleared.
The completion of the new mortgage took place, within time for a refund of the ERC to also 
be made. The ERC quoted in the redemption statement was £2,455.28.
So, based on this, it appears Mr and Mrs A were potentially due £9,542.92 back  being the 
ERC plus the amount that theyd overpaid at the point all payments had cleared.
Halifax refunded £7,134.23 to Mr and Mrs As solicitors. It has said this, the payment being 
made to the solicitors, is standard practice where there is an overpayment on a mortgage 
being redeemed. And I dont think this is unreasonable. This sum was paid to Mr and Mrs A 
on 22 January 2021.
Halifax also paid £2,409.56 to their account on 14 January 2021  which it says was a 
refund of the ERC. This is lower than the amount quoted in the redemption statement. But 
from what Ive seen appears to actually coincide with the ERC that was in fact charged to the 
account.
In any event though, this means, in total Mr and Mrs A were refunded £9,543.79  marginally 
more than they were due. So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied on balance, that the 
contractual monthly repayment they made in November 2020 and the £8,000 overpayment 
are accounted for, and the correct amount was subsequently returned to Mr and Mrs A.
Halifax accepted that it had not handled things well and agreed that Mr and Mrs A could pay this amount towards the new mortgage and it would back date these payments as if they 
were applied in November 2020, at the point of the new mortgage beginning, and recalculate 
the balance. In the circumstances I think that offer was fair.
Mr and Mrs A made a payment of £9,548.93 to their mortgage on 27 January 2021. Halifax 
has said that it has backdated this payment and recalculated the account accordingly. And 
while I know Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with how it has shown this, Im satisfied that this did 
take place and the account was recalculated as Halifax said it would. Halifax has shown that 
this meant Mr and Mrs A had paid just over £69 more in interest than they would have if the 
payments had been applied in November 2020. And I can see that this was refunded to the 
mortgage in February 2021.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the steps Halifax has taken to put the 
mortgage right, were fair.
Mr and Mrs A have said that the amount advanced under their new mortgage and their 
contractual monthly repayments are incorrect. But from what Ive seen these were both in 
line with the mortgage offer issued by Halifax. And I havent seen anything to show that 
Halifax did not provide the amount quoted. So, I dont think it has made an error in respect of 
this issue.
Halifax has acknowledged that the overall service it provided was poor. And it did take a 
number of weeks for the issues with the mortgage to be put right. Halifax has already offered 
Mr and Mrs A £400 for the upset caused by this.
Mr and Mrs A have said that this doesnt reflect the time theyve expended trying to get to 
the bottom of things and doesnt reflect the distress caused. Theyve also argued that this 
was to address the problems up to 27 January 2021 and not delays since then.
The offer was made on 27 January 2021. But while Mr and Mrs A have said that this issue 
has remained unresolved for a significant time since then, the information Ive seen indicates 
that the alterations to the mortgage were completed a couple of weeks after this. Mr and 
Mrs A remained unhappy with the explanations given. But Im satisfied that Halifax had taken 
appropriate steps to resolve matters shortly after the offer was made. 
Having thought about everything, I do understand that this was upsetting for Mr and Mrs A. 
But again, Id reiterate we decide cases on a fair and reasonable basis and our role is not to 
fine or punish a business. In the circumstances, bearing in mind that Halifax did address the 
matter promptly and took steps to ensure Mr and Mrs A did not incur a financial loss by back 
dating transactions, I think the offer of £400 it has made here is fair and reasonable. So, I 
dont intend to require it to do any more. 
My final decisionBank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer, in addition to the recalculations it has already undertaken on 
the mortgage account, is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman