DRN-3870013
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has declined to fully refund the losses he incurred 
when he fell victim to an investment scam in 2020.
What happened
The parties here are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont recount these in 
detail here. But in brief, Mr R was tricked into sending two Faster Payments transfers from 
his Lloyds bank account.  He did so in the belief he was investing in a cryptocurrency-based 
investment scheme, but it later transpired he was dealing with scammers.
In March 2020, at around the time the UKs national lockdown began, Mr Rs employer of 
20 years shut down, and he became suddenly unemployed. He explains this had a 
particularly bad effect on him. He was approaching retirement age, had concerns about his 
pension provision, and had sadly become a widower a few years prior.
Having now unexpectedly lost his main income source, Mr R was looking for alternatives - 
and potentially somewhere to put his redundancy payment. 
He was interested in investing in cryptocurrency and having searched online, hed entered 
his contact details on a website to obtain more information. Mr R says he was subsequently 
called by several companies offering trading and advice. Mr R says they were all pushy and 
he didnt think all sounded legitimate. 
But one company (which Ill refer to as T) was different. It didnt pressure him and seemed to 
be wholly legitimate, even warning him about the risk of scam firms. 
T claimed to be regulated by a body which said it monitored cryptocurrency investment firms. 
Mr R says he dealt with a number of staff at T by phone, and each sounded professional and 
helpful. He felt comfortable dealing with T. 
Mr R decided to proceed. He sent an initial payment by credit card then, between April and 
June, three payments from his account held with a building society. He received a payment 
of £1,594 in July after the third transfer. At the time he believed this was a withdrawal from 
the profits on the payments hed made to that point. 
In September, Mr R made two payments from his Lloyds account  sums of £10,000 on 16 
September, and £16,177.22 on 29 September.
Both of these payments were international transfers to Slovakia. On both instances it 
appears Lloyds wrote to Mr R saying the payment had been returned unpaid and it would be 
resubmitting it. Apparently, this was due to the receiving bank only accepting non-urgent 
SEPA (Single European Payments Area) payments. These letters were dated 22 September 
and 5 October.
Mr R was given a link by T, which supposedly allowed him to view the progress of his 
investments. Initially this showed a large balance with significant profits. But not long after 
the final payment hed sent, the balance started to rapidly decrease. Mr R says at that point 
it had showed a supposed value of around $225,000 which rapidly reduced to zero without 
any obvious explanation. Mr R found he could no longer contact T. He realised this had not 
been genuine and that hed been the victim of a scam. 
Mr R reported the matter to Lloyds. Lloyds attempted to recover his funds, but this was not 
possible - in part because the payments had been sent internationally. Initially, Lloyds said it 
wasnt liable to refund Mr R at all. But the bank later reviewed this position and said it would 
refund the second (and larger payment) but not the first.
Mr R remained significantly out of pocket as a result. He asked this service to impartially 
review what had happened.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Rs complaint on 7 December 2022. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Rs complaint and offered 
both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the time.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. 
As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests 
with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud or scam - 
for example as part of an investment scam such as this was. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
customer even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank 
also has a duty to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud 
and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Lloyds should have 
been looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of 
character or unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial 
detriment to its customer. 
Here, the initial payment was significantly higher than the typical payments made by 
Mr R on his account. It was also being sent to a new payee  a recipient hed not paid 
before. And the payment was international, again not something typical for Mr R (it 
doesnt appear hed previously made an international payment from this account).
I think there was enough going on here that Lloyds ought reasonably to have considered 
this payment was one where there was a higher than usual risk it could lead to financial 
detriment to Mr R. As such, I think it is reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have 
intervened at the time to reassure itself that this payment wouldnt lead to financial loss 
for Mr R.
Had it done so and contacted Mr R, I have seen nothing to suggest that Mr R would 
have done other than truthfully respond to Lloyds questions about the payment. I think hed have told Lloyds he believed he was investing in a cryptocurrency-based scheme, 
and that he was dealing with T. Lloyds at that point could reasonably have asked what 
checks Mr R had conducted into T (such as checking the FCA website or register). Had 
such a check been carried out, the live warning about T on the FCA website would have 
come to light. I think this would likely have prompted Mr R to have second thoughts 
about proceeding, and ultimately, I think the payment would have been prevented, as 
would the subsequent payment.
Because Lloyds did not prevent this, I find it must share some of the responsibility here.
I have considered Lloyds argument that the payment being made from its account was 
not the ultimate source of the loss to the fraud. But I am not persuaded that this should 
alter my view on Lloyds share of the liability. Mr R has been unable to recover any of 
the funds that were sent to the cryptocurrency exchanges involved. Here, I find Lloyds 
ought to have identified that the funds would likely be lost through fraud. Mr R was the 
banks customer and was about to suffer financial harm. In the circumstances here, 
Lloyds ought reasonably to have taken steps to prevent this harm. I consider this reflects 
what could reasonably have been expected of Lloyds in light of good industry practice 
and awareness of cryptocurrency-based scams at the time. 
I have also considered whether Mr R should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising these two payments, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not 
appreciate what he was doing or the consequences of his actions. I am satisfied there 
was no contributory negligence on this occasion, he was simply the unwitting and 
blameless victim of a clever scam. The bank was the professional in financial matters; 
Mr R was a vulnerable layperson. 
Putting things right
Given the above, I am currently minded to find it fair and reasonable that Lloyds should:
 refund the money that Mr R lost as a result of the scam  less any amounts that have 
already been paid or recovered from the receiving accounts; and,
 pay Mr R interest on that amount at 8% simple from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement - less any tax lawfully deductible.
In my provisional decision, I asked both sides to provide any further arguments or 
information by 20 December 2022, after which point, I said I would issue my final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R responded to my provisional decision saying he had nothing further to add and 
accepted the proposed outcome.
However, while the deadline for responses has now elapsed, Lloyds has not replied to my 
provisional conclusions.
In light of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings and the resolution I proposed in my provisional decision as quoted above, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I 
find it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that Mr R should now be refunded for his 
losses due to the scam by Lloyds Bank PLC. Lloyds Bank PLC should now:
refund the remaining money that Mr R lost to the scam from his Lloyds account  
less any amounts that have already been paid or recovered from the receiving 
accounts, within 28 days of receiving confirmation of his acceptance of this decision; 
and,
 pay Mr R interest on that amount at 8% simple per year from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement - less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman