DRN-3602843
The complaint
T, a charity, complains that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc declined its business 
interruption insurance claim, made for losses relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the relevant events to date. T operates as 
a church and held two separate policies underwritten by Ecclesiastical. The current 
complaint relates to the policy covering the church itself. T has also complained about 
Ecclesiastical in relation to the second policy, covering the church centre, but this has been 
dealt with separately.
The policy T held that is relevant to this complaint related to the main church building and 
provided a number of areas of cover, including for loss of income. Ive referred to this cover 
as being for business interruption as the loss of income relates to an interruption of insured 
business. In March 2020, T was forced to close its premises for most activities. T contacted 
Ecclesiastical to claim for its losses.
Ecclesiastical declined the claim. It said the cover provided by the Prevention of access  
Non-damage extension to the business interruption section of the policy contained a carve 
out (exclusion) relating to claims caused by an infectious disease. And the Specified Disease 
cover was limited to a specific list of diseases that did not include COVID-19. So, this did not 
cover the claim either. 
T was unhappy with this and brought its complaint to this service. However, our Investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She agreed with Ecclesiasticals reasoning and 
said it had acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. 
T remained unsatisfied and so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on T, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover T is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy T took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ts policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ts business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ts claim. And I think 
Ecclesiastical acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ts claim under this area of cover.
The policy does include two extensions which do not require there to be damage and look 
like they might be relevant. I will explain why neither of these actually covers the 
circumstances of Ts claim.
Prevention of access  Non-damage
This extension provides cover for, in part:
Access to or use of the premises being prevented or hindered by
(a) any action of government, police or a local authority due to an emergency which 
could endanger human life or neighbouring property
This would seem to fit the circumstances around the Governments actions in relation to the 
pandemic where these had a relevant impact on a business. However, these actions were 
taken to control the spread of COVID-19, an infectious disease. And the policy goes on to 
say the extension does not cover:
Closure or restriction in the use of the premises due to the order or advice of the 
competent local authority as a result of an occurrence of an infectious disease
This wording refers to the actions of a competent local authority, and I note the relevant 
actions were those of the Government. However, the wording used in this policy was 
considered by the High Court in the FCA Test Case (The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm)). In coming to my decision, I 
am required to take into account, amongst other things, the relevant law and the parts of this 
judgment that were not appealed currently constitute case law that I consider relevant. 
The judgment says at paragraphs 375 to 376 that, in the context of this policy wording:
the phrase competent local authority means whichever authority is competent to 
impose the relevant restrictions in the locality on the use of the premises, including 
central government.

The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local 
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an 
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under 
either [Ecclesiastical] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of 
the premises.
T has made a number of comments about this judgment and has requested that our Service 
seeks clarification from the courts on the relevant points. However, not only is our Service an 
alternative to the courts, I consider that I am able to reach my decision on this complaint 
without such clarification. T has said that the exclusion only applies prior to 23 March 2020, rather than to claims 
relating to a period after this. It has referred to the comments of the court in this judgment 
and the related declarations, including declaration 16.3. However, this declaration is merely 
confirming when the court considered there to have been a restriction on the access or use 
of the premises. 
In order to be able to claim under this clause, T would need to firstly show that there were 
actions of a relevant authority that hindered or prevented access/use of the premises. The 
declaration made was that this would not be possible prior to 23 March 2020. Depending on 
the circumstances, the findings of Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case on the 
need for relevant restrictions to have legal force, may mean that it is possible to demonstrate 
a relevant restriction on the premises prior to this date. But, whichever date is relevant for 
this purpose, once a relevant restriction has been identified it is then necessary to consider 
whether any exclusion is applicable. As the exclusion can only be relevant once the initial 
cover has been established, the exclusion would only be applicable after the relevant date 
(be this 23 March or otherwise).
T has also referred to comments the court of the first instance that there may be some doubt 
over whether the exclusion applies to all circumstances. However, I do not agree that this 
means there is cover in the circumstances of Ts claim. Firstly, the FCA test case was 
designed not only to consider the specific policies involved, but also to consider related 
aspects that might be relevant to other policies  such as a policy similar to Ts, but without 
the exclusion. Secondly, I consider that the circumstances of Ts claim do mean the 
exclusion applies. Given the courts finding that, in relation to this policy, it was a competent 
local authority that introduced the restrictions relevant to Ts premises, and that these 
restrictions were introduced as a result of an infectious disease, I consider that the exclusion 
applies to this claim. 
Taking this into account, and considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I think 
Ecclesiastical were entitled to say that this extension did not cover the circumstances of Ts 
claim.
Specified disease
The Specified disease murder food poisoning defective sanitation vermin (Specified 
Disease) extension in Ts policy provides cover for interruption caused by the occurrence of 
a specified disease either at the insureds premises or within 25 miles of those premises.
However, the extension defines specified disease with a list of certain diseases. And this 
list does not include COVID-19. So, I do not think it covers a claim resulting from this 
disease.
When reaching this finding, Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Ecclesiastical to include it in 
the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think Ecclesiastical intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all 
diseases. Ecclesiastical deliberately chose to define specified disease by reference to a 
static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, depending on the circumstances, provide cover for a claim relating to COVID-19. But this is 
not the type of policy T had.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy T had is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of specified disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
Again, T has made some points in relation this type of clause and that it was not included in 
the FCA test case. However, my consideration of this complaint has involved thinking about 
all relevant circumstances  including all relevant law. And whilst the FCA test case itself did 
not include a consideration of clauses of this nature, this is not the only relevant court case. 
Of particular relevance here are comments in the judgment of Singapore Airlines Ltd & Anr v 
Buck Consultants Ltd [2011] EWHC 59 (Ch), as more recently reference by the courts in 
relation to a COVID-19 related case in Rockliffe Hall Limited v Travelers Insurance Company 
Limited [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm).
The Judge in Singapore Airlines said, at paragraph 19:
Definitions in statutes and deeds can be exhaustive or non-exhaustive. Non-
exhaustive definitions are usually prefaced by the word include. More often, 
however, a definition is intended to be exhaustive and it will then generally begin with 
the word mean or means. It is difficult to read a definition which begins with the 
word means as other than exhaustive.
The definition of specified disease in Ts policy begins with means. And taking these 
comments into account, as well as the other circumstances of the complaint, I am unable to 
conclude the list provided is anything but exhaustive. 
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ts claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Ts policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Ecclesiasticals decision to decline the claim 
was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Ecclesiastical should have met Ts claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for T, but I hope Ive provided it and its trustees with a thorough explanation of 
why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman