DRN-4223312
The complaint
Mr L has complained that TSB Bank Plc didnt credit his bank account with £200 that he 
says he deposited in branch.
Mr L is being represented by Mr A. But for ease, Ill refer to Mr L throughout this decision.
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 13 December 2022 Mr L says he deposited £200 at a counter of a TSB branch.  
In January 2023, Mr L contacted TSB after noticing the £200 missing from his bank 
statement. TSB said there was no evidence of the deposit being made and no errors in the 
account balances at the branch in question. It said Mr L had made a cash withdrawal of 
£100 on 13 December 2022, but no deposits, and that this was supported by CCTV 
evidence from the branch. TSB accepted it had delayed investigating Mr Ls case and paid 
him £35 in recognition of that delay. 
Mr L maintained he had made the £200 deposit. He said the information he had received 
from TSB as part of its investigation, specifically in relation to CCTV footage, was 
inconsistent. He wanted TSB to credit him the £200 as well as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience the situation had caused him. 
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr L said TSB had relied on testimonies, not evidence that the deposit wasnt made  
particularly in relation to the CCTV footage and TSBs claim there were no account balance 
errors. He also felt TSB was withholding evidence. 
Mr L also questioned why he wouldve made false allegations to TSB about depositing the 
£200 given he had a healthy account balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr L and Id like to assure him I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Mr L that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive 
focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the significance of the 
£200 to him. But I need to look at things objectively. Essentially, I can only tell TSB to credit 
the disputed £200 if the evidence supports that it was deposited by Mr L.
Mr L has explained to us that he visited the branch on 13 December 2022 with his 
granddaughter to deposit the cash  but that he attended the counter alone. So, 
unfortunately, theres no one who can corroborate Mr Ls version of events. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ls bank statement from December 2022 and there is no reference to 
a deposit being made for £200 on 13 December 2022. Nor is there any reference to such a 
deposit prior to, or shortly after, the 13 December 2022. Mr L has also told us he didnt 
receive a receipt for the deposit. So, there isnt any documentary evidence of the £200 
deposit having been made.
I can also see from the bank statement that Mr L made a withdrawal for £100 on 13 
December 2022  and this supports the CCTV evidence referred to by TSB showing Mr L 
being given cash, not handing it over, whilst at the branch counter. Unfortunately, the CCTV 
footage is no longer available, so Im unable to fully substantiate what it showed. But I can 
see the £100 withdrawal is evident from TSBs internal records. 
I can also see from those records that Mr L made two further cash withdrawals, each for 
£100, via ATMs on 29 December 2022 and 16 January 2023. Those withdrawals are 
correctly showing on Mr Ls bank statements. In addition, TSB has also confirmed there 
were no discrepancies in the branchs end of day or end of year cash balance and has 
provided evidence to support that. This is all suggests to me that theres been no obvious 
banking error here. 
I appreciate the points Mr L has made about being given conflicting information by TSB 
about the CCTV footage. But as the footage is no longer available, Im unable to fully 
substantiate what that footage showed. 
But the evidence I have seen, aside from the CCTV footage, strongly supports that Mr L 
didnt deposit £200 on 13 December 2022. So, I dont have a fair basis on which to tell TSB 
to credit the disputed £200. Nor can I ask TSB to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when there is no evidence TSB has made a mistake in relation to the 
deposit.
This is a difficult message for me to give as I know how strongly Mr L feels about this matter. 
But given the evidence I have, and on the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion. 
TSB accepts it took too long to investigate Mr Ls concerns and provide him with an 
outcome. But it has paid him £35 to reflect that. I consider that to be a fair and reasonable 
level of compensation for the impact the delay had on Mr L, and in line with what Id have 
awarded had TSB not made an offer.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask TSB to credit £200 to Mr L. 
So, Im not going to tell TSB to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint in this case. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman