DRN-1471742
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that he's unable to take advantage of the 'mutual benefits' that Wesleyan 
Assurance Society offers to its members. 
What happened
Wesleyan offers the mutual benefits to its members in the form of a discount on its insurance 
products. At the time Mr S made the complaint the benefit was a 15% discount, with a £50 
minimum. As I understand it, the benefit has changed slightly for 2020 and is now a 20% 
discount. The discounts can be applied to multiple personal and commercial policies, if the 
member holds more than one.
The crux of Mr S' complaint is that even with the discount applied Wesleyan's prices exceed 
quotes for insurance that he's able to obtain from other providers. As such, he feels there is 
no advantage to him to using Wesleyan to meet his insurance needs. He's said that as his 
circumstances mean that his premiums are generally lower than average, a percentage 
discount is of less value than for those members whose premiums are higher. Mr S has 
contrasted this situation with Wesleyan's former mutual benefits offer, which was a fixed sum 
of money.  
In response to Mr S' complaint Wesleyan explained that the mutual benefits were offered at 
its discretion, as an additional benefit that it acknowledged might not be something that all 
members could or would take advantage of.  
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator reached a similar 
conclusion to Wesleyan. In brief, he concluded that the mutual benefits weren't guaranteed 
in any way and highlighted that Mr S, as a with profits policyholder with Wesleyan, effectively 
benefited from a share of the society's profits via that route.  
Mr S remained unhappy, reiterating that he expected to be able to share in the profit of the 
mutual society and that it was the manner in which Wesleyan chose to redeem these that he 
took issue with. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it's important to first point out that the 'mutual benefits' offered by Wesleyan aren't 
intended to be a mechanism by which the society shares profits. Mr S has referred to the 
benefits as 'dividends', but I don't think that accurately reflects the intended purpose of the 
mutual benefits. The benefits are an additional, discretionary offer that Weslayan makes available to its 
members. The form of this offer has changed over the years and, as I understand it, is under 
regular review. For instance, I note the change implemented for 2020. 
I appreciate that the current form of mutual benefit may not be as advantageous for Mr S 
personally as the previous cash sum offer was. But the multiple percentage discount will be 
advantageous for some members, just as the previous method of a one-off cash sum was 
advantageous for Mr S. 
I don't think that Wesleyan is acting unfairly by currently choosing to structure its mutual 
benefits as it is now, any more than it was when it offered a cash sum that would be worth 
less to some members. The purpose of the offer is not to ensure that Wesleyan provides the 
cheapest insurance in the market. Rather, it's a mechanism through which it can show its 
appreciation to customers who choose to be members of its mutual society.  
In respect of sharing in Wesleyan's profits, Mr S does benefit from doing so, by way of being 
invested in the society's with profit fund. As I've mentioned, as a mutual society Wesleyan 
doesn't issue dividends, as it has no shareholders. Its profits are shared with investors by 
way of bonuses added to with profits policies. These bonuses aren't guaranteed - they 
depend upon the level of profits that Wesleyan makes from its investments and other areas 
of its business. But they do mean that Mr S is sharing in Wesleyan's profits, with the 'mutual 
benefits' offer being a separate mechanism with a separate purpose. 
So, in summary, I'm satisfied that Wesleyan is acting fairly in offering its mutual benefits as it 
does. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman