DRN-4270939
The complaint
Mrs Es representative complains on her behalf that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly 
decided liability on a claim made on her Motor insurance policy before any investigation took 
place. 
References to Mrs E, or her representative, will include the other.
UKI are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the intermediary. As UKI have accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
intermediary, in my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of the intermediary. 
What happened
A third-party collided with the front of Mrs Es car causing damage. Mrs E called UKI and 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
After the call UKI informed Mrs E by text message (SMS) that it intended to settle the claim 
as 50/50 split liability between her and the driver of the vehicle that reversed into her car.
Mrs Es representative said the fault was that of the driver of the other car and they had 
admitted fault when the incident took place. The representative said UKI gave no 
explanation of its position to settle the claim this way.
UKI said it was still in the process of carrying out a review of the claim and the 
circumstances of the incident. It said the SMS was to manage Mrs Es expectations. 
As Mrs Es representative was not happy with UKI, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said they were 
satisfied UKI had considered all information relating to the incident as it became available. 
And Mrs Es policy allows UKI to settle the claim how it chooses.
As Mrs Es representative is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is to consider whether UKI handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It 
isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term which allows the insurer to handle the claim 
how it sees fit. In this case I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. On page 27 it 
says;
3. Claims procedure  Our rights and your obligations
b. We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name, 
or in the name of any other person covered by this policy;
This is not unusual and is a feature of most motor insurance policies. This term essentially 
gives UKI a contractual right to settle the claim how it chooses. It doesnt need the 
agreement or consent of the policyholder.
But just because the term is in the policy, it is not fair and reasonable for an insurer to simply 
do as it pleases. The decision has to be based on facts and evidence.
I listened to the call made by Mrs E to UKI when she notified it of the incident. The UKI 
advisor opened the call by asking if Mrs E was calling to make a new claim, to which she 
answered yes.
During the call the UKI advisor gathered information about the incident. The UKI advisor told 
Mrs E liability regarding the incident would be recorded as under investigation at the 
moment. When Mrs E questioned why liability was in question as the third-party had rolled 
into her car, UKIs advisor explained that the third-party had to also be given the opportunity 
to give their version of events. The UKI advisor explained if the third-party gave a different 
version of events there was a possibility of it being recorded as a claim against Mrs E, but 
hopefully not.
The UKI advisor offered to book Mrs Es car in for the repairs to be made but she said due to 
the excess on her policy, and as there was not a lot of damage, she would wait to decide if 
to progress with the claim for damage until liability had been agreed as that of the third-party.
I consider the UKI advisor was clear of the process for deciding liability in this claim and 
about the process for organising repairs.
I looked at the SMS that was sent to Mrs E on 29 September 2022. It said; 
Claim Update: We have reviewed your claim in detail and based on what you have told us 
we intend to settle this claim on 50/50 split basis. We have sent our views to the other 
insurer and will update you accordingly once we receive their response.
Mrs Es representative said the SMS was unfair and UKI did not discuss the implications of 
proceeding in the way it intended. I saw when Mrs E contacted UKI for an explanation 
regarding the SMS it said it was still waiting for the third-party insurers to give their version of 
events and it had still not made any decision on liability at that time. It  explained if there 
were any inconsistencies in the drivers statements it may not be able to prove who was as 
fault. It said the SMS was sent part of its service process and was to manage customer 
expectations.
I saw that after this SMS was sent and after Mrs Es representative contacted UKI, a further 
SMS update was sent which said; 
Claim Update: Your claim has been reviewed and we are still awaiting a response from the 
other insurer
I am sorry that Mrs E and her representative were unhappy with the SMS received and felt 
that a decision had been made without the incident being fully investigated. However, I am 
satisfied that at the point this SMS was sent to Mrs E, that UKI were still investigating the 
claim and a decision on liability had not yet been reached. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mrs Es complaint and do not require UKI to do anything further in 
this case.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman