DRN-3384006
The complaint
Mr B complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr B was given a loan by Everyday Loans. It was for £4500 and was due to be repaid over 
48 months. Mr B took this loan out in October 2016 and the monthly repayment would be 
£289.44.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 February 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Everyday Loans gathered some information from Mr B before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr 
B about his income and expenditure. It says it verified his income by checking bank 
statements and used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess his living expenses. 
It carried out a credit check and used this to work out his credit commitments. It also looked 
through the bank statements it had already gathered in general.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Loans. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of four years for £289.44. This represented a sizable 
proportion of Mr Bs monthly income. So, I think it is right that Everyday Loans wanted to 
gather, and independently check (regarding his income and through the credit search), some 
detailed information about Mr Bs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I 
think that the checks it did achieved that aim. I think on balance its checks were 
proportionate. It was Mr Bs first loan with Everyday Loans and based on his circumstances I 
think it gathered enough information in order to inform its decision to lend. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Everyday Loans gathered from Mr B to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to 
be given the loan.
I can see that Everyday Loans had verified Mr Bs income to be £1097.63. It has explained 
recently that it calculated this figure based on averaging out a number of Mr Bs paydays (he 
was paid every fortnight). It recorded down his rent to be £50 (it says Mr B told it he was 
living at home) and after it took into consideration his credit commitments and the loan 
repayment, it could see that his disposable income would be around £180 after he paid off 
two short-term loans with some of the capital of the loan, something he told Everyday Loans 
he would do. I have checked the credit search results that Everyday Loans would have had 
in front of it. The results supported Mr Bs declarations about his credit commitments and 
also did not show any impairments. The bank statements also showed that Mr B was 
running his personal account fairly well and there were no transactions that ought to have 
given Everyday Loans concerns. From the information it gathered from its checks, I think it 
would have been apparent to Everyday Loans that the loan was affordable, albeit Mr Bs 
monthly disposable income was fairly tight. There was nothing that it would have had in front 
of it that would have shown it Mr B was struggling to manage his finances. Or anything that 
would have given it concerns that he couldnt repay the loan in a sustainable way.
So, overall, I am currently minded to think Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks. 
In addition, with the information it had in front of it, I think it also made a fair decision to lend. 
So, I dont think Everyday Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mr B.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Everyday Loans did not respond. Mr B responded and raised 
some additional points. 
Mr B says he does not agree with my findings and is disappointed I didnt agree with the 
investigator. He says the investigator mentioned how Everyday Loans had calculated his 
income wrong, but this was not mentioned. He says the loan effectively tripled his overall 
debt when his income was low. He asks why it wouldnt have been better for Everyday 
Loans to advise him to pay off his short-term loans as this would have taken less time to 
repay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says in his most recent submission that the investigator mentioned how Everyday 
Loans calculated his income incorrectly, but I did not mention this within my provisional 
decision. So, I have looked into this again. 
Everyday Loans clarified to our service before I issued a provisional decision, how it 
calculated Mr Bs income. It explained that it used a figure based on averaging out several 
of Mr Bs fortnightly paydays. When it did this it says it verified Mr Bs monthly income to be 
£1097.63. And I used this figure also when I looked into Mr Bs complaint and I mentioned 
this within the provisional decision. 
When I read Everyday Loans explanation and also saw what it did do to gather information, 
I concluded on balance that it had carried out proportionate checks. I havent seen anything 
that changes my conclusion here. I think the checks it carried out were enough for it to be 
able to make a fair lending decision on this occasion. And with the information gathered I 
think it did. Albeit Mr Bs monthly disposable income was fairly tight, based on its 
calculations. But as I have concluded in my provisional decision, there was nothing that it 
would have had it front of it that would have shown Mr B was struggling to manage his 
finances. Or anything that would have given it concerns that he couldnt repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
Mr B asks if it would have been better for Everyday Loans to advise him to pay off the 
short-term loans instead. But on balance, I dont think it did anything wrong in agreeing to 
this loan. Everyday Loans was required to ensure that it made proportionate checks when 
it agreed to lend to Mr B and then make a fair lending decision. I think on balance, in the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, it did this.
With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman