DRN-4122036
The complaint
Mr S complains that his bank, Lloyds Bank PLC, unfairly closed his bank account with 
inadequate notice and failed on its agreement to remove late payment markers from all 
relevant credit files. 
What happened
Lloyds closed Mr Ss account when his regular payment towards the arrears wasnt made. It 
said this was in breach of its agreement with Mr S from April 2019 to pay off an overdraft, as 
explained in its arrangement letter. Mr S then paid the outstanding balance by other means.
Mr S said Lloyds demand for payment of the £1,390 he owed at short notice was unfair and 
possibly a breach of the regulations. He knew an overdraft can be cancelled, but in January 
2020 his bank account was closed immediately, though it wasnt in arrears and has since 
been paid off. Mr S said the account closure was unfair and in breach of the terms and 
conditions as he didnt receive any warning letters from Lloyds until the account was settled. 
Lloyds upheld Mr Ss complaint saying that his account had been closed in error and hed 
been told as long as he repaid his unarranged overdraft the account would remain open. 
Lloyds said it was arranging for his credit file to reflect the account has been settled and 
closed. Lloyds apologised and paid Mr S compensation.  
Mr S said the late payment markers, which Lloyds had previously agreed to remove, werent 
removed from all credit reference agencies, affecting his credit applications up until July 
2021. Mr S brought his further complaint to Lloyds. Lloyds said it sent the amendments to his 
credit file in November 2020 as previously notified to him. It said it hadnt demanded 
immediate payment of the debt but noted that Mr S had chosen to clear the account.
Mr S was dissatisfied with Lloyds response and referred his complaint to our service, He 
said Lloyds should compensate him for the problems and upset caused, including heartache, 
loss of his house, and loss of earnings because of the impact on his health. Mr S would like 
a refund of £1,390 he paid, and the fees incurred. Mr S wants Lloyds correct his credit file as 
originally promised by the bank. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said Lloyds had agreed to write 
to the credit reference agencies to amend Mr Ss credit file. He said Lloyds payment of £225 
compensation was fair for the poor service it had provided to Mr S. He later added that 
comments from Lloyds staff about Mr S were unprofessional and caused him upset and 
Lloyds should pay Mr S further compensation of £200.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the investigator response to his complaint, and he requested an 
ombudsman review his complaint. He said compensation should be at a higher rate for the 
time Lloyds took to correct his credit file. 
Lloyds also disagreed with the investigator. It said the recording of its call with Mr S should 
be addressed by the Information Commissioners Office and as this was part of Lloyds 
complaint handling wasnt an issue within our services jurisdiction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service has considered other complaints from Mr S about his bank account with Lloyds, 
specifically concerning bank charges, interest and other businesses. The present complaint 
concerns the closure of the account by Lloyds and late payment markers.
I have looked at the communication from Lloyds about the account closure. The terms and 
conditions of the account state that Lloyds will provide 60 days notice of the impending 
closure of an account to the customer. Mr S said this wasnt provided, but I have seen from 
Lloyds records that he was given notice as part of a formal demand for repayment in 
January 2020. And so I think Lloyds did communicate with Mr S about his account in 
accordance with the terms and conditions. 
Lloyds closed Mr Ss account following an income and expenditure examination of his 
financial situation. This is the check we expect lenders to carry out when considering the 
future arrangements for debt repayment. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to close the 
account due to the outcome of the income and expenditure exercise and how long it would 
take Mr S to clear the balance. And from Mr Ss own comment that he couldnt afford his 
overdraft. 
The expenditure exercise conducted by Lloyds showed that Mr S had a very limited ability to 
repay what was owed, and so by closing his account the inevitable further charges and 
interest were avoided. I dont think Lloyds decision to start the default process was 
unreasonable given the amount needed to repay, against the amount being repaid each 
month. Im pleased to see that Mr S was able to repay the account and open an account 
elsewhere, minimising the impact of the closure. However, I can see at the time he had 
difficulty in opening another account.
Mr S said he felt the debt had to be cleared in full by 11 January 2020 and this caused him 
great pressure and he felt blackmailed to do this. When the terms of the arrangement 
werent followed by Mr S Lloyds requested full repayment of the balance. As an alternative 
Lloyds suggested Mr S call and discuss his situation and make an income and expenditure 
check. Its letter gave details of debt advice services. I havent seen any evidence that Mr S 
was placed under duress to repay the account, but I can understand his feeling that this 
would be desirable. 
From the records I have seen Im satisfied that Lloyds had previously requested Mr Ss credit 
report be amended after it accepted some late payment markers were applied to his credit 
file incorrectly. However, it appears that Lloyds only corrected Mr Ss credit file in part at the 
time of his previous complaint in 2020. 
Mr S said he found the language used between Lloyds staff to describe him unpleasant. The 
call in question between Mr S and Lloyds involves questions about Lloyds actions towards 
his credit file, which he thought was uncorrected. As such, the call involves a regulated 
activity (the credit reference), and the comments are viewed as ancillary to this activity. It 
follows that this is something we can consider.
This call took place against the background of a stressful and worrying time for Mr S as he 
sought information about his credit status. Ive listened to the call and the remarks about his 
complaint that passed between Lloyds staff were unnecessary and seem unprofessional. 
Ive thought about compensation applicable to this call, the length of time it took Lloyds to correct Mr Ss credit file and some confused communications to Mr S about how and when 
the account would close as well as when his overdraft facility would be withdrawn. 
Putting things right
Having considered the complaint overall, I agree with the investigator that the further 
compensation of £200 he recommended Lloyds pay is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused Mr S. I have found that Lloyds new proposal to re-request 
amendments to Mr Ss credit file was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr S further compensation of £200 for his distress and 
inconvenience, as recommended by the investigator. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman