DRN-2717160
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) handling of a 
terminal illness claim made for his partner Miss K under their joint life assurance policy. Mr M 
is represented in this complaint by a solicitor, but to keep things simple Ill mostly refer to just 
Mr M.
What happened
In April 2004 Mr M and Miss K took out a joint life assurance policy in order to protect their 
mortgage. The policy provided life cover until the policy expiry date in April 2019. It also 
provided terminal illness cover but said this wasnt provided in the policys last eighteen 
months, which began in October 2017. 
In August 2017 Miss K was diagnosed with stage four non-small cell lung cancer with brain 
metastasis. She contacted L&G in March 2019 to make a terminal illness claim. Sadly, 
Miss K passed away in August 2019. 
In November 2019 Mr M submitted a data subject access request to L&G, as well as a 
complaint about how long the claim was taking and L&G saying the claim might be declined. 
In January 2020, L&G declined the claim because it said Miss K hadnt met the policys 
terminal illness definition prior to the last eighteen months of the policy. And in its final 
complaint response, L&G said its claim decision was correct but that it had made errors and 
caused delays by not always progressing the claim as it should have. L&G paid Mr M £750 
compensation for the distress those errors and delays caused him. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M used a solicitor to bring his complaint to our service. He wanted 
L&G to pay the terminal illness claim with interest, pay further compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, provide an apology letter, and reimburse his solicitor costs. Mr M provided a 
doctors letter which said Mr M suffered significant anxiety and depression following 
Miss Ks death and had also been affected by the lockdown and lost work income. And that 
the dispute with L&G compounded this and induced severe anxiety and depression in Mr M. 
Our investigator spoke to Mr M and L&G about this complaint. And they reached agreement 
on most of Mr Ms complaint points. So L&G paid the terminal illness claim in full to Mr M 
plus 8% simple interest. And it paid him a further £1,000 compensation and provided an 
apology letter. But agreement couldnt be reached about the solicitor costs Mr M wanted 
L&G to reimburse him for. Mr M said he wasnt able to pursue this complaint without his 
solicitor, because had severe anxiety and depression. And that he and his solicitor had 
needed to do very many hours of preparation work in bringing this complaint to our service. 
Regarding the solicitor costs, our investigator ultimately said a complaint could be brought to 
our service without a solicitor but Mr M had chosen to have one. So it wasnt fair to ask L&G 
to pay for Mr Ms solicitor costs. L&G accepted our investigators view. 
But Mr M disagreed, as he thought our investigator hadnt properly considered Mr Ms 
solicitor costs in the specific circumstances. Mr M said our service had the power to award 
these costs, and the mental health difficulties L&G caused him meant he was unable to 
pursue this complaint without a solicitor. He thought solicitor costs should be awarded in this 
particular and unusual complaint. As Mr M disagreed with our investigator about this, his 
complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by giving Mr M my condolences on his bereavement, and to say how sorry 
I am to hear of his own health difficulties. I dont doubt this has been, and continues to be, a 
very upsetting and difficult time for Mr M for a number of reasons. And I realise it is in these 
circumstances he has brought this complaint to us. 
Ive seen that Mr M and L&G are no longer in dispute regarding the claim settlement, interest 
amount, compensation for distress, and apology letter. And I understand L&G has paid the 
agreed amounts to Mr M and provided an apology letter. So theres no need for me to 
consider these points further. Whats left in dispute here is the matter of Mr Ms solicitor 
costs. 
Mr M says his mental health issues were caused by L&G and left him unable to pursue this 
complaint without a solicitor, and hes provided a doctors letter to support this. So hed like 
L&G to reimburse him £10,004 of solicitor costs. I acknowledge Mr M was left very unhappy 
with L&G claims decision and its response to his complaint. But I can see that in that 
response, L&G told Mr M he could refer his complaint to our service, free of charge. So L&G 
made clear what step Mr M could take next if he remained unhappy.
Mr M says he and his solicitor have had to do very many hours of work preparing to bring the 
complaint to our service. While I can understand why Mr M might have chosen to do that, it 
wasnt necessary. I say that because Mr M could have referred his complaint to our service 
simply by contacting us through a call, email or letter. And as part of our investigation 
process, we would have gathered whatever evidence we thought was needed from both 
parties, for example call recordings, claims notes, medical evidence and correspondence. 
I understand Mr M says he wasnt able to deal with this complaint given his mental health, 
which I note his doctor thinks was caused in part from this claim dispute, as well as by his 
bereavement and other reasons. But I dont think that means Mr Ms only option was to 
engage and pay for a solicitor. If Mr M didnt have a friend or family member he could ask to 
represent him in this complaint, then he could have asked a free of charge service such as 
Citizens Advice to represent him.
So while I can understand why Mr M chose to have a solicitor represent him in this 
complaint, it wasnt the only course of action open to him even given his very difficult 
circumstances and his frustration so far with L&G.  Instead, I think its fair to say it was his 
choice to engage a solicitor. And I dont think it would be fair for me to ask L&G to pay for 
that choice. Therefore Im not asking L&G to do anything further about Mr Ms solicitor costs, 
though I realise this will be a very great disappointment to him. 
Putting things right
Im not asking L&G to do anything further about Mr Ms solicitor costs. 
  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont require Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman