DRN-3417633
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way in which National Savings and Investments (NSI) handled a 
£25 premium bond prize which he won in June 2021.
What happened
Mr M routinely invests in premium bonds and, at the time of the events leading to this 
complaint, had a holding of more than £26,000. He has received several prizes over the past 
few years and is therefore familiar with NSIs processes. 
Premium bond holders can choose to receive prizes as a payment or to have them 
reinvested  that is, by having additional bonds added to their holding. Mr M had chosen to 
have any prizes reinvested.
Mr M won a £25 prize in the June 2021 draw. He did not however receive the money and no 
bonds were added to his holding. He contacted NSI, which acknowledged that the prize had 
not been paid. It said it would add £5 to Mr Ms holding and would pay him £50 by way of 
compensation. The reference to £5 was a typing error; the letter should have said £25. 
Mr M then received a further letter from NSI, saying that the £25 had been paid to his bank 
account. It gave the account details, but they were not for Mr Ms account. 
Mr M contacted NSI again. It acknowledged its further error and that the prize should have 
been added to Mr Ms premium bond holding. It added a further £25 to his holding, provided 
him with the 25 further bond numbers, and checked to see if any of them had won prizes 
from the date on which they should have been added. It said that they hadnt. 
Mr M referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought that, although NSI had made some errors, it had corrected them. He 
noted that Mr M had not cashed the £50 cheque which NSI had sent, but that it had sent a 
replacement. He did not recommend that NSI do any more. Mr M was not prepared to 
accept the investigators assessment, however, and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator did, and 
for similar reasons. 
There is no question that NSI made errors here. It should have added the June 2021 prize to 
Mr Ms holding, told him that it had done so and advised him of the new bond numbers. And 
it should not have told him that the prize had been paid to a bank account, still less to one 
which did not belong to him.
I am satisfied however that those errors have been corrected and that, as a result, Mr M is in 
the position he would have been in if NSI had handled things as it should have done in the 
first place. In saying that, I accept that NSI also checked that the new bond numbers would 
not have won any prizes if they had been added to Mr Ms holding at the correct time. 
Mr M has expressed concern that his prize money was paid to an account which was not his. 
In my view, however, it makes no difference to him whether that payment was made or not; 
he has received what he was entitled to from NSI. 
Mr M has also said that he thinks NSIs notifications should be in a different format, and he 
has referred to notifications he received on winning prizes in 2018. It is not however for me 
to tell NSI how it should tell people about their winnings. Im satisfied that, once it corrected 
its errors, NSI did tell Mr M clearly about his premium bond holdings. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require National Savings and 
Investments to do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman