DRN-2863330
The complaint
Mr G complains about the cash settlement amount offered by QIC Europe Ltd following an 
escape of water claim against his buildings insurance. 
Mr G wants QIC to increase the cash settlement amount. 
What happened
Mr G returned home in March 2020 to find damage had been caused by an escape of water. 
QIC employed a drying company who removed damaged items, but not all of them. Mr G 
was concerned having wet items in his home would delay the drying process. QIC said Mr G 
could remove further damaged items but hed need to keep these for assessment. 
Mr G called QIC in April 2020. He said he was told he could carry out strip out works and 
install a temporary kitchen for cooking facilities. QIC said the claim was still being validated 
at this point, but once complete, they would reimburse any reasonable costs Mr G incurred 
for cooking facilities. 
QIC created a scope of works for the claim-related damage and offered to carry out repairs. 
Mr G didnt think the scope of works was adequate, so he asked QIC to cash settle the 
claim. QIC said the cash settlement only included claim-related damage. They said Mr G 
had carried out extensive, unnecessary strip out works that werent authorised to parts of his 
home that werent damaged by the claim. And they hadnt included repairs for the strip out 
works. 
Mr G wasnt happy. He said QIC authorised strip out works and he did this to help progress 
the claim. He also said a local builder reviewed QICs scope of works and said the repairs 
required couldnt be achieved with the cash settlement amount offered. So, he raised a 
complaint. 
QIC issued their final response. They offered a cash settlement amount of £18,337.50 which 
they said reflected what it would have cost them to repair the claim-related damage under 
the policy. They maintained Mr G had carried out extensive strip out works without authority 
which wouldnt be covered. Mr G remained unhappy and approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and initially recommended it be upheld. 
Although she didnt agree QIC authorised the strip out works, she didnt think it was fair for 
Mr G to be disadvantaged by not having all the claim-related repairs included within the 
scope of works. So, she recommended QIC should reassess their cash settlement offer. 
QIC didnt agree. They said they hadnt excluded claim-related repairs. Rather, repairs not 
included in the scope of works were for areas that werent damaged by the claim and didnt 
require a strip out. And their cash settlement offer was fair. 
Our investigator considered QICs response and changed her view. She felt QIC acted fairly 
by settling the claim under the policy by paying Mr G the amount it would have cost them to 
repair the claim-related damage. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said he was given authority to carry out strip out works. He maintained 
the cash settlement given by QIC was too low and didnt include the costs to replace the 
carpets. Our investigator queried this with QIC, and a payment was later raised for the 
carpets which Mr G accepted. 
As Mr G remained unhappy with the cash settlement amount, he asked for an ombudsman 
to decide. So, its now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important I explain my role is to consider whether I think QIC acted fairly. The dispute 
present here is whether the cash settlement offered by QIC is fair. Mr G doesnt think it is, 
whilst QIC says the amount reflects what it would have cost them if they carried out the 
claim-related repairs through their approved contractors. 
Ill now refer to the policy terms which say: 
Settling claims under building covers 
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or 
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options
i)We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to 
carry out the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements. 
ii)We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us 
to use our preferred contractor. 
I understand Mr Gs reasons for asking QIC to cash settle the claim. But Ive also seen QIC 
offered to carry out the claim-related repairs. QICs liability was therefore limited to the 
amount it would have cost them to carry out the claim-related repairs. Therefore, in these 
circumstances, I think QIC acted fairly and reasonably by paying Mr G a cash settlement in 
line with what it would have cost them to undertake the work. 
Mr G argued the cash settlement was decreased as the surveyor QIC instructed to complete 
the scope of works had removed repairs because hed had carried out strip out works. 
Mr G said he was given authorisation by QIC to carry out strip out works and did this in an 
attempt to be helpful and expedite the claim process. I dont dispute Mr Gs intentions  I 
understand he was living in a caravan on his driveway without cooking facilities  so I 
appreciate why he wanted the claim to be progressed as quickly as possible. 
In order to consider whether authority was given to Mr G by QIC to carry out strip out works, 
I listened to the call recordings available to me, along with reviewing the call notes logged on 
QICs system. 
A call took place in April 2020 where the claim validation process was discussed along with 
alternative accommodation. From this call recording, it was clear the claim was still being 
validated at this point. And the handler said they were unable to progress the claim and 
make payments until thatd been carried out. During the call, Mr G said he didnt have cooking facilities. So, he asked if he could take the 
kitchen out and install a temporary one. The handler asked Mr G what he would need to get 
in order to have cooking facilities and once the validation checks had been completed then 
the costs for this could be reimbursed, as this would be cheaper than hotel accommodation. 
I cant agree, having listened to the call, the handler authorised Mr G to carry out strip out 
works. I do accept Mr G asked whether he could take out the kitchen, but its clear to me the 
handler authorised reimbursement of cooking facilities once the validation process had been 
completed. Im not persuaded the handler agreed for strip out works to be undertaken  
particularly given the claim validation process hadnt been completed at this point. 
QIC also said they told Mr G not to carry out strip out works to the kitchen as the surveyor 
would need to consider this further as part of the claim. This in my view is evidenced by the 
information detailed within the first report carried out prior to the surveyors visit. This says 
there were signs of previous water damage to the bathroom and the damage to the kitchen 
base units wasnt consistent with the claim. It was also noted that the kitchen floor tiles were 
possibly damaged prior to the claim and it couldnt be confirmed if the claim caused the tile 
movement. Also, a further visit was required to reassess the damage. 
QIC said Mr G stripped out tiles in the bathroom, the entire kitchen and flooring. They said 
this was unnecessary, particularly as they didnt think the kitchen units were damaged by the 
claim, and parts of the kitchen were considered as dry and unaffected by the claim. 
I appreciate Mr Gs intentions for carrying out the strip out works was to help progress the 
claim. But QICs liability for the claim was limited to either carrying out repairs to or provide a 
cash settlement for the amount it would cost them to carry out repairs to the claim-related 
damage. I therefore couldnt fairly conclude that QIC should also cover the remedial works 
now required following the strip out works that were carried out by Mr G. Particularly given 
the surveyor  in their professional opinion  said these werent necessary and parts 
removed were undamaged by the claim incident. 
Mr G provided his own scope of works from a local builder and the costings were 
significantly higher than the cash settlement given by QIC. So, I accept why Mr G feels QICs 
cash settlement is unfair. However, as per the policy terms above, QICs liability is limited to 
the amount the claim-related repairs would have cost them  rather than the market rate. 
Ive considered the scope of works Mr G provided and I havent been persuaded this 
demonstrates QIC removed claim-related repairs unfairly or have failed to take account of 
additional claim-related repairs within the scope of works. Overall, Im more persuaded QIC 
assessed the claim fairly and settled it in line with the policy terms. 
Mr G told us QIC hadnt raised a payment for the carpets damaged by the claim. Following 
our investigators contact with QIC, Ive seen a further payment was raised which Mr G 
accepted. So, I wont be directing QIC to do anything further here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr G. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with QIC  can do for him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman