DRN-3444570
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H said that they reached a new deal on their mortgage with Santander UK Plc in 
late 2020, which wasnt subject to an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). But they said when 
they then wanted to fix their mortgage, Santander said they would have to pay an ERC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H said theyd added some further borrowing to their mortgage in 2020. They said 
this also included changes to their original loan, and it took some time to arrange. 
Mr and Mrs H told us that when they signed for this new mortgage, Santander said there 
wasnt any ERC. So they had planned on this basis. But when they then tried to remortgage, 
to take advantage of a better fixed rate, Santander said the earlier documentation was a 
mistake and they were still subject to an ERC on their main loan. It was only the new lending 
that didnt have an ERC. 
Mr and Mrs H said theyd put a lot of work and time into finding a new fixed rate mortgage, 
and had made financial decisions based on this. They said they just wanted to fix their 
mortgage with Santander, taking up the 0.99% interest for five years that it was then offering. 
Santander said that the paperwork that Mr and Mrs H signed when they last remortgaged 
contained a mistake, because it didnt set out that the pre-existing lending was still subject to 
an ERC, which was to run until 2025. 
Santander said this ERC was clear from the paperwork that Mr and Mrs H had signed in May 
2020, when they fixed their existing mortgage. It just wasnt carried forward onto the 
paperwork they signed later in that year, when they added some new borrowing. 
Santander paid £75 to apologise for the confusion, but said it wouldnt waive the ERC. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he appreciated that 
there was a mistake in the paperwork for Mr and Mrs Hs new mortgage in late 2020. But he 
said the paperwork theyd signed when theyd entered into a new five year fixed interest rate 
deal, in May of that year, did make clear that there was an ERC on this part of the lending. 
This just wasnt copied across onto the offer they accepted in November 2020. 
Our investigator said it is usual for a fixed rate mortgage to have an ERC. And this wasnt Mr 
and Mrs Hs first fixed rate mortgage, so they would have been familiar with how this product 
works. So he couldnt say that their decision to go ahead would have been on the basis that 
no ERC would apply. 
Our investigator thought the payment of £75 that Santander had offered to make up for Mr 
and Mrs Hs loss of expectation was fair. He didnt think it had to do more than that. 
Mr H replied on behalf of Mrs H and himself. He said they had discussed the new mortgage 
terms offered, went through the agreement and signed. In reliance on that, they then spent 
time planning when they would fix the whole mortgage amount. And he said theyd made big 
financial decisions on this basis. They wanted our service to have a true sense of how they 
felt and the impact this had.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said he had a summary of the advice Mr and 
Mrs H discussed with Santander before taking out this mortgage, and that showed theyd 
been reminded their existing borrowing did have an ERC. Santander had set out for Mr and 
Mrs H what that was. So he said where there was a discrepancy, like the one in the 
mortgage offer, he would have expected this to be queried. He couldnt say it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to have relied on the mortgage offer alone. 
Mr and Mrs H still didnt agree. They said the notes seemed to be from a conversation earlier 
on. When they signed the November deal, it was for a different amount of money, over a 
different period, and it clearly stated no ERC was payable. Thats why they had made 
financial decisions based on being able to remortgage a year or so later, decisions that Mr H 
said would detrimentally impact them now.
Mr and Mrs H wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Santander in 2015, which had a fixed interest rate 
until July 2020. It was subject to an ERC until July 2020.
In May 2020, Santander offered Mr and Mrs H a new fixed rate for their mortgage, for a 
further fixed term, until August 2025. That new offer was clearly subject to an ERC, at 5% of 
the amount repaid, if it was repaid before 2 August 2025. 
Later that year, Mr and Mrs H asked Santander about further borrowing. The conversation 
our investigator noted happened around this time. Mr and Mrs H said they then changed the 
basis of their mortgage. I can see that they extended the term of their original borrowing, 
which they hadnt initially envisaged doing. I understand that this was to allow them to 
borrow an extra £50,000. 
Mr and Mrs H were then sent a new mortgage offer. This offered their new borrowing. It also 
amended their existing borrowing. That remained at the existing fixed rate of 1.49% until 2 
August 2025, the term of this lending was extended. 
But Santander didnt include in this document information on the ERC which it had applied to 
that original borrowing. Instead, it said that there was no ERC on any part of the mortgage. 
Santander says this was a mistake. 
Mr and Mrs H have since sent us their mortgage statements. The statement covering 2020 is 
complicated, but it does make clear that their existing mortgage divides into two loans. One 
has just under £50,000 outstanding, is at an interest rate of 1.99%, and has no ERC. 
However, the bulk of their lending is on the other part of the loan, which has just over 
£190,000 outstanding, a fixed rate of 1.49% and an early repayment charge until 2 August 
2025. I think that Mr and Mrs H entered into an agreement to fix the rate of their existing mortgage 
in May 2020, and were properly notified of the ERC that applied at this time. They then 
entered into another agreement in November 2020, which involved some additional 
borrowing, and extending the term of their existing lending. But this, importantly, left the 
existing rate fix untouched. 
Santander made a mistake in not including the ERC for their existing loan in their loan 
documentation in November 2020. But it has included this ERC in documentation issued to 
them since, including their 2020 mortgage statement. That was issued electronically in 
January 2021, well before Mr and Mrs H complained. 
So I think that the lack of an ERC in Mr and Mrs Hs November 2020 mortgage document 
was just a single oversight by Santander. And because Mr and Mrs H had agreed the fixed 
rate deal on their existing lending relatively recently, I dont think its likely that they were 
entirely misled by the documentation issued in November 2020. 
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs H would have, at the least, been hoping that Santander 
wouldnt charge the ERC on their existing lending. But I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to require Santander to waive this ERC now, solely because of this oversight. 
Santander has paid Mr and Mrs H £75 to make up for their understandable disappointment. 
Im sorry to have to add to that disappointment, but having considered this complaint 
carefully, I dont think that Santander has to do more than this. And that means this 
complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman