DRN-2563778
The complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs H took out in 
November 2001. It was sold in store and provided protection for Mrs H's account payments if 
she couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didn't think AXA had 
made the cost and the benefits of the policy clear enough. And that, given Mrs H's 
circumstances, it was unlikely she would still have gone ahead and taken out the policy had 
AXA been clearer about things.
AXA didn't agree, so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint and I explained why. I said:
AXA had to make Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI. Mrs H says she didn't know shed taken out the insurance and that she 
cant remember it being discussed. I've looked at the paperwork that was completed 
at the time. The store card application form included a separate section headed 
Protecting your Account" and Mrs H signed, separately from the main application, to 
confirm that she wanted it. I cant say what was discussed, if anything, at the time of 
the application, but I think the paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional.
So, overall, I think AXA made Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and she chose 
to take it. I'm not surprised she can't remember this as it happened so long ago.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover. As she could have benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont 
think having better information about these exclusions or limits would have affected 
her decision take out PPI.
Mrs H told us she would have received between six and twelve months pay from her 
employer if she couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. And that she had at 
least six months worth of savings. We asked for more information about Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale and in particular more information about the pay 
she would have received and the savings she had. Weve given her representative 
two opportunities to provide further information or evidence, but we havent received 
anything.
The PPI would have covered Mrs H's card payments if she was unable to work due 
to sickness or an accident until she returned to work. This would have been in 
addition to any sick pay she received. It also covered her if she'd become 
unemployed. Based on what Ive currently seen, Im not persuaded that Mrs H had 
sufficient existing arrangements in place which meant she would have thought she 
didnt need the PPI.
Overall, I dont think Mrs H has lost out because of anything that AXA might have 
done wrong.
Both parties confirmed that they had received my provisional decision, but neither provided 
any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H's case.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or information, I find no reason to depart 
from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman