DRN-3501172
Complaint
Mr and Mrs M have an account with Norther Bank Limited. Mrs M is unhappy that it hasnt 
agreed to pay her a refund after she fell victim to a scam.
Background
In August 2021, Mrs M received a phone call. She was asked if shed authorised an online 
payment for £399. She said she hadnt. Her caller explained that this meant that her account 
might be at risk. She was transferred to someone who purported to be an employee of a law 
enforcement organisation. In reality, they were a fraudster.
Mrs M was told that her accounts had been compromised and that she needed to transfer 
her money to a new account to keep it safe. She visited her local branch on two consecutive 
days and made payments of £25,000 and £20,000 respectively. She told the bank staff that 
she was transferring the money to her nephew to buy a house  the scammers had told her 
that she needed to provide a false reason for the transfer. For context, its also worth noting 
that Mrs M had recently been discharged from hospital after being treated for a very serious 
health condition and told us that she wasnt quite herself.
A bank employee completed a questionnaire with Mrs M. This document included 
information about six commonly occurring scams and also included five questions for the 
bank employee to ask the customer. These were:
 
-Who is the intended beneficiary of the payment?
-What is the payment being sent for?
-How did you obtain the sort code and account number and have you been advised of 
a change to the beneficiary details?
-Are you being pressured/coerced to make this payment by a third party?
-Have you successfully sent funds to this beneficiary before? 
Mrs M answered these questions to the satisfaction of the bank employee and so her 
payment was processed.
Shortly afterwards, she suspected that shed been the unwitting victim of a scam. She told 
Northern Bank, but it declined to pay her a refund. Mrs M was unhappy with that response 
and so she referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who 
upheld it. The Investigator thought that Northern Bank shouldve regarded the payments as 
unusual and out of character and done more to question them with Mrs M.
Northern Bank disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It said that the branch staff had 
done everything they could to assist Mrs M. It also pointed out that Mrs M had agreed that a 
bank employee had asked her several questions, including about the name of the payee  
and this gave Mrs M the opportunity to tell them what was going on. 
Because Northern Bank disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mrs M authorised the scam payments. She was tricked by the 
scammers into instructing Northern Bank to make those payments on the basis that she 
thought her accounts were at risk from fraud. This was an authorised payment even though 
Mrs M was the victim of a scam. Nonetheless, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms and conditions of the account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Northern Bank should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The question I have to consider is whether Northern Bank ought to have recognised the 
increased risk of fraud when Mrs M gave it her payment instruction and intervened in 
response to that risk. The payments were certainly out of character. Ive looked carefully at 
the statements for the account and the next largest payments out of the account were 
several transactions for £500. A request to pay £20,000 shouldve been a cause for concern 
and wouldve justified an intervention on the part of Northern Bank.
As described in the background section to this decision, Northern Bank did intervene here 
and ran through a standardised fraud prevention process. Unfortunately, Im not persuaded 
that its response was sufficient. Mrs M was asked five questions about the payments. Some 
of these seem to be primarily concerned with preventing a misdirected payment, rather than 
responding the risk of fraud. Nonetheless, while this questionnaire might be helpful at 
flushing out some more simplistic scams or helping a customer to pause and think before 
progressing with a payment, I dont think it was sufficient here.
The bank needed to play a more active role in determining whether there was a meaningful 
risk of a scam.  Id have expected Mrs M to have been asked a handful of follow up 
questions after shed specified that the payment was to assist a family member with a house 
purchase. Although she had been given some coaching by the scammer, it was superficial. 
Shed simply been given a false reason for needing to make the payment. If Mrs M had been 
asked further questions about the details of this alleged house purchase, it wouldve compelled her to improvise responses. I think its likely that a vigilant bank employee 
wouldve spotted uncertainty in her responses and that this would be a strong indicator that 
shed been targeted by a scammer.
Ive also considered the information sheet which was part of Northern Banks fraud 
response. This sheet contains brief descriptions of the most commonly occurring scams and 
Mrs M was asked to sign it after reading. Unfortunately, I think there was simply too much 
information on this sheet for it to have had any meaningful impact on Mrs Ms decision 
making. It does have a section covering impersonation scams in a generalised way. But it 
attempts to cover five other types of scam on the same page.
Mrs M had been placed under pressure by the scammer  she sincerely believed that her 
money was at risk and so wouldve found it more difficult to process the information on the 
sheet. Furthermore, the scammers had told her to give a false reason for the payment. It 
would be unlikely that shed share the real reason after reading a short paragraph describing 
impersonation scams. Scams in which the fraudsters tell customers to not be truthful with 
bank employees are widespread and Id have expected the banks response to take account 
of that.
Ive also considered Mrs Ms role in what happened. Its clear that she wasnt familiar with 
this type of scam and so she took the requests from the scammers at face value. I dont 
think she was negligent in failing to recognise that these requests werent legitimate. Overall, 
Im persuaded that Northern Bank shouldve done more to protect Mrs M from the risk of 
financial harm due to fraud. If it had done so, Im satisfied it wouldve prevented her from 
making these payments to the scammers.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Northern Bank Limited needs to refund both of the payments that were made in connection 
with this scam. It should also pay any interest that wouldve been earned had the money 
stayed in Mr and Mrs Ms account between the date of the scam and the date any settlement 
is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman