DRN-3174559
The complaint
Mr E complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr E is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around June 2017, Mr E was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr E decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In November 2019 the CMC made a claim on Mr Es behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr E to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The feed in tariff (FIT) payments and electricity savings would exceed the monthly 
finance payments; and
The panels would break even on their costs within 14 years; and
The system was a good investment and would provide a profit, and 
P would guarantee the first years performance and would pay the difference if the 
system produced less than their quote; and
Mr E was pressured into signing the agreement and didnt have time to read through 
the documents; and
Shawbrook failed to assess Mr Es credit worthiness
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr E and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response within eight weeks, so the CMC referred Mr Es 
complaint to this service. 
In July 2021, Shawbrook explained to this service that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr E or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr E and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Consideration hasnt been given to the verbal discussions during the original sales 
presentation.
There was no detailed discussion about the content of the quote documentation.
It was clear Mr R didnt have the means to pay for the system without arranging a 
loan, and Mr E was told the returns he would receive would not place him in a worse 
financial position.
Mr E wasnt told the system would be self-funded by the FIT payment alone but by 
the combination of the FIT payments and electricity savings.
Mr E isnt claiming that the system isnt performing as expected, but that he was told 
the financial benefits would cover his monthly finance payments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr E paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr E could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr E and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement,(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement,
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Es recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Mr E has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and energy savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mr E has said.
FIT payments 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr E could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr E could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £263.69.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr E could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £191.99 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mr E the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £551.68. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr E entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £103.64. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £103.64, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr E could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
While I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr E that the system would self-funding when including the 
expected energy savings.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr E was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 20 the overall benefits that Mr E could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr E that the system would pay for itself by 
year 20, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr E. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3,962.29 kWh a year. The MCS certificate sets out a slightly lower figure of 3,892.36 kWh a 
year. So, Ive used the higher figure in the quote when assessing the system purchased by 
Mr E.
Ive also looked at Mr Es FIT statements up to 15 December 2020. I can see that his system 
has generated annually, an average of 3,602.62 kWh. This is slightly less than estimated by 
P at the point of sale, although it is within industry accepted tolerances. So, Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why Mr E hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr E couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, while I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr E entered into the contract.
In our investigators view, it was suggested there may have been some small inaccuracies 
within the ONS data that P detailed within their quote. Ive checked the figures publicly 
available on the ONS website and I believe the figures used by P in their quote were correct.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
Credit Assessment
When considering Mr Es application for credit, I understand Shawbrook completed their own 
internal credit assessments and considered information obtained from credit reference 
agencies when reaching their decision to lend. Having completed my investigation, Im 
satisfied that there isnt any information to support the allegation that proportionate credit 
checks and assessments werent completed here. 
Sales pressure
Concerns have been raised that as part of Ps sales process, pressure was exerted upon Mr 
E to enter into the agreement to purchase the system. Im aware of previous allegations 
which were investigated and addressed by Trading Standards. These relate to 
circumstances predating the sales process and purchase in Mr Es case. This service has 
been provided with assurances that those concerns were addressed and remedied, in co-
operation with Trading Standards, prior to Ps sale to Mr E.
Im also satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process. It wouldve been 
discussed with Mr S, which the original complaint supports, and so Ive not been persuaded 
that the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been contradicted by the 
quote. To support this, Im satisfied that the Mr E was sent the quote, had time to consider it 
and to raise any issues prior to installation.Other matters
I understand that shortly after installation of the system, faults were identified that meant that 
Mr E didnt receive the benefits that were expected within the first year. The problems 
appear to have related to individual panels that had been installed. I also understand P 
ultimately resolved the problems and paid an amount to Mr E to reimburse him for any 
losses incurred during that period.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr E to enter 
into the contract for the system. So, while I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed, I have 
found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman