DRN-2066460
The complaint
Mr P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy was added to 
Mr Ps credit card account when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint because:
I think Capital One made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. I can see he had 
to say either yes or no to confirm if he wanted the PPI  and hes ticked the yes 
option.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr P chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr P would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ps comments, including what hes said about his work 
benefits and life assurance. I think the policy still had benefits Mr P would have found useful, 
so I dont think better information would have changed his decision. These points dont 
change my conclusion.
Mr P might want to cancel the policy which Capital One says is still operating  although as 
he hasnt used his card for many years no PPI payments have been made since about 2006. 
He can do that by contacting the bank.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman