DRN-3013662
The complaint
Mrs L complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) has reported adverse loan 
information on her credit file despite making payments each month and settling the loan 
early. Mrs L says the adverse credit file data is preventing her from obtaining a mortgage. 
What happened
This complaint is about adverse information which was reported on a loan that was taken out 
in January 2020. Mrs L borrowed £2,000 to be repaid by 104 weekly repayments of £46. Mrs 
L says she had an agreement in place with the agent to pay monthly, in order to fit in with 
her pay cycle. I can see that the loan has been closed because Mrs L repaid the loan early 
with a payment that was made around 1 December 2020.
 
However, following the loan being repaid Mrs L discovered that adverse information was 
reported to the credit reference agencies. Unhappy with this, she raised a complaint with 
Provident.
 
Provident, issued a final response letter (FRL). Provident didnt uphold her complaint. It 
explained that Mrs L was in arrears not necessarily because of missed or late payments but 
due to the amount that she was paying. As a result, it recorded adverse information on her 
credit file. So Provident didnt think it had made an error. 
Mrs L, unhappy with this response, referred her complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained that the 
amounts Mrs L was paying werent sufficient each month to keep on top of the payments. 
And by the end of October her account was sufficiently in arrears for information to be 
reported to the credit reference agencies.
 
Mrs L didnt agree with the outcome. In summary she said;
she was misinformed about how the loan could be repaid;
payments were made a day or so late, but this was due to Mrs L being away. This 
has created significant knock on effects and
payments were not missed, and Provident is reporting incorrect information on her 
credit file. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Irresponsible Lending
After Mrs L brought her complaint about the credit file to this service, she provided further 
information about the cost of the loans and the time she has spent indebted to Provident. 
Mrs L agreed to continue with her complaint about the credit file due to the current legal 
position with the lender. I therefore make no finding on whether anything went wrong when 
the loans were approved. 
Credit file
The crux of this complaint is about adverse marker recorded on Mrs Ls credit file. Looking at 
the screen shot of the credit file that Mrs L has provided, I can see the loan account is up to 
date until November 2020, when Provident has reported a 1. Indicating that Mrs L was now 
at least four weeks in arrears with her repayments. This could be a result of not making a 
payment, or due the accumulation of arrears. And then the account is marked as closed from 
December  with no other adverse markings being reported. 
Mrs L has explained, in quite a lot of detail, the problems she says the missed payment 
marker is having on her ability to obtain a mortgage. Im sorry to hear about these problems 
and the knock-on effect this is having. But for this Service to be able to ask Provident to 
remove the missed payments we have to be satisfied the information is being recorded as a 
result of an error, made by Provident. Based on what Ive seen Im not convinced that it has. 
So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding the complaint and Ive explained why below. 
As Ive said above, Mrs L took out a £2,000 to be repaid by weekly repayments of £46. Mrs L 
agreed to these terms by accepting the credit agreement that set out this information. 
However, Mrs L says that due to her pay cycle she agreed with the agent that shed pay 
Provident monthly. This does appear to be something that Provident offers its customers.  
So, depending on the number of payment weeks in a month Mrs L would need to pay 
between £184 and £230 per month. 
I can see from the evidence provided by both Provident and Mrs L that she did make 
monthly repayments towards her loan. So, it doesnt appear that the 1 recorded on her 
credit file was a result of a missed payment in any one month.  The payments that I can see 
in her bank statements are reflected in the payments credited to her account by Provident, 
so there are no missing payments.  
However, there are some discrepancies in the dates the repayments were made. For 
example, Mrs L made a payment of £200 and the statement of account provided by 
Provident shows this was credited to her loan on 30 September 2020. Whereas Mrs Ls bank 
statement shows that the payment cleared her account on 1 October 2020. 
A similar pattern appears to have happened most months. Providents statement of account 
shows that £250 was credited to her account on 31 October 2020 whereas the payment is 
showed on the bank statement screen shot of clearing on 2 November 2011.
It isnt clear why there is this discrepancy, part of it could be down to delays in payment 
processing caused by the weekend. For example, the 2 November 2020 is a Monday and so 
its entirely possible the payment was originally made on 31 October 2010  which is the 
date Provident has marked the payment as being received by. 
However, whatever the reason for the discrepancy, doesnt in my mind affect the outcome of 
this case. This is because, the difference in payment is around a day or so, and actually, the 
dates Provident have recorded are the last working day of the month, which I understand to 
be Mrs Ls payday. And, Im satisfied, based on the payment history provided by Mrs L and 
Provident that she was making monthly repayments. However, making monthly repayments on its own wasnt enough to prevent the account from 
going into arrears. The repayments needed to be of a sufficient value to meet the amount 
that was due to be paid. 
Providents statement of account shows that Mrs L was on top of her payments but fell into 
arrears in April 2020. When a payment of £100 was credited to her account on 1 May 2020 
but she was still arrears by over a weeks worth of payments. Then at the end of May a 
further payment of £100 was paid, but a further amount of £184 became due. So even after 
the payment that Mrs L made at the end of May she was now around 3 weeks in arrears. 
Over time, these arrears grew as a result of the monthly payment amount not being 
sufficient. 
Mrs L was already in arrears at the start of July by around £166. During this month, five 
payments were due, meaning that she needed to pay £230. But Mrs L paid £200, the effect 
of this was that Mrs Ls account went a further £30 into arrears  which is almost 4 weeks 
worth of repayments. A similar pattern continued, with Mrs L making repayments, but not 
really making headway into the weekly arrears that had accrued. 
So, while Mrs M did make payments each month, she wasnt always paying enough to clear 
the amount she owed Provident and to start making headway into the arrears that she had. 
Provident said, that when she entered arrears, it sent Mrs L letters letter her know. Ive not 
seen enough to suggest a letter was sent in May 2020. But Ive seen supplied evidence that 
it sent a letter at the end of October 2020 explaining the account was in arrears. I know 
Mrs L says the letter wasnt received but based on what Ive seen Im satisfied one was sent. 
Overall, looking at what has happened, Mrs L was making monthly payments, but these 
werent always sufficient to prevent the account from going into arrears (or to bring the 
account out of arrears). It also seems that Provident didnt report all the arrears 
straightaway, it seemed it waited until Mrs L was more than 4 weeks in arrears before it 
reported this to the credit reference agencies. 
So, while I understand Mrs L frustration about what has happened, Im not able to uphold her 
complaint. I appreciate this isnt the outcome that Mrs L was hoping for but based on what 
Ive seen, Im not able to conclude Provident has made an error. Therefore, Im not able to 
ask it to make adjustments to Mrs Ls credit file.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman