DRN-3900080
The complaint
Mr A and Miss W said when they applied for a mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC, it mistakenly 
conducted a very large number of hard credit searches. They complain about how this 
impacted their mortgage applications, and want Lloyds to cover the resulting extra costs.
What happened
Mr A and Miss W told us they applied for a mortgage with Lloyds in August 2021. Lloyds
made a mistake, and carried out a total of 22 hard credit searches against each one of them,
which were recorded on each of their credit files. They said they didnt buy a property then,
so only found out about this when they applied again to Lloyds for a mortgage in January
2022.
Mr A and Miss W said that because Lloyds then failed to delete the hard searches when they
asked, they nearly lost the property they were trying to buy. They also said they werent able
to get the best mortgage offer available at the time, because Lloyds hadnt removed all the
searches right away. They wanted Lloyds to pay the resulting extra costs, which at the time
they said amounted to many tens of thousands of pounds.
Lloyds has accepted that something went wrong here, although it isnt sure what. It has,
however, accepted responsibility for these mistaken searches. Its also accepted that the
complaint that Mr A and Miss W wanted to raise wasnt lodged when they first raised this. It
said it thought they first tried to raise a complaint on 7 February, but the searches werent
removed until 31 March.
Lloyds said it was sorry, and it offered to pay £500 in compensation. It also offered to
consider reimbursing the additional costs that Mr A and Miss W incurred.
When this case came to our service, Lloyds said it now thought that Mr A and Miss W tried
to raise this problem with it on 8 February. It said that it could see a mortgage offer with a
second bank Mr A and Miss W obtained on 3 February. (I wont name the other banks
involved here.) But it didnt have any confirmation that the reason theyd been turned down
for that was the searches on their credit file. And if the problem was the searches on their 
files, then Lloyds said it wanted to know why the email it had sent to Mr A and Miss W,
accepting responsibility for those and confirming they would be removed, hadnt helped.
Lloyds said it knew that Mr A and Miss W had obtained a mortgage with a third lender, but it
didnt think that meant that the application from 3 February, with the second lender, wouldve
been successful. And Lloyds said Mr A and Miss W were asking it to pay between £10,000
and £50,000, but it just didnt think theyd shown losses of this size.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. (I wont set out his reasoning
here, as I havent adopted it.) Mr A and Miss W strongly objected. They wanted their 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so this case then came to me for a final 
decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I only set out the issues that Mr A and Miss W experienced quite briefly above. Thats 
not to downplay the impact of the mistakes that were made here, but simply because 
Lloyds has accepted responsibility for what went wrong. Most of the facts arent really in 
dispute, although I should note I do think its likely that Mr A and Miss W complained on 
7 February, as Lloyds originally said, not 8 February, as it later suggested. But I havent 
needed to assess the facts in detail, because Lloyds has accepted responsibility for 
what went wrong. I can simply say I think it was right to do so.
When this case came to me, I wanted to explore how Mr A and Miss W sought to 
mitigate the impact of Lloyds mistake on them, and also to gather a little more evidence 
of the additional costs that Mr A and Miss W said they faced. So I wrote to them, 
explaining a little more about how our service views compensation, and what would 
assist me in assessing their complaint. I thank them for their helpful response, and 
additional evidence on this.
Mr A and Miss W have shown us details of the mortgage they applied for with the 
second bank, and the mortgage they eventually obtained with the third bank. They said 
they would now have to pay over £2,000 more overall, over the course of the first five 
years of this mortgage. Ive considered the evidence they have provided, and I think 
thats right.
Lloyds said that we couldnt be sure that Mr A and Miss W would actually have been 
successful in their application with the second bank, if the extra credit searches hadnt 
been on their credit file. Whilst thats right, I note that its quite unusual for a bank to 
provide written confirmation of the reasons why a mortgage application is declined. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to require Mr A and Miss W to provide that here. I 
think its simply most likely that Mr A and Miss Ws application with the second bank was 
declined because of these searches. And given that they were successful in their 
applications both with Lloyds itself, and with the third bank (which assesses such 
applications in a different way) I think its more likely they would have been successful 
with their second application too, if the searches hadnt been there.
Lloyds also wanted to know why the email it sent, accepting responsibility for the 
searches on Mr A and Miss Ws credit file, hadnt helped. Mr A and Miss W said theyd 
sent this to their broker, and hed advised them that this wouldnt make any difference to 
the application process, they should wait until the searches were removed. It seems 
doubtful that they would really have anticipated, on 22 February when this email was 
sent, that removing the searches would take as long as it did. I also note that this email 
refers to 18 mistaken searches, and Miss Ws credit file shows rather more searches 
from Lloyds than this. In the light of this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr A and 
Miss W to rely on their brokers advice, and wait for searches to be removed. Im not 
clear that this email could ever have been as useful as Lloyds had hoped.
For those reasons, I think its reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay the extra costs that Mr A 
and Miss W will pay onto their mortgage over the first five years, while their rates are 
fixed. So Ill ask it to pay Mr A and Miss W £2,027.64 as part of the award Im proposing. 
Mr A and Miss W also said that their property purchase was in danger of collapsing, and 
to stop their seller putting the property back on the market, theyd had to agree to 
exchange and complete on the same day. They said that because their mortgage offer was only confirmed at the last minute, that meant they had to pay an extra month of 
rent, which theyve shown us was £1,100 per month.
The evidence that Mr A and Miss W have sent us suggests that their rent ran from the 
23rd of each month. And they appear to have purchased their property on 31 March. So 
I think they were always likely to have paid almost an extra month of rent, on their old 
property, just because these dates didnt match. It also looks as if they received a 
mortgage offer on 18 March, and could then have given notice on their rented home. So 
I dont think Mr A and Miss W were obliged to pay more than an extra month of rent, 
because of the late arrival of this offer.
Considering the above, I dont think its reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay for additional 
rental costs, for Mr A and Miss W, as part of the compensation in this case.
Lloyds has also already offered £500 in compensation, to take account of the stress that 
these mistakes caused to Mr A and Miss W. I think that provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this part of their complaint, but I understand this hasnt yet been accepted 
and paid. So I will include this in my proposed award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said it didnt have anything to add. It was happy to accept my provisional decision.
Mr A wrote to say he and Miss W were happy with the provisional decision. But then Miss W 
replied to say she felt Id missed something out. She said that the second bank was going to 
pay them £750 in cashback. She wanted me to consider adding that onto the award in this 
case. She said it was a lot of money, which they had lost out on because of Lloyds error. 
I understand that the second bank Mr A and Miss W applied to for a mortgage, did offer 
£750 in cashback on completion. But it also charged a fee of £995 for the mortgage. In total, 
£1,025 in fees would have been added to that loan. So the cashback that Mr A and Miss W 
would have received would have been far outweighed by the fees charged on this loan, 
which of course Mr A and Miss W would have had to pay back over the lifetime of the 
mortgage, with interest. 
The mortgage Mr A and Miss W then secured had a far more modest £35 in fees. 
I appreciate that Mr A and Miss W missed out on the chance to get an injection of cash when 
they were moving. And I understand this can help with the proliferation of expenses at the 
time of a house move. But that cashback wasnt free money. In the longer term, I do think its 
most likely that Mr A and Miss W are better off without that cashback, given the larger 
amount of additional borrowing (in the form of fees added to the loan) that came with it. 
Thats why I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay them that cashback 
amount now.
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr A and Miss W £2,027.64 to cover 
their additional mortgage costs, and £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman