The complaint
Mr K has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes their agents.
What happened
Mr K first took out car insurance with esure in August 2018. His policy renewed the following 
year in 2019. But Mr K asked for his policy to be cancelled in September 2019. Very soon 
after Mr K asked for his policy to be reinstated and asked for a different car to be insured. 
esure when reinstating the policy insured the old car instead of the new one.
On 21 September 2019, while Mr K was using his car, the police did a check and said his car 
wasnt insured. Despite esure telling the police that Mr Ks car was insured, they towed away 
his car.
Mr K complained. esure accepted they had made a mistake. To address the distress and 
inconvenience Mr K experienced they reimbursed him the £100 cost of the car being towed 
away; £10 travel costs; and £200 compensation. esure also wrote off an additional premium 
of £24.43. But Mr K said that didnt go far enough as he felt the compensation should have 
been £2,000, so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
it. He felt that esure had dealt with Mr K fairly. As Mr K didnt think that was fair, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr K, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
esures error was unfortunate as it caused Mr K to be stopped and for his car to be towed 
away. I can understand how distressing and inconvenient that must have been for him. But 
esure told the police Mr K was covered in the hope that they wouldnt take away his car but 
the police still went ahead and did that. esure have accepted their mistake and paid for the 
costs Mr K incurred and also £200 compensation. 
While the whole experience was upsetting, I think esure have dealt with Mr Ks complaint 
fairly. The compensation they have offered him is in line with the types of compensation our 
service awards for complaints of similar seriousness. Im therefore not asking them to do 
anything further
My final decision
DRN-1212331For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman