DRN-3164982
The complaint
Ms M complained her claim was unfairly declined after presenting her insurer, Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance plc (RSA), with new evidence.
What happened
Earlier in the year Ms M made a claim to RSA for theft of her vehicle. When RSA declined 
her claim, Ms M escalated her complaint to our service. An ombudsman reviewed Ms Ms 
complaint and issued a final decision. The ombudsman decided not to uphold Ms Ms 
complaint as he thought RSA had reasonably concluded that there wasnt evidence that the 
car had been stolen.
Afterwards, Ms M made a complaint to the police, as she didnt think theyd handled her 
reported crime or recorded the details properly. The police investigated Ms Ms complaint 
and its standards team responded to her. Ms M has submitted the police investigation report, 
that the standards team produced, to RSA as she thought it provided new evidence that her 
car was stolen. RSA reviewed the police investigation report, but it said it provided 
insufficient evidence to change our stance. So, RSA maintained its decision to decline Ms 
Ms claim as the police didnt record the incident as a theft.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said she carefully considered the 
new evidence provided by Ms M but couldnt say RSA acted incorrectly when it decided to 
decline Ms Ms claim as she said there wasnt evidence to show a theft had occurred by a 
third party. Ms M disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my decision, its important to re-iterate that a final decision has already been 
issued by an ombudsman on Ms Ms initial complaint. So, under our rules, our service cant 
consider this complaint again or re-open it.
However, Ms M raised a new complaint with RSA when it declined her claim for a second 
time, after she submitted the police investigation report, as new evidence, to support her 
theft claim. As Ive said already, my decision will only be able to consider whether RSA has 
been fair in declining Ms Ms claim in respect to this new evidence.
Its Ms Ms responsibility to provide evidence to RSA that an insured event has taken place. 
Ms Ms claim is for theft, so she needs to provide evidence to prove this. In theft claims, its 
normal for the theft to be reported to the police. Once investigated, the police report would 
provide a record and evidence that the theft occurred.
The new evidence that Ms M has provided to RSA is the report produced by the local 
constabularies standards team in response to her complaint to them on the service they 
provided her. After considering the new evidence, RSA said Ive read the letter from [the] 
police in response to the appeal you presented to them and Im afraid I agree with [them]. 
There is nothing contained within that to convince us to re-consider our position.
I have considered whether RSA has been reasonable and fair in saying the report doesnt 
provide evidence a theft has taken place. Im going to disappoint Ms M, as I dont think it 
does, so I wont be upholding this complaint. I have read the report in detail. The standards 
team has responded in detail to ten different points raised by Ms M.
I can see the report confirms that a theft was reported by Ms M at the same time she 
reported her handbag as missing. However, the reporting of a crime isnt evidence that a 
crime has taken place. This would need to be evidenced and confirmed by the police after 
their investigation of the crime.
The ombudsman looking at the previous complaint didnt uphold the original complaint, as he 
didnt see evidence a theft had taken place. And I havent seen anything in the new evidence 
Ms M provided from the standards team that evidences a theft has occurred either. So, as 
Ms M hasnt provided any evidence a theft or any other insured peril has occurred, I think 
RSA has been fair to decline the claim. So, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I dont need Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance plc to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman