DRN-2736783
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has unfairly charged him fees for withdrawing 
cash. And that it hasnt adequately supported him in light of his vulnerabilities.
What happened
Mr S holds a bank account with Monzo. In October 2020, it introduced a 3% fee on cash 
machine (ATM) withdrawals over £250 in a 30-day period. It seems he was notified about 
this in advance via email, but didnt see the message as it went to his junk folder.
In early November 2020, Mr S was charged due to the level of his cash withdrawals. When 
he complained to Monzo, it agreed to refund the fees as a one-off. It also explained how the 
fees would apply going forward. 
Shortly after, Mr S incurred further fees for ATM withdrawals. Hes explained that he needed 
emergency funds, and used the cash for gambling  something which he struggles with  in 
a bid to raise the money he needed. He complained to Monzo about the new fees. He also 
explained that he was vulnerable. He wanted to arrange for a friend to speak to Monzo on 
his behalf. But it said this would only be possible with Power of Attorney. Mr S was unhappy 
about this.
Monzo didnt agree to refund the fees, but paid him £50 compensation for the upset caused 
by how the matter had been handled.
Mr S referred the matter to our service. He also decided to close his Monzo account, as he 
was unhappy with the level of support provided. Our investigator thought the fees Mr S was 
disputing had been applied fairly. But they thought Monzo ought to have done more to 
support Mr S, given what hed disclosed about his circumstances. In particular, they thought 
Monzo should have done more in response to his request to nominate a friend to speak on 
his behalf. They recommended a further £250 compensation (£300 in total).  
Mr S accepted the investigators view  but Monzo didnt. It disputed that it should have 
added a friend to the account with no authority. It said it would offer a further £100 
compensation, but Mr S didnt accept this. And the investigator still thought £300 overall 
would be a fair settlement. So the case has now been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Whilst I understand and appreciate why Mr S made these transactions, Im not persuaded it 
would be fair to direct Monzo to refund the ATM fees. These were applied in line with the 
terms of the account, after the fees had been directly explained to Mr S and after hed 
already been refunded some earlier fees. Although Mr S used the funds for gambling, I cant 
see that he told Monzo about this. Nor was it apparent from how he was using the account. 
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied the fees were applied correctly and fairly. 
When speaking to Monzo in the aftermath of the fees being applied, Mr S asked about 
nominating a friend to speak on his behalf. Hes explained he was having difficulty 
remembering about the fees. But Monzo said it would require Power of Attorney.
Mr S says hes been able to make similar arrangements with other banks without Power of 
Attorney. I recognise that not all businesses will follow the same procedures, and that there 
is a need to ensure suitable authority is in place for safeguarding reasons. But in all the 
circumstances, I dont think Monzo did enough to support Mr S with his request.  
Its clear Mr S is a vulnerable consumer. It seems Monzo recognises this. He was upfront 
about his circumstances, and was at times in a state of crisis when he contacted Monzo. The 
financial regulator (FCA) has made it clear that businesses need to treat vulnerable 
customers fairly. That may involve adjusting their processes to meet their customers needs.
I understand Monzos qualms about allowing someone unfettered, long-term access to (for 
example) make transactions on the account. But I think theres a clear distinction between 
this  and allowing someone else to help relay messages/updates between Mr S and 
Monzo, with his consent, whilst he was struggling with his physical and mental health. I dont 
consider that an unreasonable request. Allowing such an arrangement would have made it 
easier and less distressing for Mr S to manage his account. 
I dont think Monzo showed enough flexibility to Mr S in light of his needs. In line with good 
industry practice, I think it ought to have done more to facilitate his request. 
Monzo offered £50 compensation for service issues, which it subsequently increased to 
£150. Thinking about what Mr S has told us about the impact on him, I agree with our 
investigator that this doesnt adequately reflect the distress and inconvenience hes suffered 
due to its errors. Given his circumstances at the time of the request, and looking at the 
contact records, its clear he was finding it very distressing to speak to Monzo directly. For 
the reasons given above, I think Monzo could and should have alleviated this by being more 
flexible and proactive in offering him support as a vulnerable consumer. I therefore agree 
that £300 compensation in total  so a further £250 on top of what has already been paid  
would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr S a further £250 compensation on top 
of the £50 it has already paid in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct 
Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman