DRN-3535441
The complaint
V, a sole trader business, complains that TSB Bank plc didnt resolve a problem accessing 
its mobile banking app, provided poor customer service, ignored requests for contact and 
was dismissive.
What happened
The owner of V explains that he had ongoing problems accessing the business account 
using the app. This meant that he had to call or visit a branch to find out the balance or 
confirm payments. And he is unhappy at the service provided by the business team and also 
after he raised a number of complaints, from the complaints team. He says he was treated 
rudely, was ignored and was caused stress. He wasted time calling TSB and resolving the 
problem himself and he wants greater compensation.
TSB said it had paid V a total of £55. It accepted that when the owner initially called, the 
person he spoke to was dismissive about the time he had already spent on the phone 
waiting. But it said that the problem with access to the app and online banking was because 
access had been locked due to incorrect security information being input. And V had also 
been unable to use the app after that because the owner hadnt downloaded the specific one 
for business banking customers. It apologised for the time the owner had spent waiting on 
the phone and also as he said hed been put through to the wrong department on 7 January 
2022. It had issued final responses to his complaint and it didnt escalate matters beyond 
that. V was told the complaint could be referred to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that TSB do anything further. The owner of V had 
obtained recordings of the calls from TSB and forwarded these and they were about four 
hours in duration. He said that he thought that there was fault on both sides on the calls. 
TSB had been dismissive in an initial call, but staff had also found the owners behaviour 
challenging leading to some terminated calls. He noted that the owner had mentioned in a 
number of calls his unhappiness with a past issue when V had been the victim of a scam 
and the owner thought TSB had been complicit and not helped. 
He said that technology can cause issues at times and TSB had a specialist team to assist 
with problems. And although V couldnt use the app for a period it was able to access the 
account through telephone calls or in branch.
He said that complaint handling wasnt a separate regulated activity. TSB had issued a final 
response on 11 November 2021. It saw subsequent issues as relating to this complaint. 
There had been a delay in V receiving the response due to problems with the postal service. 
But when it had it was in a position to refer the complaint to this service. TSB had issued a 
final response on 12 January 2022 about a problem when the owner had later been waiting 
in a call queue for 20 minutes only to find that this was for the wrong department and had to 
wait a further 20 minutes. In both responses it had apologised for what had gone wrong and 
offered to cover any out of pocket expenses for V.
The owner of V didnt agree. He asked which part of being ignored and the onus to resolve 
things being put on him we didnt understand. He said that TSB had been incompetent, and 
we must be biased or incompetent not to see that. There were hours of wasted calls and he 
said he was never rude. The TSB process wasnt fit for purpose and he wanted a full and 
frank apology and compensation. Putting the phone down wasnt acceptable and the service 
at all levels was poor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and we are impartial. If V doesnt accept my 
findings it remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits. I will be 
considering all the evidence and submissions from TSB and V to make my decision. I have 
listened to recordings of 19 calls (with multiple ones on some of the days) between the 
owner and TSB. I will be drawing out what I think are the key points to help me make a 
decision. I am going to cover the technology and app related points first and then the 
service issues.
Use of the app/ online banking
Clearly V had ongoing issues accessing its account using the app. It first raised this with 
TSB on 28 October 2021. V seems to accept that by 18 November 2021 this had been 
resolved in a sustained way. 
I note that during a second call of 28 October 2021 a member of staff was able to reset the 
security details while the owner was on the phone. The owner was told to install and reinstall 
the app before using it. This part wasnt done while the owner was on the phone.
In a third call that day the owner spoke to a different member of staff about problems 
accessing the app. He was asked whether he was sure he was using the specific business 
app. And told he should install that one.
In a third call during 3 November 2021, a member of staff told the owner that the password 
and memorable information had been blocked. And this was likely because the wrong 
information had been put in too many times. The information was reset. And the owner was 
told he needed to use these reset details on a web browser first and not on the app.
In a fifth call during 18 November 2021 a member of staff talked the owner through 
accessing online banking using a browser, changing the memorable information and security 
questions and accessing the business app. During that call the owner says he used the 
wrong app the first time not knowing there was a specific business banking app. Everything 
was successful, and the owner said that this was how things were in the first place.
TSB has concluded in its final response that the problem was that access was locked when 
details were input incorrectly, and the wrong app was downloaded. Based on the information 
that seems to be the correct explanation. I take into account though that TSB is the expert 
here and that the need to use the browser rather than the app after a reset and that there is 
a separate business banking app may not be immediately apparent. Having said that I found 
that the members of staff involved in these calls gave the correct information. And I dont 
think it unreasonable for the owner of V to need to make follow up calls when he 
experienced further problems linked to the account being locked or the wrong app being 
used.
Customer Service- the callsIm now going to move on to consider the other calls and why these werent as productive as 
the ones Ive detailed above.
In the first call during 28 October 2021 the owner of V was unhappy that the member of staff 
was dismissive about him waiting eight minutes in a call queue. The owner said he didnt like 
the attitude and wanted to speak to a manager. He wouldnt accept any help with the 
technology problem. As I set out above later calls that day dealt with those. V raised a 
complaint.
On 2 November 2021 a member of the complaints team phoned the owner. He expressed 
concern at how long a complaint may take to address. The member of staff said she would 
send an email about his access problems to the relevant team.
On 3 November 2021 the owner made a number of calls to the business team about the 
issues. The first call didnt go well as he was asked if he wanted to be helped and responded 
that, yes, he didnt call up for a chat. The member of staff said he was rude, and the owner 
then asked to speak to a manager and said this was pure incompetence. No one was 
available and as set out in the section above the owner later phoned again that day and the 
details were reset. He said that he was unhappy with how long things were taking.
On 9 November 2021 he phoned in part to deal with a direct debit. The member of staff 
offered to help him with the ongoing app issue, but the owner said he only dealt with 
managers and said he was being ignored. He asked for a call back from a manager in 
customer relations.
On 11 November 2021 the first final response was issued. This set out the issues with 
accessing the app and offered £30 for the poor service during the first call of 28 October 
2021. Unfortunately, for reasons outside TSBs control this response didnt get to the owner 
until 24 or 25 November 2021.
On 16 November 2021 the owner called saying he is frustrated and wants to further 
complain and for this to be referred to a senior manager.
There are a number of calls on 18 November 2021 in addition to the one Ive referred to 
above. In two of them the members of staff put the phone down on the owner. I appreciate 
that the owner doesnt think he was rude and says when referring to incompetence he meant 
TSB and not the individuals. But I will mention two phrases he used in one call that I know 
caused particular offence. To one manager he said this is so unprofessional lady and that 
you are pathetic as a manager. That call and one with another manager were terminated by 
TSB. Frankly having listened to the terminated calls I think staff were entitled to refuse to 
allow what they perceived to be unacceptable behaviour continue.
Notably the first manager referred to above was prepared to take a call from the owner later 
that day. She said that he may not be intending to be rude or unpleasant but thats how it 
comes across. She managed to persuade the owner to have the call referred to in the 
section above that reset the access that day. 
The owner called again on 24 and 30 November 2021 and 6 and 13 December 2021. During 
the calls he was told that the initial person looking into his complaint had become sick. The 
person who wrote the first response letter had tried to call him on 17 November 2021 and 
not got through. Hed then been on holiday. I understand that the owner did speak to that 
person on 30 November 2021. I dont seem to have a recording of that call, but I understand  
that by then the owner wanted to deal with managers of increasing seniority. I agree with him 
that there is no evidence any of them called him back. For completeness I note reference to the call on 7 January 2022 when it is accepted the 
owner was misdirected to the wrong team and V was paid £25 compensation.
My assessment of service issues
I note as our investigator did that the owners general attitude seemed affected by the money 
hed lost in a scam from this account. He mentioned it in numerous calls. That isnt the 
subject of this complaint, but I sense that this made him less tolerant to any perceived sleight 
from TSB. And often keen to seek an escalation of any issue to increasing levels of 
management when my analysis above shows that the business banking staff had the skills 
to deal with his technical problems. 
I also sense an increasing lack of tolerance from TSB for his calls and frankly the owner did 
present at times as difficult to help. Clearly no one more senior was going to return his calls. 
I think TSB could have been clearer about that, but I also think that was a message he 
wouldnt want to accept. In any event once hed received the final response he was in a 
position to refer his complaint to this service. TSB hasnt had anything material to add to that 
response. And I wouldnt necessarily have expected it to.
We wouldnt be looking at complaint handling in isolation as it isnt a regulated activity. Some 
of the owners complaints about managers not returning calls after the final response could 
be viewed as specifically being complaint handing ones. But in any event I take the view that 
none of this escalation was really necessary. Whenever the owner was prepared to accept 
help from what seemed to be junior staff the immediate issues seemed to be resolved. When 
he didnt he ended up seeking to escalate issues in a way that wasnt productive or helpful. 
I appreciate that my assessment of what happened will be very disappointing and frustrating 
for the owner. But I hope that Ive been able to demonstrate that what Ive said has involved 
a review of the detail and into both sides of what happened. While I understand his 
perception of things and his expectations I think that what I accept is a small total amount of 
compensation for service issues and the apology about call waiting times is a sufficient 
response here. I wont be requiring TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that TSB Bank plc need do no 
more than it has already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman