DRN-2647909
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided inaccurate and misleading information on 
dealing deadlines which caused his instructions to be carried out a day later than hed 
asked. 
What happened
Mr G holds investments within HSBCs Global Investment Centre. On 9 March 2020 he 
instructed sales on three of his funds which are all managed by HSBCs asset management 
company  these were the European Index Fund, the American Index Fund and the Pacific 
Index Fund. 
Mr G placed his instructions just before midday  however these were not executed until the 
following day as HSBC said their cut off for same day dealing is 10:29am, not midday.
Mr G was unhappy with this. Hed reviewed the key investor information documents (KIIDs) 
associated with each fund and these said sales could be instructed on business days before 
the midday dealing deadline. So he thought he should have got the price on 9 March, not 10 
March. Mr G called HSBC on 12 March to make a complaint. 
HSBC looked into his concerns and sent their final response to his complaint on 29 April. 
They said the cut off times that applied here were within the Fund Details sheets and these 
highlight that dealing deadlines for business days are 10:29am. But they recognised there 
was some confusion here, so they would give feedback where appropriate. 
Remaining unhappy with this, Mr G asked for our help in September. One of our 
investigators had a look at what had happened, but he didnt agree HSBC had done 
anything wrong. He considered HSBCs terms and conditions and saw they said that the 
dealing deadlines were set out in the relevant Fund Details sheet. These explained the cut 
off times were 10:29am for each fund. He said the midday cut off time was for dealing with 
the fund manager directly, not when you hold investments using a nominee. And what 
prevailed here were the terms relevant to Mr Gs account, not the KIIDs. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said the KIIDs were legal documents and they clearly stated midday 
as the cut off. The document stating the time as 10:29am was only something you could 
access after youd invested and wasnt branded as a legal document. He understood the 
KIID wasnt intended for him as an end user but felt a KIID ought to be provided for end 
users so that he has the right legal data before he invests. He said he uses other stocks and 
shares providers and the KIID deadlines are the actual deadlines for end users. And hed 
asked his friends and they also thought the deadlines here were midday  so that 
emphasised the fact that the KIID was indeed misleading. As no agreement was reached, 
the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the KIIDs for the European, American and Pacific index funds. I note they all 
say [y]ou may sell your investment on any business day by contacting the administrator 
before the dealing deadline at 12pm.
However, Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Gs Global Investment Centre 
account which were valid from February 2020. At 13.6, they say:
When we receive your Fund Instructions, well place your order with the Manager at 
the next Valuation Point provided we receive your Fund Instructions before the 
applicable dealing Deadline. Fund Instructions received by us after the applicable 
Dealing Deadline will be placed with the Manager after that Valuation Point has 
passed and the Manager will seek to execute the trade at the following Valuation 
Point. The Dealing Deadlines and Valuation Points for each Fund are set out in the 
relevant Fund Details.
So the terms pointed Mr G to the Fund Details. These were available online and Ive seen a 
screenshot of the dashboard and link to them. Looking at the Fund Details for each of the 
funds, they all say:
The information in the Key Investor Information Document or simplified prospectus, 
where available, is based on investing directly with the fund provider. As you are 
investing through HSBC UK Bank plc rather than directly with the fund provider you 
should be aware that certain information in these documents will differ to the 
information shown below.
And within the information shown below it said Dealing deadline 10:29 am each Business 
Day. I think this was sufficiently clear. It is also not unusual for nominees have earlier 
deadlines than fund managers as this ensures they have time to collate and communicate 
client instructions. 
While Mr G points to the different time noted in the KIID, as explained in the Fund Details 
this doesnt apply as he didnt invest directly with the fund provider. Mr Gs investment was 
made through HSBC UK Bank Plc  he has a Global Investment Centre account and so its 
the terms of this which govern his relationship with HSBC here and these are not defeated 
by the KIID. 
I appreciate Mr G also says he didnt know about the 10:29am cut off until he made his 
investment, as before that, he only had access to the KIID. But Im not persuaded that the 
hour and a half time difference was a significant enough factor to have rendered the fund 
choice otherwise inappropriate. So I dont think that changes things here either. 
From all that I have seen, HSBC directed Mr G to the correct information and executed his 
trades as they said they would, so I dont agree he was misled. 
Finally, I recognise Mr G has wider concerns about how HSBCs KIIDs are prepared and 
whether a different version ought to be provided for indirect investors. But I must emphasise 
that our service isnt HSBCs regulator  we arent able to tell them what their documents 
ought to contain or how they ought to run their business. Instead, our role is to consider 
whether complaints made by consumers against businesses have been resolved fairly and 
reasonably. So we wouldnt be able to ask HSBC to change their KIIDs. They did however 
note his feedback so Im satisfied they listened to his concerns and treated them seriously. 
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman