DRN-4090247
The complaint
Mr P complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly rejected his claim under section 75 of 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a garden canopy. He believes it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and it wasnt installed adequately. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr P purchased a garden canopy from a company who I will refer to as T. It
was also agreed they would install it. The total cost was £3,900 of which Mr P paid £3,000
on his Santander credit card.
Shortly afterwards, he complained about a number of issues with the canopy. This included:
- The roof panels were installed upside down;
- The guttering drains into the garden rather than the drain, flooding the lawn;
- The canopy leaks on the inside when it rains and condensation gathers inside;
- The aluminium coating is scratched so the rainwater is getting underneath it;
- The end panels have been bent into position and they dont sit flush.
In September 2020, Mr P spoke with T to discuss the above issues and a number of fixes
were agreed. In October 2020, T said they would arrange for a fitter for the drains. They also
said Mr P still owed £900. This information was repeated again in March 2021 and T
confirmed they had the required parts. Around May 2021, T arranged for repairs to be
carried out. Despite this, Mr P said many issues remained including the issue with the
drainage.
Mr P made a chargeback claim but it was unsuccessful. He later raised a section 75 claim
stating there had been a breach of contract. Santander declined the claim stating that, as
there were no invoice or terms and conditions, they couldnt consider the claim.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr P referred the complaint to our Service. The
investigator recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He said based on the evidence, the
canopy wasnt of satisfactory quality meaning there was a breach of contract. However he
said following the repair in May 2021, there was insufficient evidence the faults remained. Mr
P disagreed and maintained his position.
Since then, in February 2023 Mr P arranged for an independent company to look at the
canopy and provide quotes about replacing it. I will refer to them as R. They said the
material of the roof is starting to discolour which would normally be present after five to
seven years of use. They recommended a full structural check as they were concerned
about its stability and safety, commenting it may not be fitted to the required safety standard.
They said there were clear gaps between the canopy and the house. They provided a
number of quotes such as replacing the roof only (around £1,900) or providing and installing
a new canopy (£5,900 to £7,500).
A copy of the same was provided to Santander for their consideration. They responded to
say that they didnt think R was impartial as its likely they were upselling. They also said Mr
P hadnt paid the remaining £900 and by not doing so, he was in breach of contract. They
commented, had he paid this outstanding sum, repairs would have been carried out.
In April 2023, I issued my provisional decision outlining my intentions to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of
goods (T) or the provider of credit (Santander) if theres been a breach of contract or a
misrepresentation. Im satisfied the requirement for a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is
present and Mr P paid £3,000 for the canopy via his credit card. As the relevant
circumstances are met, I find Mr P was able to make a section 75 claim.
However, I must stress in order to uphold Mr Ps complaint, I would need to be satisfied that
theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that Santanders response to
the section 75 claim wasnt fair nor reasonable.
Im aware Santander declined the section 75 claim stating there was no evidence of an
invoice or contract so they were unable to determine the exact terms. While I agree there is
no invoice or formal written contract, I can consider whats likely to have been agreed. The
absence of such documents doesnt mean there cant be a breach of contract. Ive been
provided with a chain of emails between Mr P and T. Having reviewed them, I can see Mr P
made an enquiry, a quote was provided by T for the supply and installation of the canopy, Mr
P confirmed he wished to go ahead and T later confirmed it had been installed. Based on
this, its clear there was a contract between Mr P and T for the supply of goods and services.
I find Mr P provided enough information for Santander to investigate a section 75 claim and it
was unfair for them to reject it on the basis that a written contract/invoice wasnt provided.
In this case, the relevant law that applies is The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). It implies
a term that the goods T supplied should be of satisfactory quality. This is taken to mean the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking account of the
description, the price paid, the state, condition, fitness for purpose and durability. There is
also an implied term that the service delivered must be carried out with reasonable care and
skill. That is, the standard one would expect of a reasonably competent person in that trade
or profession.
Based on the chain of emails between both parties and how quickly Mr P reported the
problems (within 30 days), I find there were issues with the canopy and its installation.
Having reviewed the photos, I can see evidence of water stains/damage inside the canopy
which supports Mr Ps claims that it leaks. I can also see some panels are misaligned and
not sitting level with others. Equally, in one picture, there appears to be a large gap between
the panels and the coating appears to be wearing away. These pictures are dated within
weeks of the installation.
I dont purport to be an expert in installations of such structures but for the above reasons,
Im not persuaded a reasonable person looking at these pictures and emails would conclude
this canopy had been installed with reasonable skill and care and it was fit for purpose.
Especially if its leaking from the inside as presumably one of the main purposes of the
canopy is to keep rainwater out.
Its clear there was communication between the two parties about the above as Mr P
confirms in writing the agreed remedial actions. Thereafter, T says repairs would be carried
out and the required parts had been delivered. In light of this evidence, I consider it
reasonable to say the canopy wasnt fitted with reasonable care and skill meaning it wasnt
fit for purpose.
Ive carefully considered the comments made by company R who recently looked at thecanopy. Although I note Santanders comments about their impartiality, I consider them to be
independent and theyve provided commentary about the stability and safety of the canopy
in addition to providing quotes for a replacement. I find Rs findings are consistent with Mr
Ps communication with T about the issues. In the absence of any other evidence to
contradict it, I consider it fair to rely on their comments.
R comments the roof is showing signs of discolouration which in their opinion would normally
happen after five to seven years. Here, the canopy has been installed for less than three
years and theres no evidence to indicate there is any other reason for this premature
deterioration. Im not persuaded a reasonable person would expect a brand new canopy to
show signs of such wear after such a period of time. For that reason, Im also not convinced
the goods were of satisfactory quality meaning there was a further breach of contract. Rs
comments about the stability and safety of the canopy further supports my belief it wasnt
installed with reasonable skill.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded the canopy was of satisfactory quality, nor
was it installed with reasonable care and skill meaning there was a breach of contract.
Where this happens, the CRA allows Mr P to ask for a repeat performance to put the
problems right which is what happened. A repair was carried out in May 2021 (although
what exactly was fixed is unclear) and based on Rs comments, its clear issues remain.
Mr P says he has lost confidence in T and doesnt want a further repair. Given what has
happened, T no longer trading and the significance of the issues, I can understand why he
feels that way. Based on Rs concerns about the stability and safety, I dont consider a
further repair to be a reasonable remedy. Equally, in light of the quotes for a new canopy
(between £5,900 to £7,500), I dont consider replacement to be a fair remedy. I say this
because it exceeds what Mr P contracted to pay (£3,900) meaning he would be put in a
better position had this situation not occurred.
I concluded by saying, I consider the most fair way to put things right is for Santander to 
allow Mr P one of the following remedies which are permitted under the CRA.
1. Price reduction of £900  meaning Mr P would keep the canopy but he wouldnt be
required to pay the outstanding amount of £900, which is the amount he still owes to
fulfil the contract;
2. Rejection of the goods  Santander to refund the £3,000 Mr P paid for the canopy
plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
In addition, Santander to cover the costs of its removal and disposal and pay for any
reasonable remedial works on Mr Ps house as a result of its installation.
In response to the provisional decision, Santander said they had no further comments to 
make. Mr P confirmed he wished to reject the goods.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im not satisfied Santander acted fairly when considering the section 75 claim. I find there 
was a breach of contract by T as the canopy wasnt of satisfactory quality nor was it fitted 
with reasonable skill and care. So to put things right, Santander must allow Mr Pto reject the goods as outlined above.
Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
To put things right, Santander UK Plc must:
- Allow Mr P to reject the goods;
- Refund the £3,000 Mr P paid for the canopy plus pay 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
- Pay the cost of the canopys removal and disposal and pay for any reasonable 
remedial works on Mr Ps house as a result of its installation.
* If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman