DRN-2641694
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a medical expenses
claim they made on their travel insurance policy. In particular, they feel the policy
documentation is unclear and misleading.
What happened
Mrs and Mr P have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In July 2019, Mrs and Mr Ps son was abroad on holiday with friends. Unfortunately, he was
in an accident and suffered injuries which needed medical treatment. Mr P got in touch with
Aviva to make a medical expenses claim.
Aviva turned down Mr Ps claim. It told him that dependent children were only covered by the
policy if they were travelling with the account holder, or with a close relative. As Mrs and Mr
Ps son was travelling with friends, Aviva said he wasnt covered by the policy.
Mrs and Mr P were unhappy with Avivas decision. They said that Mrs P had checked the
policy documentation and had been satisfied that their son would be covered for his trip.
They felt the policy wording failed to adequately disclose what was and wasnt covered and
that there were discrepancies between the front cover of the policy booklet and the actual
wording. And they said the policy summary had led them to believe their son would be
covered. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought the policy terms and conditions made it clear that the claim wasnt
covered. So he thought it was fair for Aviva to turn it down.
Mrs and Mr P disagreed. They felt their concerns regarding the clarity of the policy
documentation hadnt been addressed.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for Aviva to turn down the claim. I said:
Mrs and Mr P accept that given their son was travelling without being accompanied by one
of the account holders, or a close relative over the age of 23, the claim strictly isnt covered
by the policy terms. Their complaint centres on whether Avivas policy documentation makes
this sufficiently clear. So it seems to me that the key issues for me to decide are whether the
documentation is clear enough to highlight to policyholders the circumstances when
dependent children will be covered. And if it isnt, whether I think this caused Mrs and Mr P
to lose out.
The clarity of the policy documentation
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must provide clear, fair and not misleading
information about their policies so that policyholders are able to make an informed choice
about the cover they need. So Ive looked closely at whether I think Aviva met its regulatory
obligations.
Ive considered the 2017 policy summary, the front cover of the 2018 policy booklet and the
April 2019 policy booklet, which were provided to me by Aviva, the bank and Mrs and Mr P,
to see how clearly the eligibility for dependent children is set out and whether it shouldve
been clear
The first page of the policy summary says:
Children are eligible if they are aged under 18 years old (or under 23 years old and in full
time education and living at home outside of term time).
This doesnt explain that cover for dependent children only applies if theyre accompanied by
an account holder or close relative. The full extent of dependent child cover isnt set out until
page 7 of the policy summary. Looking only at the front page of the summary document, I
can understand why a policyholder might think that any child aged under 18, or under 23 and
in full time education (as Mrs and Mr Ps son was) would be covered for their trip. Especially
as the summary is intended to be a snapshot of the main things the policy covers.
Ive then turned to consider the policy wording itself. The front page of the policy booklet
says:
Children must be under 18 years of age (under 23 years of age if in full time education and
living at home outside of term time).
The full eligibility criteria for children isnt explained until page 14 of the policy. So again, I
can understand why if they only took the front cover of the policy together with the policy
summary, without reading the full eligibility terms and conditions, Mrs and Mr P mightve
thought their son would be covered for his trip.
I dont currently think Avivas policy documentation is as clear as it couldve been. I think
there does appear to be a conflict between the child eligibility criteria set out on the front
pages of the policy summary and booklet and the actual full eligibility criteria detailed further
on in the documents. And as Ive explained, I can understand why this may lead to confusion
for policyholders. But in order for me to find this should mean that Aviva pays the claim or
compensation, I need to be satisfied that any failures in the clarity of its documentation led to
Mrs and Mr P losing out. So Ive next considered whether I think this was the case.
Did any lack of clarity in the policy documents cause Mrs and Mr P to lose out?
Mrs and Mr P feel very strongly that the policy documentation led them to think their son
would be covered. And on this basis, they didnt arrange alternative insurance which would
likely have covered his trip and his claim. Ive thought carefully about this.
I do think that the policy wording set out on page 14 clearly indicated the restrictions on child
eligibility. And Ive noted the front cover of the policy states at the top of the text box in bold:
Please take the time to read this booklet as it contains important information. So I think
Aviva pointed out that the information on the front wasnt the full extent of policy cover. It
seems to me that this ought to have prompted Mrs and Mr P to check the policy more fully to
ensure it met their needs.
And I also need to take into account the annual eligibility statements that Mrs and Mr Ps
bank sent to them, setting out the eligibility requirements for the insurances that were
attached to their account. Ive seen a copy of one of those letters, addressed to Mrs P and
dated July 2018, around a year before the claim. This clearly sets out, on the front page, the
full child eligibility criteria. While this information was sent by the bank, it highlighted Avivas
own eligibility requirements in a very clear and understandable format.So in the round, I currently think that the totality of the information Mrs and Mr P received
about their cover meant that they shouldve been aware that their son wouldnt be covered
for any holidays he took without his parents or a close relative. This means I think they
shouldve been reasonably aware that hed need alternative insurance for his trip. And it
follows that I dont think I can fairly say that theyve lost out as a result of anything Avivas
done wrong.
Taking the above into account, I currently think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to turn
down Mrs and Mr Ps claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence they wanted me to consider.
Aviva didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mrs and Mr P disagreed with my provisional decision and Ive summarised their response:
Their primary dispute isnt about the decline of their claim. The complaint centres on 
the fact that their bank; their insurer and I all fail to see the key role the policy 
summary and key facts documentation play in consumers understanding;
Mrs P had needed to quickly check whether her son would be covered by the travel 
policy, due to providing care to her father at the same time. Having checked the 
policy summary and the key facts, she was satisfied that he would be adequately 
covered by the policy;
If either the summary or key facts had been clearer; Mrs P wouldve understood her 
son wouldnt be covered and wouldve made alternative insurance arrangements at 
little additional expense;
Insurers have a duty of care and responsibility in terms of the clarity of their 
documentation. They accept that policyholders have a responsibility to familiarise 
themselves with the policy wording, but this isnt reflective of how most policyholders 
live their lives. They expect insurers to be fair;
The bank had noticed the missing clause from the policy documentation and had 
included it in its own correspondence. Mrs P hadnt seen this though and had relied 
on the key facts and policy summary;
Theyre disgusted that both the bank and Aviva are trying to hide behind terms and 
conditions to turn down a claim. Aviva had failed to disclose a material fact and it was 
unfair that policyholders had to bear the brunt of its shortcomings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr P, I still think it was fair for Aviva to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised Mr Ps detailed response to my provisional decision; Id like to 
reassure him and Mrs P that Ive carefully considered everything theyve said and sent us. 
Id also like to offer my condolences for their loss. I understand that at the time they were 
thinking about their sons insurance cover; Mrs P was acting as a carer and was in an 
upsetting situation.
In my provisional decision, I accepted that neither the key facts nor the policy summary 
made it as clear as it couldve been that children would only be covered in certain situations. 
And I agreed that this could potentially lead to confusion for policyholders. But I also explained that in order for me for find that this meant Aviva needed to pay the claim, or 
compensation, I needed to be satisfied that any failures in the clarity of the policy 
documentation had led to Mrs and Mr P losing out.
Mrs and Mr P say that most policyholders only check the key facts and policy summary to 
understand what their policy covers. But Im still satisfied that the front page of the policy 
terms and conditions, which form the basis of the contract between Mrs and Mr P and Aviva, 
pointed out that the information given on it wasnt the full extent of cover and that the policy 
wording needed to be checked. I consider this ought to have prompted Mrs and Mr P to 
check the policy wording and the eligibility criteria to check if it was suitable to cover their 
son. And Im satisfied that the full eligibility criteria within the policy terms did make the 
eligibility requirements clear.
Ive issued a separate decision about Mrs and Mr Ps bank and its regulatory obligations in 
terms of the insurances attached to the packaged account. But as I noted in my provisional 
decision; the eligibility statement it sent to Mrs P in July 2018; around a year before the 
claim; set out the full child eligibility criteria very clearly. 
So taking together all of the information Mrs and Mr P were provided about their travel 
insurance policy and the level of cover it offered, Im still persuaded that they ought 
reasonably to have been aware that their son wouldnt be covered if he travelled without a 
close relative or his parents. This means I still think they ought to have realised that hed 
need an alternative policy for his trip. And follows that overall, I dont think that theyve lost 
out because of anything that Aviva has done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman