DRN-2365162
The complaint
Mrs N is complaining that Staveley Head Ltd didnt ask clear questions to gather all the 
information it needed when she applied for a motor insurance policy for her motorhome. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs N contacted Staveley Head  a broker  to arrange an insurance 
policy for a motorhome shed acquired. As part of the application Staveley Head asked her 
whether she or her husband had had any motoring offences in the last five years. Mrs N 
said shed checked the DVLA website which said her husband had two current penalties. 
She also said he had had others in the past, but the website said they were expired. At the 
end of the call Mrs N agreed to take out the insurance policy.
However, shortly afterwards, Staveley Head contacted Mrs N to say she hadnt disclosed an 
SP30 her husband had incurred. And it said there was now an additional premium of 
£97.04. Mrs N queried this as she said shed told the call handler when applying for the 
policy that hed had some expired motoring offences. She says the call handler initially 
disputed that as he said they would have questioned this further had she said this. Mrs N 
asked the call handler to listen to the telephone call she initially had.
Staveley Head listened to the telephone call and acknowledged there was some confusion 
so it agreed to waive its administration fee of £35. But it said it was Mrs Ns responsibility 
to provide all the relevant information and it said she needed to disclose all motor 
offences.
Mrs N remained unhappy with this and asked to cancel some additional products shed 
taken out, which reduced the additional premium to £16.10. But she also maintained shed 
acted fairly and thinks Staveley Head should have asked further questions about the 
penalties.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2020 upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
Staveley Head acted in a capacity as a broker  i.e. it wasnt the insurer. The insurer is the 
company who decides what risk it was and wasnt willing to cover and what premium is 
payable for the insurance policy. Im unable to comment on the actions of the insurer in 
this decision.
Staveley Head has said it was Mrs Ns responsibility to provide all the information the 
insurer needed to know. But, as a broker, Staveley Head was acting on Mrs Ns behalf in 
arranging the insurance policy. And it was required to present the full risk profile to the 
insurer on Mrs Ns behalf. So it needed to ask Mrs N sufficiently clear questions to gather 
all the information the insurer needed to know  including whether Mrs N or her husband 
had had any motoring offences in the last five years.
Its not in dispute that Staveley Head asked Mrs N whether she or her husband had had 
any motoring offences in the last five years. But the issue is whether I think it should have 
asked further questions following Mrs Ns answer.
Mrs N said shed been on the website and disclosed the unspent offences and said he 
has other ones in the past but theyve all expired, I have been on the gov.uk website and 
those are the two that are now current.
I think the call handler should have been aware from Mrs Ns response that her husband 
had had other motoring offences on the DVLA website. So I think it should have asked 
Mrs N when her husband had received these fixed penalties. Had it done so, I dont think 
it would have misrepresented the actual risk to the insurer.
However, Mrs N has had full use of the insurance policy. And shed paid the premium to 
reflect the risk the insurer considered. So I think its fair that Mrs N pays this and I dont 
think Staveley Head needs to refund any of the premium Mrs N paid. But I do think this 
matter has caused her some distress and inconvenience. So I think Staveley Head should 
pay her £75 in compensation.
Mrs N responded to my provisional decision and she said she wanted to emphasise that 
Staveley Head lied when she queried what shed said on the initial call. She said it had 
told her it had listened to it and that she hadnt mentioned the expired offence. She said 
she appreciated an award for distress and inconvenience. But she said this matter has 
been ongoing on for over a year. And she didnt not feel that the amount reflects Staveley 
Heads bad and potentially unlawful practice.
Staveley Head didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mrs Ns comments into account but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision. 
I acknowledge Mrs N doesnt think the compensation award Ive recommended reflects 
what she considered to be Staveley Heads bad and potentially unlawful practice. But I 
should set out that this service isnt the regulator of the insurance industry. So its not our 
role to fine and punish a business. We are a dispute resolution service and our role is to 
resolve a dispute between a consumer and a business. We look to put things right where 
something has gone wrong.
As I said, Staveley Head should have been aware from Mrs Ns response that her 
husband had had other motoring offences on the DVLA website. So I think it should have 
asked Mrs N when her husband had received these fixed penalties. Had it done so, I dont 
think it would have misrepresented the actual risk to the insurer.But, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think shes specifically lost out as a result 
of this, because she has ended up paying the annual premium she would have paid had 
Staveley Head done what it should have done.
I dont think Staveley Head has deliberately sought to act in an underhand way  I think 
its simply made a mistake. I still think £75 is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused Mrs N. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Staveley Head Ltd to 
pay Mrs N £75 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman