DRN-3649016
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank PLC wont refund money she lost to an investment 
scammer. 
What happened
Mrs M was contacted by a friend on social media. This friend told her to contact an individual 
called Ash who would help her make easy money. Mrs M was unaware that her friends 
social media account had been hacked. 
Mrs M contacted Ash about the investment and Ash told her to send payments to a crypto 
exchange company (Moonpay). Mrs M proceeded to make three Visa debit card payments 
(linked to her current account) totalling £1,601.95 on 7 February 2022. 
Mrs M asked Ash for this money back and Ash told her to send another £1,500. Mrs M 
attempted to but this payment was blocked by Barclays. Mrs M reported to Barclays that 
shed been scammed. 
Barclays was unable to confirm whether Mrs M had carried out any research or checks 
before sending her payments. It concluded that at the time of the payments she logged onto 
her mobile banking to confirm the payments were legitimate, so it chose not to refund them. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs M referred her complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think Barclays should do anything 
differently. She concluded Mrs M had no valid chargeback options. She also didnt think the 
payments were particularly unusual when considering Mrs Ms normal account usage. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She said her earlier larger payments were to a family member. She said 
she couldnt have known she was being scammed if Barclays didnt warn her. Mrs M asked 
for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mrs M.
Barclays dont appear to have considered chargeback claims in this case but Ive thought 
about whether this was an option for her. Mrs M paid Moonpay - a legitimate crypto 
exchange and would have received a service from them which would have involved 
changing her £sterling into Bitcoin before sending it to the wallet address she supplied it 
with.
 
I appreciate Mrs M was guided by the scammer on the steps to follow but Moonpay would 
have done what she asked them to do. Her disagreement is with the cruel scammer, not 
Moonpay. Barclays could only have processed chargeback claims against the recipient of 
Mrs Ms payments, which was Moonpay. I consider Mrs M stood no reasonable prospect of 
success if Barclays had processed chargeback claims for her and so I dont think Barclays 
acted unreasonably by choosing not to do so.
Fraud prevention
I dont think Barclays could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Mrs M 
lost. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a 
customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms 
and conditions of the account, Mrs M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where she authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
Ive taken account of what Mrs M has said and whilst I appreciate Mrs Ms earlier larger 
payments was to a family member, I dont think the three payments to Moonpay were so 
unusual that Barclays ought to have stopped them. Barclays said she confirmed the 
payments as legitimate via her mobile banking and Im satisfied these were proportionate 
checks for Barclays to confirm that she had indeed authorised the payments. When Mrs M 
attempted a further payment of £1,500, Barclays blocked it. Its not for me to determine what 
systems Barclays should use to identify payments as suspicious but I dont consider letting 
the first three payments through were unreasonable of Barclays. 
 
This means that as Barclays didnt interact with Mrs M at the time of the payments  Im 
satisfied Barclays didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to prevent the payments before 
they were sent. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mrs Ms loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman