DRN-2293446
The complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement financed 
by Vauxhall Finance plc was not of satisfactory quality. He seeks a return of payments made 
on the agreement and compensation.
What happened
 Mr S tells us that the vehicle was acquired from a dealer Ill refer to as D in August 2019. 
He says that he took a test drive - prior to entering the finance agreement - during which he 
noticed the vehicle was pulling to the left. Mr S states that D agreed to repair the issue. Mr S 
explains that after collecting the vehicle he noticed the fault was still apparent and the repair 
hadnt been completed. Mr S says he also identified several other faults and told D he 
wanted to reject the vehicle. Mr S states that he had the vehicle inspected by a local garage 
Ill refer to as AC. And that this was done on 17 September 2019. Although this inspection 
didnt find any issues with the vehicle, he didnt think it had been performed thoroughly. And 
he says that a further inspection was then arranged by Vauxhall which was carried out by a 
company Ill call DK.
Mr S also reports that he was forced to replace a tyre. He says this blew due to his hitting a 
kerb as a result of the reported fault with the vehicle. Mr S states he didnt use the vehicle 
after 25 September the day before DKs inspection. Mr S later advised us that hed been 
made bankrupt.
Vauxhall told us that the vehicle had been independently inspected by DK. And the 
inspection had revealed minor issues with the tyre pressure monitor and the wheel 
alignment. It said the issues could easily be resolved by small adjustments. And it didnt 
believe they warranted rejection. It later advised that the vehicle had been repossessed due 
to Mr S bankruptcy and it had written off the debt.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 September 2020. I said that I was 
minded to uphold the complaint but only in part. And that I thought Vauxhall should pay for 
the cost of the vehicle inspection carried out by AC. But I didnt think it had acted unfairly in 
not accepting Mr S request to reject the vehicle.
Both parties have now replied, and I thank them for their respective responses. Vauxhall 
didnt have anything to add. Mr S didnt agree with my provisional decision. And he raised a 
number of issues mostly relating to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and how he thought it 
should be applied to his complaint. 
Ive considered the further submissions but for reasons Ill explain Im not minded to change 
my provisional view. This is largely repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S experienced problems with this vehicle. And that he was disappointed 
with its overall quality. And whilst his bankruptcy isnt directly linked to this complaint, I 
acknowledge that hes been going through a difficult time. I also confirm that his bankruptcy 
has no bearing on his statutory rights relating to the quality of the vehicle. It would only affect 
the manner in which any financial award arising from this complaint would have to be paid.
Mr S conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Vauxhall supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
During the course of the complaint Mr S has made several references to the law. And how 
he feels it should be applied to this complaint. 
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP). These can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into account relevant:
 law and regulations;
 regulators rules guidance and standards;
 codes of practice;
and
  (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Relevant legislation here includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). So Ive taken it into 
account. But that doesnt mean that my decision will necessarily be the same as, for 
example, a court might reach were Mr S to have brought a claim for breach of contract.
Whilst Mr S has also referred me to the law relating to promissory estoppel, I dont think 
this adds substantially to his case. It simply means that promises made to induce someone 
to enter a contract may be enforceable. In the context of this complaint this would require 
that if D promised to correct the issue of the vehicle pulling it is required to do so. As I 
understand it after DKs report D suggested Mr S took the vehicle to his local manufacturers 
agent for the required adjustments to be made. So it appears that D was willing to meet its 
obligations.
Mr S also commented in his reply to my provisional decision that we seem to have got hung 
up on how severe or minor these faults were when really, it doesnt matter. I simply needed 
to prove their existence.
I disagree with his view on this point and Ill explain why.
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. But it doesnt include aspects about which the consumer knew, 
or which ought to have been apparent upon any inspection made by the consumer.
The presence of a fault doesnt necessarily mean that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. A reasonable person wouldnt expect a used vehicle to be in perfect condition. And 
its to be expected that a vehicle which has covered 31,000 miles before supply may have 
some minor issues. In plain terms, its whether the fault or a combination of them is sufficient 
in degree to render the vehicle such that it doesnt conform to contract. 
 
Mr S complaint is that the vehicle was supplied with various faults. Apart from the vehicle 
pulling left, Mr S mentioned issues with the speedometer; fog light; tyre pressure monitor; 
and fuel gauge.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive seen a vehicle inspection report prepared by DK. This report confirms that the tyre 
pressure monitor was connected to the incorrect wheels. But it stated that the readings were 
only inaccurate to a small degree. And it said the vehicle pulled to the left. An issue it felt 
could be easily corrected by a wheel alignment. It didnt find any fault with the fuel gauge, 
speedometer or fog light.
I dont find that anything in the information provided indicates the vehicle wasnt safe. DKs 
report suggested only a minor correction whilst driving was required. And both the issues 
identified by DK wouldve been easily resolved.
As Mr S knew about the vehicle pulling when he acquired the vehicle, it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to allow it to be rejected on that basis. And as tyre pressures should be checked 
regularly and that is also easily achieved by a manual device it would be disproportionate to 
allow rejection of the vehicle on this basis.
In its final response letter Vauxhall indicated that Mr S had been advised by D to bring the 
vehicle in for the adjustments to be made. I think that was a fair and reasonable approach 
and I dont find it made any error in not accepting the rejection of the vehicle. As Mr S was 
previously advised to have the vehicle examined at his local garage, I think it reasonable he 
recovers the cost of that inspection which was £90.
I accept what Mr S has said about his choosing not to use the vehicle after DKs report. But 
whilst I respect his views, I dont think this was necessary and it was always open to him to 
bring the vehicle in for repairs. As the vehicle was available and any impairment was minor, I 
dont think any award in respect of loss of use is required.
Although Ive not found the presenting issues meant the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, I recognise that they were the type of item that should have been identified at a pre -
supply check. And then corrected. Particularly as one of the issues had also been identified 
during a test drive. Mr S shouldnt have had the inconvenience of needing the vehicle to be 
inspected so soon after supply. I think a modest award to reflect this inconvenience would be 
reasonable.Putting things right
Vauxhall now needs to take the following action:
1. Refund £90, being the cost of the diagnostic check by AC together with simple 
interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement;
2. Pay £50 for distress and inconvenience.
My understanding is that the sums awarded would need to be paid to the Insolvency 
Practitioner whose details are presumably already known to Vauxhall Finance plc.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint but only in 
part.
In full and final settlement of this complaint I require Vauxhall Finance plc to take the action 
that Ive stipulated in the immediately preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman