DRN-2069542
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as The Woolwich) mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2002 in connection with a 
re-mortgage. 
What happened
Mrs H applied for a re-mortgage. She said the policy had been mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the basis that Mrs H had a 
pre-existing medical condition, so the policy was not suitable for Mrs H and she hadnt 
been given enough clear information to make an informed choice. 
Barclays disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note 
on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I have decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint for the reasons set out below.
Barclays said the PPI was bought from a sales representative during a meeting. It was an 
advised sale so Barclays had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs H and it had to 
give Mrs H enough clear information so she could make an informed choice.
Barclays produced a copy of the PPI policy which Mrs H most likely bought at the time of 
the sale. Barclays said their adviser did enough to tell Mrs H about the exclusion clause 
in the policy and that the adviser would have explained it would not cover her pre-
existing medical condition. 
I have looked at the PPI terms in the policy, and it says it will not cover any condition the 
consumer knew about before the start date or for which the consumer got advice, treatment 
or counselling from any doctor in the 12 months immediately before the start date of the 
policy.
This is important because Mrs H has confirmed she had her pre-existing medical 
condition before the start date of the policy; she was on three different types of 
medication; she was seeing a specialist for treatment and she had taken time off work 
due to the condition. I think the exclusion clause in the policy means she would not have 
been able to make a claim for her medical condition.
I think it is possible that Mrs H may have continued with her purchase without being 
aware of the full detail of the exclusion clause. So I think Barclays did something wrong 
in the way it sold PPI to Mrs H.
So I think the exclusion clause meant the policy was not suitable for Mrs Hs needs and 
this clause should have been highlighted to her more clearly. I am satisfied that Barclays 
probably didnt highlight this significant feature in a clear way to Mrs H during the sale. As 
a result, this was a failing in the sale. I think that if Mrs H had been properly informed about 
the exclusion, she would not have gone ahead with buying the PPI policy given her 
medical circumstances at the time.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy was mis-sold to Mrs H, so I uphold this 
complaint. I think Barclays has to put things right for Mrs H.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK Plc should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI. So Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Refund all the PPI premiums to Mrs H
Pay 8%simple interest on the premiums calculated from when each payment was 
made by Mrs H to the day when she gets the refund*
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy and/or received a payment for 
high commission, Barclays Bank UK Plc can take off what she got for the claim 
and/or for the high commission from the amount it owes her.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK Plc must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK Plc should put things 
right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman