DRN-3026024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A, who are represented by a claims management company (CMC) complain 
that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected their claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in 
respect of a timeshare purchase.
What happened
In June 2016 Mr and Mrs A purchased a points-based membership and 8,500 points from a 
company I will call D at a cost of £12,000. This was funded in part by a fixed term loan from 
Shawbrook. I gather they surrendered points from a third-party provider in exchange for 
more points from D. 
They have told Shawbrook and this service that they were approached by a representative 
from D and invited to attend a meeting. At that lengthy meeting they made the decision to 
join and purchase the points. These could be exchanged for holidays across Ds portfolio 
(subject to the type of points purchased).
After the sales presentation Mr and Mrs A completed the necessary paperwork to complete 
the purchase. Our understanding of how timeshare sales typically took place, would suggest 
that most of the sale was verbal from the sales agent and that paperwork would normally be 
provided after the consumers said they were interested in going through with the purchase.
Mr and Mrs A believed the product to have been misrepresented and that they were treated 
unfairly during the sale. They say there were not told the product was to be held in perpetuity 
and they were led to believe D was an exclusive members club. They also have said that D 
has been sold to another owner which had resulted in staff redundancies and this means 
there is no means of selling fractional points. 
They made a claim to Shawbrook in June 2018. It concluded there had not been any 
misrepresentation. The CMC brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr and Mrs A.
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
In this case, s 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says: If the debtor under a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within s 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction 
financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation 
or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr and Mrs A paid for goods or services using 
certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible. 
The key issue I need to decide in Mr and Mrs As case is whether Shawbrooks decision to 
decline their s 75 claim was fair. To decide this, I must consider whether Mr and Mrs As 
claim meets the requirements of s 75, as set out by the CCA. These criteria include the 
following points, which are in dispute in this case:
(a) There must be the required relationship between the debtor, creditor, and supplier; 
and
(b)  (b) There must be a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the 
supplier. 
Unless the above criteria are met in the circumstances of this case, I wouldnt consider 
Shawbrook to have acted unfairly when refusing the claim. Ill consider each of these points 
in turn. 
Is there an established link between the debtor, creditor, and supplier? 
As explained briefly above, one of the criteria for s 75 to apply is that there must be the 
correct relationship between Mr and Mrs A (the debtors), the relevant supplier of the product 
or service they are complaining about (the supplier), and Shawbrook (the creditor). This is 
also known as the DCS chain and is required by the CCA. It isnt something that is 
discretionary, and, without it, Shawbrook wouldnt be required to refund the price Mr and Mrs 
A paid for the goods or services they are unhappy with in these circumstances. I am satisfied 
the chain is unbroken. 
Was there a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier? 
Turning first to misrepresentation; in summary, from what the CMC has told us, I understand 
Mr and Mrs A feel the product was misrepresented to them because they were led to believe 
they would have easy access to exclusive holiday resorts. They also say they were not 
made aware that the ownership was in perpetuity.
Ive considered the common law position, as well as the Misrepresentation Act 1967 when 
deciding whether a misrepresentation is most likely to have been made in the circumstances 
of this case.
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier in the way the 
CMC has alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that the supplier made a false statement of fact when selling Mr and Mrs A the 
holiday products in June 2016. In other words, that they told Mr and Mrs A something that 
wasnt true in relation to one or more of the points they have raised. I would also need to be 
satisfied that the misrepresentation was material in inducing them to enter the contract. This 
means I would need to be persuaded that Mr and Mrs A reasonably relied on the false 
statement when deciding to buy the membership and points.
The difficulty I have is identifying what as actually said at the time of the sale. I have Mr and 
Mrs As recollections from 2016, but these run contrary to the documentation. From looking at the available documentary evidence from the time of sale, I cant see anything to show 
that the products were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs A. I gather that D has told the bank 
that Mr and Mrs A have made multiple bookings in 2017 and 2018. Furthermore, I note they 
didnt take advantage of the 14-day cooling off period so I must presume that at that point 
they were happy to proceed having had further time to consider their purchase. 
Also I have seen no evidence which shows they were told that the resorts were exclusive to 
this category of membership. As our investigator has explained Ds resorts are also available 
to two other timeshare clubs and so they are not exclusive. That has not prevented Mr and 
Mrs A making bookings. I appreciate that the representatives at such events will have 
emphasised the positive elements of membership and stressed the benefits Mr and Mrs A 
would obtain. That does not mean that I can say they misrepresented the product.
With regard to the issue of the points being held in perpetuity the documentation signed by 
Mr and Mrs A at the time of purchase sets out in extensive detail the options available to 
them for terminating the agreement. The Key Information Document ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION ON TERMINATION OF THE CONTRACT' explained this in detail to Mr and 
Mrs A.
Finally, they did not acquire fractional points and so there is no basis for the claim that the 
subsequent sale of D would have an impact on their ability to sell such points. I have seen 
no evidence that the takeover has had any impact on Mr and Mrs As agreement or their 
access to holiday accommodation.
Overall, I havent been provided with sufficient evidence to show Mr and Mrs A were told 
something that wasnt true or that there are any other grounds for finding a 
misrepresentation was made in the circumstances of this case. So, I dont think theres 
enough evidence to show it is more likely than not that the holiday products were 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs A. 
In conclusion, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs A met the requirements to make a successful 
claim under s 75 of the CCA in the circumstances of this case. At the least, I dont think 
theres enough evidence to show a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the 
suppliers for which Shawbrook could also be held liable for under this section of the Act. This 
means I dont think Shawbrook acted unfairly by declining Mr and Mrs As s 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about 
Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman