DRN-3311637
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about St Andrews Insurance Plcs decision to decline a claim she 
made under her home contents insurance policy. St Andrews applied the fraud terms and 
cancelled Mrs Bs policy.  
What happened
Mrs B bought a home contents insurance policy in 2009. The policy renewed in December 
2019 and was underwritten by St Andrews. 
In July 2020 Mrs B contacted St Andrews to report an escape of water from the toilet 
cistern. St Andrews told Mrs B she wasnt covered for any building cover as her policy only 
provided cover for contents. She decided not to make a claim at the time, so St Andrews 
only noted it down as an enquiry. 
Mrs B called back in August 2020 to make a claim on the policy and told St Andrews about 
the damage caused by the leak. In late September 2020 Mrs B sent St Andrews a list of her 
damaged contents and also a claim for alternative accommodation. St Andrews considered 
the claim and after assessing it, St Andrews declined the claim and cancelled the policy 
using the policy fraud terms.
Mrs B complained but St Andrews didnt uphold her complaint, so she referred it to our 
service. 
Mrs B didnt agree because she says she fully complied with the policy terms and conditions. 
She thought it was unfair that St Andrews cancelled the policy and declined the claim. She 
also says St Andrews discriminated against her in its responses. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this is a serious matter for Mrs B. St Andrews isnt paying for the damage to her 
home and it cancelled the policy in a way which may have implications for her obtaining 
insurance in the future. So, I understand that Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision not 
to uphold her complaint. 
Theres a lot of information about this claim Mrs B made, and Ive looked through everything 
provided. The detail is well-known to both Mrs B and St Andrews, so I havent described the 
claim in any great detail here. Thats because the key issue of complaint is St Andrews 
decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy, and whether it was fair to do so for the 
reasons it gave. Ill comment on any relevant evidence where appropriate to explain my 
decision.
St Andrews can cancel a policy if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In 
this case, St Andrews say, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mrs B did breach the 
fraud condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy in relation to 
this, and they say:
Fraud
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the 
honesty of our policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly:
provides information to us that is not true in order to obtain cover or cover at a 
lower premium or on better terms; or
provides information or documentation to us that is fraudulent or dishonestly 
exaggerates a claim; or
otherwise acts or behaves fraudulently in relation to your policy;
then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent act and we:
will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim;
will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act;
will retain any premium you have paid;
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf and any costs and 
expenses incurred in respect of a fraudulent claim, whether these payments 
were made or costs and expenses incurred before or after the fraudulent act;
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf for any other 
claims arising after the fraudulent act.
Based on the above wording, I think St Andrews is entitled to cancel the policy if a 
policyholder has breached this condition. It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has 
acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need to decide if St Andrews acted reasonably on 
raising the fraud condition and taking the action it has.
So Ive looked at what St Andrews has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair 
for it to suspect fraud and, therefore, cancel the policy. As Ive said, theres a lot of 
information about this claim so Ill concentrate on some of the main points.
Exaggerated claim
Mrs B initially contacted St Andrews in July 2020 and explained that the leak was identified 
about ten days earlier. She also said that the leak had been diagnosed and repaired. She 
then contacted St Andrews in August 2020 reporting damage to the carpets and bath 
panels. After St Andrews sent out its agents to look at the carpets, she then contacted       
St Andrews again in late August 2020 to report damage to some of her furniture because 
she was advised to do so by the agents. 
St Andrews say they were first notified of the damage to a significant number of items in late 
September 2020. The claim amounted to over £40,000 so St Andrews asked Mrs B for 
further information and evidence. 
The terms say:
You must be able to prove and substantiate your loss. To assist with this we may 
request you to provide reasonable additional information at your own expense. 
Examples are:
original purchase receipts, valuations, invoices, instruction booklets, bank 
statements or photographs
purchase dates of lost or damaged items
for damaged items, confirmation by a suitably qualified expert that the item you 
are claiming for is beyond repairWhilst I appreciate Mrs B has said she provided evidence such as photos and some 
receipts, this isnt an exhaustive list. I dont think it was unreasonable for St Andrews to ask 
for further information to substantiate her claim. Especially as Mrs B told St Andrews that 
she had disposed of the vast majority of the items before they could be inspected by it. 
Mrs B has said that St Andrews agents had inspected the items or had refused to on visits 
to her property and she was told to dispose of them. St Andrews dispute this. I cant be 
certain what Mrs B was told by the agents so where the evidence is unclear or incomplete, I 
base my findings on the balance of probabilities. 
The policy terms say Do not throw away any damaged items before we have had a chance 
to see them, or carry out any non-emergency repairs before we have had a chance to 
inspect them. Mrs B was also told on the initial call with St Andrews not to dispose of the 
items. So Im satisfied that Mrs B would have known not to dispose of the items before        
St Andrews had an opportunity to inspect them. 
Additionally there was no indication of the level of her loss in the initial call, which I would 
have expected her to mention because she has told us her and her son lived at the property 
during this period and so it seems unlikely she wouldnt have known the severity of the 
damage to her belongings during that initial call.
 
So I dont think it was unfair of St Andrews to ask for further reasonable information or 
evidence in relation to the claim as they hadnt had a chance to see or inspect most of the 
items. Especially as certain high value items were disposed of when a number of low value 
items were kept. For example, Mrs B disposed of the Bose speakers which had a high value 
but by contrast she kept the Logitech speakers which are likely to cost significantly less. 
There were also other discrepancies in the information provided by Mrs B such as the image 
of the undamaged designer bag which she claimed was damaged by the leak. But the 
background data of the image indicated that the picture had been taken on 12 October 2020, 
which was after the date of her claim. Also, the GPS data of the image shows the image was 
captured away from Mrs Bs insured property and in the locality of another property she was 
linked to.  
In the circumstances I think it wasnt unreasonable of St Andrews to question the true value 
of Mrs Bs home contents claim based on the evidence that had been provided by Mrs B. 
Occupancy 
In considering the claim St Andrews also raised concerns about Mrs Bs occupancy of the 
insured property. As part of the report St Andrews instructed into the leak, it was reported by 
the surveyors that the leak was possibly ongoing for weeks or even months. The surveyors 
said the extent of the leak was concerning as it was unclear how the loss could have 
reached the reported level whilst going unnoticed if the property was occupied. 
St Andrews carried out further checks which showed Mrs B to be registered at a different 
address on the voters roll. This was later confirmed as a property owned by her husband 
over which she had matrimonial rights. So it asked Mrs B to provide further information 
relating to her permanent residence because it had concerns that the insured address may 
not have been her permanent home. Information provided by Mrs B varied between the 
insured address and this other address. 
And although I cant say that the insured address wasnt Mrs Bs permanent residence Im 
satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for St Andrews to question this especially when considering it in context of the extent of the damage to Mrs Bs contents and her claim for 
alternative accommodation.  
Alternative accommodation
Mrs B told St Andrews in August 2020 that she was unable to stay at the insured address 
and was staying with a friend. No claim was made for alternative accommodation at the time 
and no mention was made of Mrs B having to pay her friend any payment for staying with 
them at their property. Subsequently when Mrs B sent St Andrews the list of her damaged 
contents in September 2020, she also made a claim for £4,200 in alternative 
accommodation costs for three rooms. 
St Andrews asked Mrs B for further information to ascertain the validity of the claim. Mrs B 
initially told St Andrews she was staying with her friend and said her son was staying with 
his friends, but she didnt have their details to provide to it. She later said her son was 
staying with her at her friends property. St Andrews asked Mrs B for more specific details 
about her alternative accommodation, such as the address, but Mrs B said she was unable 
to provide the details requested due to data protection regulations and her friends refusing to 
give permission to provide the details. 
Later Mrs B told St Andrews that her friend hadnt asked for the money, but she had insisted 
on paying her friend the market rate. St Andrews say it is unable to validate the costs 
without the details of the address as requested. In considering the information and the 
concerns St Andrews had about the occupancy of the property it felt Mrs B didnt stay at the 
friends property. 
I understand Mrs B feels the claim for alternative accommodation should have no bearing on 
her home contents claim, but I dont agree. In the circumstances this isnt something that can 
be ignored as the claim was submitted alongside the claim for her damaged contents. 
Having considered the information on this point Im satisfied that St Andrews didnt act 
unfairly in challenging the validity of this element of her claim. 
Having considered these points carefully I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for        
St Andrews to cancel Mrs Bs policy and back date this, and I can see that it acted in 
accordance with the Fraud term of the policy. I havent seen any mistakes in St Andrews 
handling of Mrs Bs claim. Consequently, I see no reason to ask St Andrews to reinstate the 
policy or accept Mrs Bs claim.
Ive also considered Mrs Bs request to have her damaged items returned. St Andrews 
agents were sent to review the damaged contents Mrs B reported as part of her initial claim, 
prior to her sending the full list in September 2020. A number of items were removed and 
considered beyond economical repair. As the items were beyond repair, I dont think           
St Andrews did anything wrong in disposing of them as Mrs B is unlikely to have wanted to 
keep the items in their damaged condition.     
Mrs B also feels St Andrews has discriminated against her in the way it handled the claim. 
St Andrews asked her various questions in relation to her name and that of her friend and 
also queries about her business affairs. Although some of these issues seem unrelated to 
the claim based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied St Andrews was carrying out 
reasonable investigations into Mrs Bs claim to ensure its valid. And I havent seen anything 
to make me think shes been treated differently from other customers  or that other 
customers wouldnt have been questioned further about the evidence put forward in similar 
circumstances. So I dont think Mrs Bs race played any part in the way the claim was 
handled. And I dont think she was treated unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of 
this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman