DRN-3245500
The complaint
Ms D complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided lending that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Ms D took out loans with Everyday Loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable
1 October 2017 £1,800 24 months £145.39 £3,489.36
2 April 2018 £5,000 36 months £302.46 £10,888.56
When Ms D complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and he thought that 
Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong when it provided loan 1 but didnt think it should 
have provided loan 2. 
Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans should do to put things 
right. 
Everyday Loans agreed with what our adjudicator had recommended in respect of loan 1 but 
disagreed that it had done anything wrong when it provided loan 2. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having thought about everything, I agree with our adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. 
As far as I can see, Ms D hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 
except that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided this 
loan  so Im not upholding this part of Ms Ds complaint.
In my decision, Im concentrating on loan 2. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Ms D about her income and expenses  including what she spent on 
her credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Ms Ds credit history. 
Everyday Loans recorded Ms Ds average monthly take home pay was around £2,216 based 
on the information it saw on two payslips. Everyday Loans also took into account nationally 
available statistics when thinking about Ms Ds likely spending and included an additional 
buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional expenses. Based on 
this, Everyday Loans said Ms D shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this 
loan as she should still have had around £77 spare cash left after paying for this loan as she 
was using it to clear other debt currently costing her around £660 each month. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for Everyday Loans to make a fair decision to lend.
Our adjudicator thought Everyday Loans needed to do further checks before lending. I dont 
need to say more about the checks Everyday Loans did because I think the checks 
Everyday Loans did meant the lender already had enough information in front of it to realise 
that this loan looked unsustainable for Ms D. 
I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see that when Ms D applied for this 
loan it worked out that her debt servicing costs to existing creditors were already around 
£1,500 monthly. Like our adjudicator, I think that this amount was such a significant 
proportion of her take home pay it was a clear indication that Ms D had become over-reliant 
on credit and, in reality, was already experiencing financial difficulty. And I think thats borne 
out by the fact that Everyday Loans credit checks showed signs of financial stress. She had 
credit cards close to their limits. Within the 2 months period prior to applying for this loan, 
she had taken out two other new short-term loans and she also had a history of settled credit 
accounts, including payday loans. Her total indebtedness was more than £29,000  which 
I think was a lot for someone with Ms Ds income, even allowing for that fact that she had a 
further £ £257 or so each month from pensions as well as her earnings. 
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Ms Ds credit file showed that managing her 
debt had got beyond her control and it seemed likely she was borrowing from one creditor to 
pay others. I think Everyday Loans should have recognised the serious risk that this loan 
was likely to add to her overall indebtedness and financial difficulty  particularly as the 
monthly repayments for this loan would still mean Ms D needed to spend almost half her 
total income just on meeting her credit commitments. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation and Everyday Loans directly repaid some of Ms Ds outstanding credit before paying the loan balance to her. But I think the scale of her overall debt compared to the 
much lesser value of the loan and the extent of her evident reliance on taking out expensive 
credit would suggest that she would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. And as 
mentioned above, it was in any event unrealistic to expect her to be able to commit to paying 
such a significant level of income towards debt repayments over the three year loan term. 
So I dont think Everyday Loans shouldve provided this loan. 
As Ms D has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with she has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong. I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Ms D hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Ms D in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms D to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Ms D shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms D received as a result of having been given 
loan 2 . The repayments Ms D made towards loan 2 should be deducted from this 
amount. 
If this results in Ms D having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms D bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Ms Ds credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend loan 2. So 
Everyday Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ds credit 
file regarding loan 2 . 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ds complaint about loan 2 and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman