DRN-1675000
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) wouldnt cover the damage to his 
property which he believes was caused by a previous faulty repair 
What happened
Mr S had a maintenance plan with Company A. He had a leak in his loft and Company A 
replaced the expansion pressure vessel.
The following year, Aviva acquired Company A and provided Mr S with his Home 
Emergency insurance cover. 
Four years after the original repair, Mr S had another leak in the same place. Avivas 
plumber said the expansion vessel was the wrong one and replaced it with the correct 
vessel. 
Mr S thought Aviva was responsible for the second leak because Company A, which Aviva 
now owned, had fitted the wrong vessel. Mr S thought liability for the mistake wouldve 
transferred to it, so he asked Aviva to cover the damage caused by the leak. 
Mr S complained to Aviva because he didnt get a straight answer to his request; Aviva 
delayed responding to him, and on several occasions it failed to return his calls. In response 
to his complaint, Aviva directed him to Company B which had contracted the work for the 
first leak to Company A. In turn, Company B told him to ask Aviva. He went back to Aviva 
but it refused to cover the damage, although it paid him £100 for the delays responding to 
his request.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Aviva had made a fair offer in 
response to Mr Ss complaint about its delays. Our investigator then explained that she could 
only look at the issues relating directly to the second repair, which Aviva carried out. Thats 
because the original maintenance plan provided by Company A wasnt a regulated product 
and, therefore, isnt within this services jurisdiction. 
Mr S was unhappy with the outcome because he thought Aviva should be liable for 
Company As mistake.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im aware that recently our service has been in touch with Mr S and he understands 
that I cant look at any part of his complaint which relates to the repair done by Company A. 
This is because the maintenance plan he had wasnt a regulated product when the repair 
was done and falls outside our jurisdiction. When Aviva took over Company A the following 
year, it provided Home Emergency cover for Mr S as a regulated product. So, I can look at 
the way it handled his claim for the second leak and its ancillary service around that.
I can understand that will be frustrating for Mr S because he wants someone to accept 
responsibility for fitting the wrong expansion vessel. Im sorry I cant help him with that 
matter.
Moving on to the issues I can consider, Mr S wasnt unhappy with the second repair. His 
dissatisfaction was with the way Aviva delayed responding clearly to his questions about 
liability, and its subsequent failure to return his calls. Aviva doesnt dispute the delays it 
caused, and it paid Mr S £100 in recognition of that. 
Having looked at the evidence, it seems to me that Aviva completed the (second) repair in 
line with the policy. But there were shortfalls in the way it handled Mr Ss claim for the 
damage caused by the leak. I think Avivas payment of £100 to Mr S is a fair amount for its 
uncertainty around liability in the first instance, followed by its failure to return his calls. I 
realise that this probably wont seem enough for the overall complaint because Mr S doesnt 
have an answer about the liability matter. But it appears that Mr S is satisfied that it 
addresses the shortfalls in service so I dont think Aviva needs to do any more here.
I realise that this will leave the matter unfinished as far as Mr S is concerned, but this 
outcome only addresses the matters within jurisdiction and which I can consider.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman