DRN-4163015
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way Landmark Mortgages Limited administered their 
mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had taken out a mortgage in 2003 which was later transferred to Landmark. 
They complain about:
The way Landmark allocated lump sum overpayments between their mortgage accounts. 
Landmark not reducing their monthly payments after the overpayments, despite repeated 
requests. 
Landmark didnt apply a loyalty discount when they became entitled to it 
Our investigator said Landmark allocated payments in accordance with its usual process or 
Mr and Mrs Ss instructions. She said Landmark told Mr and Mrs S how to cancel their 
monthly overpayments. It cancelled the overpayments in response to their complaint. Our 
investigator said while Landmark made an error when it didnt apply the loyalty discount, it 
had done enough to put this right. 
Mr and Mrs S provided a detailed response, which Ive read carefully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. I need to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and explain my reasons for reaching my 
decision. Im not required to answer each point raised by Mr and Mrs S. I should also explain 
that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Allocation of overpayments
Mr and Mrs S made a lump sum overpayment of £30,000 in May 2014. Landmarks records 
say Mr S called and asked for this to be applied to sub account three only. Landmark wrote 
to Mr and Mrs S at the time confirming how the payment was apportioned. If this wasnt 
consistent with their instructions, or if Mr and Mrs S wanted the payments applied differently, 
they could have raised this at the time.
Mr and Mrs S set up an overpayment arrangement in 2015. This was for a fixed monthly 
amount of about £2,000 divided between their three sub-accounts. 
Mr and Mrs S made lump sum overpayments in 2021. Landmark says it splits overpayments 
globally unless it receives specific instructions from the customer. 
Mr and Mrs S say Landmark should have applied their payments to the longest running 
account to reduce the overall amount of interest theyll pay. Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage sub-
accounts had the same interest rate. While they were due to expire on different dates (in 
2031 and 2032) these were within a six-month period. In fact, Mr and Mrs S repaid their 
mortgage early. But if Mr and Mrs S wanted their overpayments allocated to a specific 
account, they could have given Landmark this instruction when they made the payments or 
set up the monthly overpayments.
In response to Mr and Mrs S complaint in late 2021, Landmark told Mr and Mrs S it would 
move the lump sum payments between the accounts if they confirm how theyd like the 
funds applied. It provided a table with the account numbers, balances and expiry dates to 
assist them. I think this was a fair and reasonable response to this part of Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint, and I wont require Landmark to do more.
Failing to cancel the monthly overpayments 
Mr and Mrs S say that Landmark continued to take payments of about £2,000 from their 
account each month, despite their repeated requests to notch back the overpayments to the 
minimum required.
I havent seen evidence that Mr and Mrs S made repeated requests to cancel the 
overpayments which Landmark didnt action. If they had, this would have been frustrating. 
But I dont think it would have caused them financial loss. If anything, theyd have paid less 
interest as their balance reduced more quickly. Mr and Mrs S made a number of lump sum 
overpayments, so I think its unlikely the monthly overpayments caused them financial 
hardship, and they havent said this was the case. 
When Mr and Mrs S asked about cancelling their monthly overpayments, Landmark 
explained what they needed to do. In response to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, Landmark 
arranged for the overpayment part of their direct debit to be stopped, so that it only takes the 
contractual monthly payment. I think this was a fair and reasonable response to their 
complaint, and I wont require it to do more.Loyalty discount
Landmark agreed it made an error when it didnt apply the loyalty discount to Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage until they raised the matter. It applied the loyalty discount, backdated to when they 
became eligible, and adjusted interest on their account. It offered £50 compensation. I think 
this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve this part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S question whether Landmark carried out a full investigation into the loyalty 
discount and ask that the figures are revisited. As I havent seen anything to persuade me 
Landmark didnt adjust Mr and Mrs Ss account correctly, I dont think its fair and reasonable 
to require this. 
Mr and Mrs S say £50 is a derisory amount given the time theyve spent dealing with the 
matter. Mr and Mrs S did have to ask Landmark to apply the loyalty discount, which would 
have caused some inconvenience. Ive taken into account that Landmark responded to say it 
upheld the complaint and would put matters right. I think £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the amount of inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S in having to raise 
the matter with Landmark.
Other matters
Under our rules, I can only consider the complaint that was brought to us. I cant look into 
other matters that Mr and Mrs S expressed frustrations or concerns about.
An ombudsman issued a final decision about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint relating to a borrow 
back facility. While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S remain unhappy, we cant look into this 
complaint again.
Mr and Mrs S say there are bigger issues here, such as a failure by Landmark to honour 
loyalty discounts, which need to be escalated. As Mr and Mrs S are aware, we arent 
regulators. Mr and Mrs S can refer their concerns to the regulator if they think thats 
appropriate. 
My final decision
My decision is that Landmark Mortgages Limited should pay £50 to Mr and Mrs S, as it 
offered to do (unless of course its already done so). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman