DRN-2551892
The complaint
Mr H is a director of a company Ill refer to as Z and has complained on Zs behalf. Hes
unhappy with the amount hes been charged by Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd (QMT) after he
cancelled his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
For ease of reading Ill refer to Mr H throughout. 
What happened
Mr H took out a policy through QMT, the insurer asked for Mr Hs licence details to verify the
details on his policy. When Mr H provided his licence, the insurer discovered there were
undisclosed motoring offences. Because of this the insurer asked Mr H to pay an additional
premium. Mr H thought the insurer was charging too much for his insurance and cancelled
his policy.
QMT cancelled Mr Hs policy on his behalf and told him that he still owed money for the time
hed been insured. QMT asked Mr H to pay £432.85, Mr H didnt think this was fair and
complained. He said he was up to date with his insurance payments and shouldnt have to
pay anymore. QMT looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said if Mr H had
given the correct information when the policy was taken out the correct premium would have
been applied. Because of this it said Mr H still owed £432.85. Mr H wasnt happy with this
and referred the complaint here.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found
that QMT had charged commission on the original premium and the additional premium
Mr H had been asked to pay by the insurer. He said that as Mr H hadnt been charged the
additional premium by the insurer it wasnt fair for QMT to charge commission on it.
Following this there were counter offers between QMT and our investigator on what Mr H
should pay.
Eventually QMT said it would settle Mr Hs account if he paid them £193.41. Our Investigator
thought this was a fair amount for QMT to charge as it had lost out on commission.
However, Mr H didnt think this was fair. He felt QMT should pay him compensation of
around £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 January 2021 where I said: 
Mr H has complained about the amount hes been charged on cancelling his policy. As the
insurer is responsible for the premium charged, Ive considered that under a separate
complaint. In this decision, I therefore need to consider whether its fair that QMT charge
Mr H the fees associated with cancelling the policy.
Theres a general principle that QMT needs to treat its customers fairly. The Insurance
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) outlines that a firm can apply certain charges
upon cancellation as long as the consumer was made aware of the amount payable. While
this is in relation to the cooling off period, I also think its fair and reasonable to apply the
same principle to fees and charges in commercial policies, even where there isnt a cooling
off period, and throughout the life of the policy. So, Ive looked at whether the fees QMT has
applied were made clear when QMT sold the policy.
QMT hasnt provided a breakdown of how its reached the amount of £193.41 it says Mr H
owes. When a previous offer was made a breakdown was provided so Ive looked at whats
been charged to see if its fair to charge them. Ill then also look at the amounts charged.
QMT said its charged Mr H following the cancellation:
£436.07 for the time on risk with the insurer
£30 arrangement fee
£36.69 charged by the finance company
£188.78 QMT
The terms of business Mr H agreed to when he took out the policy say QMT can charge £30
arrangement fee. They also say QMT will charge up to 25% of the refund if a policy is
cancelled for lost commission, it also says this amount will depend on the insurer. I think
these are clear and as such its fair to charge them. While the terms say QMT can charge up
to 25% for lost commission, its said with the insurer Z was covered with it receives 17.5%
commission. The other two charges are charged by the insurer and finance provider, so I
wont be making a finding on whether those charges are fair in this decision.
Mr H has paid QMT £436.07, which QMT has said is the charge from the insurer. When Ive
looked at both complaints, I can see the insurer has said its charged £435.87 for the time on
risk. As there has been a lot of discussion over what QMT can charge and the insurer has
been consistent on the amount charged for time on risk, Im more persuaded to go with the
insurers figure of £435.87.
If I deduct the amount charged by the insurer for the time on risk from the total premium
charged of £1,150.28, this leaves a refund of premium of £714.41. According to QMTs
terms of business its fair to charge the lost commission of 17.5% on this amount which
equates to £125.02. I therefore think its fair for QMT to charge the following:
£435.87 for the time on risk with the insurer
£36.69 charged by the finance company
£30 arrangement fee
£125.02 for lost commission on the refund
As Mr H has already paid £436.07, this leaves an outstanding balance of £191.51. Im
therefore satisfied its fair and reasonable for QMT to charge Mr H £191.51.
I understand Mr H feels that QMT has caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
However, as this issue has only come about due to Mr H not providing the correct
information when buying Zs policy, I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable
outcome for me to make an award for distress and inconvenience.
QMT responded and asked to clarify that it hadnt provided a breakdown of the £193.41 it 
says Mr H owes as this figure was provided by our investigator. Mr H also responded and 
said he didnt owe anything and should be entitled to compensation for QMTs actions. In 
particular he said: hed continued to be chased for debt he didnt owe; he never agreed to 
the debt being reduced instead it was an attempt at our investigator trying to mediate; a 
consumer is entitled to cancel their insurance at any time and by QMT claiming lost 
commission it affects his consumer rights. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr H. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it. 
I accept QMTs point that the figure of £193.41 was suggested by our investigator. However, 
this was because the investigator didnt feel that QMT had provided a clear breakdown of the 
costs that were outstanding. I dont think that matters however, as Ive made a separate 
finding about the amount that I think its fair and reasonable for QMT to charge. 
Mr Hs referred to consumer rights in his response to us. As Zs policy is a commercial 
contract the rules which apply are different to those in consumer contracts. That being said, 
in this particular case Mr H is able to cancel Zs policy in line with the terms of the agreement 
which means I looked to see that QMT applied the terms and conditions of the agreement 
fairly. However, for the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded it did that. 
Ive also noted that Mr H is unhappy about the way the outstanding debt has been chased. 
In this decision Ive only looked at whether QMT had charged Mr H the correct amount. 
While Im satisfied it hadnt, as a debt was still owed, I dont think QMT have done anything 
wrong. However, if Mr H is unhappy about how the debt has been chased, he would need to 
raise that as a separate issue. 
Im satisfied the other points Mr H raised are covered in my provisional decision above, so I 
wont repeat them here. And Mr H hasnt provided anything to persuade me to depart from 
those findings.
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold this 
complaint. I require Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd to amend the amount it has recorded as Z 
owing to £191.51.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman