DRN-2050309
The complaint
Mr G complains that hes been unable to access online banking for his new account with
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
In early September 2019, Mr G opened a new student account with HSBC. He tried to
register for online banking, and found out that HSBC would have to send him a secure key to
complete the setup. He asked HSBC for that key. He then emailed HSBC a number of times,
first to say he hadnt received the key, then to say not only had he still not received the key,
but HSBC hadnt acknowledged his emails about this.
HSBC finally responded in late November. It said it was having a problem with issuing the
secure keys for some customers, and Mr Gs case had now been raised with the IT team.
But HSBC said that this should have been raised with IT much sooner, and it was sorry
about that. It paid Mr G £200 in compensation. And it said it would be in touch as soon as its
IT team had investigated.
Mr G responded in early December. He was unhappy with the service hed received, and felt
HSBC had been very unprofessional. He didnt want only to be offered compensation, with
the issue still not sorted out. Mr G said he was disabled, and had difficulty visiting a branch.
A few days later he wrote again to say he was still unhappy not to have online banking for
some months.
On the same day, HSBC told Mr G it had reopened his complaint. It then wrote again, to say
that it thought the compensation was fair for what had happened. It hadnt previously been
aware of his disability, but it had suggested some other ways to bank as an alternative whilst
Mr G was waiting for this issue to be resolved, including telephone banking.
Early in January 2020 Mr G wrote again to ask why the issue was still not solved. And he
said he hadnt received a telephone banking code either.
Internal notes made by HSBC on 23 January say that Mr Gs online banking profile hadnt
yet been fixed by HSBCs IT team. It was accidentally missed from the last batch. HSBC
emailed Mr G on 24 January, to say sorry that this was taking longer. HSBC said then that it
would review the compensation to Mr G once the issue was fixed.
On 24 January HSBC wrote to Mr G again. It said his telephone banking code was ordered
on 27 December. It could take up to 7 days for Mr G to receive this phone banking code, it
was sorry if he wasnt given this timescale. (Internal notes show this was sent on 31
January.) HSBC also said Mr Gs complaint about online banking had been escalated, and it
would be in touch once that was resolved.
HSBC emailed Mr G on 29 January to say that as long as he has a telephone banking
number, he will be able to register for online banking. The person who emailed Mr G asked
him to let her know once hed successfully registered.
HSBC said Mr Gs registration for online banking was completed on 30 January, but he
hadnt accessed online banking since then. it has also sent us emails that show what Mr G
had managed to do on 30 January was get to the stage where his secure code shouldve
been posted to him. It was unclear whether the process of allowing Mr G to access online
banking had finally been completed.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr G told us on 10
March that he hadnt been able to access online banking, but a screenshot from HSBC
showed hed registered on 30 January. Our investigator had emailed Mr G on 9 April to
confirm if he had access, but Mr G hadnt replied.
Our investigator thought that HSBC had awarded a fair amount of compensation for what
had gone wrong, and it had resolved Mr Gs concerns, albeit with delays.
Mr G didnt think it was reasonable for HSBC not to let him access his new bank account for
six months, and £200 in compensation wasnt fair. Hed explained to HSBC that he was
disabled and couldnt easily go to a high street branch. He said HSBC had a blas attitude.
He wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman.
Our investigator said Mr G hadnt confirmed when hed got access to online banking, and 
Mr G replied to say he still hadnt. Mr G thought it was irresponsible for HSBC to have 
assumed everything was fine from a screenshot, without contacting him. He hadnt got 
access, as HSBC had again not bothered to send out the secure key. He said hed lost 
interest, as it had all become so stressful. He was relying on friends to use cashpoints to get 
ministatements.
He said he was considering changing banks. And he felt it was excessive to use
both codes and secure keys to access online banking.
Our investigator raised this with HSBC, and it said Mr Gs secure key was sent to him on 30
January 2020. Mr G hadnt tried to access online banking since then. It had recently reissued
the key to him.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said HSBC had sent Mr G the letter he needed
in January, but Mr G hadnt activated his online banking then. Hed also been sent this letter
in December, but hadnt activated the account then either (although it seems likely that what
was sent in December was a telephone banking code, not the secure banking code which is
the final stage needed to access online banking). Our investigator said Mr G was using his
account, and HSBC had sent Mr G the necessary letters, so he didnt think HSBC had to pay
more compensation.
Mr G said hed never received a secure code in a letter. Hed used cash machines with help
from a carer, but hadnt been able to access online banking. He said we were believing
HSBC over him.
Our investigator said that he could only check if HSBC had sent letters. There may have
been problems with the post, but HSBC would send the letter again. Mr G thought HSBC
should find out why he didnt get the letter. Our investigator said we wouldnt expect that. Mr
G wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case was passed to me for a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr G raised his complaint relatively promptly once he found he couldnt access online
banking. But HSBC then took about two months to respond to this. During that time, 
Mr G had no access to online banking. HSBC paid Mr G £200 for this. I think that 
was a fair resolution to Mr Gs complaint up until this point.
After this, HSBC was made aware that Mr G was disabled, and wouldnt easily be 
able to use some of the alternatives such as banking in branch. But unfortunately, 
when HSBC repaired a batch of customer profiles to make sure its customers could 
use online banking, it missed Mr Gs profile out. That caused a further delay in Mr G 
being able to access online banking. I think that was a serious mistake. By now, 
HSBC was aware of Mr Gs disability, and that he would be more affected than most 
by not being able to access online banking.
HSBC said to Mr G that it would review his compensation once it had finally fixed his 
profile, so it could see how much longer hed had to wait. It hasnt done that.
Mr Gs online profile was repaired in late January. He tried to register online then, 
and again had to wait for a secure key to be sent out. HSBC says that was sent on 
30 January. Mr G says he didnt receive this, but he doesnt seem to have contacted 
HSBC again to ask for this. He said he lost interest in this, because it had become so 
difficult.
I dont think its HSBCs fault that Mr G hasnt been able to access online banking 
after 30 January. Im satisfied it has issued the code Mr G needs. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest to me that it would be HSBCs fault if Mr G hasnt received that. I 
dont think HSBC had to get in touch with Mr G again then to check the code was 
received and all was well.
But I do think HSBC caused the delay up to 30 January 2020. Without the second 
mistake HSBC made, in not fixing Mr Gs profile when it fixed others, Mr G wouldve 
been able to access online banking much earlier than this. I think HSBC was right to 
suggest that it shouldve reviewed the compensation it had paid to Mr G at this point. 
I think it shouldve done that, and I think it should pay £250 now for this additional 
delay.
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.Putting things right
HSBC asked whether I wanted it to pay £250 on top of the £200 it had already paid. I have 
confirmed it was £250 in addition to the £200 already paid. 
Mr G replied to say he didnt think this was enough compensation, because he still didnt 
have online access to the account. He said the amount Id suggested was barely enough to 
cover the inconvenience and stress that this bank account had caused over the last 12 
months. 
Mr G said he still couldnt access online banking. HSBC hadnt contacted him to make sure 
he could log in, which he didnt think was good customer service. And, as a disabled person, 
he didnt expect to be disregarded. He didnt have the freedom to visit his branch as other 
people do, and he has to rely on others to assist him with any banking requests.
The compensation I proposed was for Mr G not being able to access online banking up to 30 
January. I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think it was HSBCs fault if Mr G hadnt 
been able to access online banking after 30 January. I thought HSBC had sent the code Mr 
G needed. 
I understand from what Mr G says now that he still hasnt been able to log in, but he hasnt 
said why, or suggested hes been back to HSBC again to tell it this. And Id said in my 
provisional decision that I didnt think HSBC had to proactively get in touch with Mr G again 
to check the code was received and all was well. I dont think that HSBC not doing this 
means its disregarding him.
Ive reviewed this decision, and I still think that the award I proposed provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc must pay Mr G £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman