DRN-4376200
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) took too long to deal 
with his motor insurance claim. 
I can see our investigator limited the investigation up to 18 March 2023, which is the date 
Admiral sent its final response letter to Mr M. On that basis, my decision only covers events 
up to that time. I understand Mr M has made a further complaint to this service as the claim 
remains unresolved and that the further complaint will be dealt with separately.  
What happened
In July 2022, Mr Ms vehicle was involved in an accident. Mr M lost consciousness and had 
little recollection of the incident. He told us he was required to give a sample of blood to the 
police for analysis as a routine check. I understand that a police investigation was opened 
into the accident. 
Mr M then made a claim to Admiral. Admiral did not settle the claim because it said it was 
waiting for a police report into the accident. Mr M says he was then unexpectedly told that he 
may be liable for all recovery and storage costs for his vehicle, which exceeded £1,000 per 
month. He then arranged for the vehicle to be stored at his own property for a cost of over 
£500. The car is currently stored on a shared driveway. Mr M said Admiral settled a third-
party claim and then told him that it may seek to recover those costs from him. Mr M told us 
that Admiral did not provide him with a courtesy car and that its communication had 
generally been poor. 
Mr M complained to Admiral. By way of a final response letter dated 18 March 2023, Admiral 
accepted that there had been delays in its handling of Mr Ms claim. It offered to pay £200 in 
compensation for those delays. Mr M said Admirals delays had caused him stress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr M did not agree with that view and the matter was passed to 
me for an ombudsmans decision. I asked our investigator to request copies of 
correspondence between Admiral and the police and I have now considered that 
information. 
In the meantime, I understand Mr M made a further complaint about Admiral to this service 
because his claim remains unsettled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld the 
complaint in respect of events up to 18 March 2023. Ill explain why. 
The delay in Mr Ms case appears to have arisen from Admirals concern that he may have 
consumed alcohol on the day of the accident. On 11 August 2022, Admiral made a call note 
stating that Mr M told it hed had at least three alcoholic drinks on the day of the accident. 
Mr M disputes Admirals note in this regard and said that he told the police hed had a couple 
of drinks earlier in the day and not at least three. 
It looks as though once the possibility of alcohol being a factor in the accident was raised, 
Admiral decided it needed information from the police about its investigation and the sample 
of blood Mr M gave to the police. Mr M argued that it was no longer necessary for Admiral to 
seek information from the police because by the time the complaint was brought to our 
service, the time limit to bring a prosecution had expired. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ms insurance policy say that where an accident 
occurs whilst an insured person was driving and they are found to be over the legal limit for 
alcohol or they were driving while unfit through alcohol, Admirals liability will be limited to 
meeting its obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. 
In other words, Admiral may not cover any damage to Mr Ms car if hed been found to be 
driving over the legal alcohol limit or driving while unfit through alcohol. I appreciate Mr Ms 
argument that the time limit to prosecute an offence may have passed, but the terms and 
conditions of the policy dont require a prosecution in these circumstances. With all of this in 
mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to seek information from the police. 
Ive next looked at whether Admiral tried to obtain this information in good time. I can see 
that Admiral initially contacted the police on 11 August 2022. A response was received on 15 
August 2022 saying that the investigation into the collision was not yet complete and that a 
police report was not yet available. It looks as though there was no further action by Admiral 
to chase the police report until 15 March 2023. I understand a response was then received 
from the police on 16 March 2023 to say the investigation into the accident was not 
complete. 
It looks as though it took Admiral roughly six months to chase the police report. And I can 
see why that delay would have caused Mr M some frustration. But even if Admiral had been 
more proactive in contacting the police, I dont think there would have been a different 
outcome here because the police told Admiral that its investigation was still ongoing in 
March 2023.  
Mr M was upset that Admiral said it may try and recover the costs it had paid to a third party 
for an alleged injury they incurred during the incident. Mr M said that he later found out the 
policy would revert to third party cover even if he wasnt covered. I understand that even 
where third party cover is in place, in some circumstances, it may be possible for Admiral to 
recover such costs from a driver. 
Looking at Admirals call note, it suggests Admiral told Mr M that it would try and cover the 
costs from him. I can see why Mr M would have been upset to hear this, but I cant say 
Admiral gave him information that was incorrect in that regard. 
I can see Mr M was also upset that hed had to arrange storage for his vehicle and said that 
moving the car to his own driveway had saved Admiral some cost. But as our investigator 
said, if theres a possibility that Admirals liability may only be to third parties, I think it was 
probably wise for Mr M to move his car to mitigate potential future losses. 
I know Mr M was concerned that Admiral did not provide him with a courtesy car. In looking 
at the terms and conditions that apply to the policy, it appears that a courtesy car would only 
be supplied whilst Mr Ms vehicle was being repaired. I understand that Mr Ms car hasnt 
been taken in for repair, so a courtesy car wouldnt be supplied in that situation. 
Despite all of that, I do agree that Admirals communication with Mr M could have been 
better. It looks as though internal reviews of the file were carried out roughly once a month 
with the outcome that the police report was still awaited. But none of this appears to have 
been communicated to Mr M. I can see why this would have caused Mr M some 
considerable uncertainty about what was happening with his claim and that this uncertainty 
would have resulted in stress.   Admiral would need to take action to put that right. I can see it paid £200 to Mr M to 
compensate him for delays and what it described as its poor levels of communication. Im 
satisfied that a payment of £200 up to that stage was reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
On balance, as Admiral has already paid £200 to Mr M, I dont need to tell it to take any 
further action to put things right up to 18 March 2023. However, I must stress that Mr Ms 
complaint about events after that date remains outstanding and will be dealt with separately 
by this service. I have not looked at or made any comment about events arising after 18 
March 2023. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited up to and 
including 18 March 2023. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman