DRN-4418676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the settlement U K Insurance Limited (UKI) paid them after 
they made a claim under their home insurance policy.
UKI is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As UKI has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In mid-2023, Mr and Mrs G made a claim under their home insurance policy with UKI after 
Mr G lost his hearing aids.
UKI accepted their claim and paid Mr and Mrs G £1,916 (minus the £200 policy excess) to 
settle it. This amount was much lower than the cost of purchasing replacement hearing aids 
from Mr and Mrs Gs chosen supplier. They were also unhappy that UKIs agents hadnt 
discussed the settlement with them before paying it. So, they raised a complaint.
UKI said it wouldnt pay more than the amount its own suppliers would charge it to replace 
an item if a cash settlement is preferred. It said its suppliers had given Mr and Mrs G the 
option of returning the hearing aids theyd purchased to their suppliers and UKIs suppliers 
would replace them identically at no extra cost. However, Mr and Mrs G had refused this 
option.
UKI acknowledged its communication with Mr and Mrs G had been poor and sent them a 
payment of £100 to compensate them for this.
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our 
investigator didnt think their complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI had settled the 
claim fairly, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our investigators outcome. Mr G said UKI hadnt informed him 
that he would have to go via its hearing aid suppliers. He said UKI had paid him a cash 
settlement to cover the full cost of replacement hearing aids when hed previously made a 
claim. He said hed been left £800 out of pocket because UKIs settlement didnt cover the 
cost of his new hearing aids. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions set out how UKI settles claims. They say:
For any personal possession, set or part of a set that is lost or damaged we will choose 
whether to: 
replace or repair the item or part
 pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or 
make a cash payment. 
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will pay the full cost of the 
item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
UKI says Mr and Mrs G were given the option of being provided with replacement hearing 
aids. However, they chose to purchase the same hearing aids from a different supplier. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G didnt want to delay getting replacement hearing aids. However, 
UKI said it would be willing to provide identical hearing aids if Mr G was to return the ones 
hed received from his chosen suppliers. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G were expecting UKIs settlement to be based on the full 
replacement costs of the hearing aids because this is what happened when they made a 
claim previously. However, the policys terms and conditions set out how a claim will be 
settled. Mrs G told us that UKI said there would be a difference in the amount they would 
need to pay if they chose not to go with UKIs approved supplier, but she wasnt expecting 
the difference to be so much. 
Mrs G told us they were very happy with the aftercare Mr G received from their chosen 
suppliers. But she also said UKI told her he would receive aftercare if the hearing aids were 
supplied by its approved suppliers. And I havent seen anything to suggest that this wouldnt 
have been adequate.
UKI has acknowledged that its communication with Mr and Mrs G was poor. Mr and Mrs G 
had to make a number of calls because they werent updated on their claim. UKI also didnt 
discuss the cash settlement with them before paying it. However, I think the £100 UKI has 
paid them reasonably recognises the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a 
result.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs G. However, Im satisfied that UKI 
has settled their claim fairly and in line with the policys terms and conditions. So, I dont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman