DRN-3819182
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to reject a claim she made for 
storm damage under her home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Bs roof was damaged during a named storm in November 2021 and this led to water 
ingressing into her home. She made a claim to her insurer. Covea. 
Covea rejected Mrs Bs claim as it said the cause of damage to the roof was due to wear 
and tear and had occurred gradually. It agreed that storm conditions had occurred at the 
time of the damage, but it said the storm had highlighted existing maintenance issues with 
the roof. Covea said it wouldnt meet Mrs Bs claim for internal damage for the same reason. 
Mrs B didnt agree and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought Covea 
had acted reasonably. 
Mrs B doesnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. In summary she says:
Covea failed to consider the opinion of a builder and roofer who inspected and 
repaired her roof. They both said the damage was caused by a storm and not by 
wear and tear.
The damage to her property from the named storm occurred at the front of the 
property but Covea has focused on the condition of the roof at the rear which 
wasnt affected by the storm.
There were several further named storms over the following three months but no 
further damage occurred. Mrs B says this shows the roof was in good condition 
and the damage was caused by storm conditions. 
Covea should have considered a claim for the internal damage under the 
accidental damage section of cover.
So Mrs B wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specified insured perils such as storm, flood or theft. This means 
insurers dont provide cover for every eventuality. Covea  like most if not all other insurers  
doesnt provide cover for damage caused gradually. 
Mrs B says the damage to her property was caused by a storm. We ask three questions 
when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an insurer has acted in a fair 
and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Theres no dispute that storm conditions occurred at the time of the event. So the answer to 
the first question is yes. 
The damage is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. So the answer to the 
second question is also yes. 
Mrs B made a claim to Covea for water ingress to her home a month before she made a 
claim for storm damage - in October 2021. Covea instructed an agent to assess whether the 
claim was valid under the policy. The agent who attended declined the claim - which Mrs B 
accepted. A representative on behalf of Mrs B says Mrs B arranged for a contractor to carry 
out repairs to the porch roof and this had stopped further water ingress. 
Covea has provided a copy of that report from October 2021. Mrs B says the photos the 
contractor - and Covea - is relying on to decline her claim show only one general photo of 
the front pitch of her roof. She says the damage was to the front where there was little or no 
visible damage (to the roof) prior to the storm. 
I can see that the agent took a number of photos of the main roof from the front of Mrs Bs 
home in October 2021 The agent reported the following:
Inspection of the main roof, the roof is a slate roof and shows signs of deterioration 
and there is a number of previous repairs. Silicon has been used to seal the slate, 
near the ridge there has been a previous repair and two slates have slipped.
Mrs B says the inspection in December 2021 of fallen roof tiles which the Surveyor 
commented on included damaged tiles from other homes in the area that had been piled up 
together. I dont have any way of corroborating this. When the agent visited Mrs Bs property, 
the roof was covered with tarpaulin as part of interim repairs that had been carried out. 
Ive reviewed the information provided by two tradesmen as to the condition of Mrs Bs roof. 
But I find the photos and report provided by the agent in October 2021 to carry more weight 
in this case. I think they show the condition of Mrs Bs roof a month before the storm damage 
- and with their comments - that it was showing signs of deterioration with slipped slates. 
As Covea excludes cover for damage cause gradually or by wear and tear, I think its 
decision to decline the claim for storm damage was reasonable. I think the answer to the 
final question is no as I think Covea has reasonably shown that storm conditions highlighted 
an existing issue. 
Mrs B says Covea should have met her claim for internal damage under the accidental 
damage part of cover under her policy. 
Covea provides a definition of Accidental Damage in the policy as: Unexpected physical 
damage caused by unidentifiable external means. Under the general exclusions Covea 
says it doesnt provide cover for damage caused by wear and tear and maintenance. 
Im sorry to read of the impact the storm damage has had on Mrs B and her family. But from 
the information available to me, I think Covea acted reasonably and in line with the policy 
when it rejected her claim. So this means Im not asking it to do any more. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman