DRN-1699782
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 2001. Ms B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Ms B that she had a choice about the 
PPI. But Ms B says she doesnt remember agreeing to it.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of an application form for the PPI, saying that Ms B wanted to be 
insured for 100% of the mortgage costs,. And Ms B has signed the form. The application 
form also included a direct debit instruction to pay for the PPI, also signed by Ms B.
If Ms B didnt want the PPI, I think she could have not signed this application form and direct 
debit instruction. So, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely Lloyds did make it clear 
to Ms B that she had a choice about the PPI, and that Ms B chose to take it out.
Ms B has sent us a copy of a mortgage quotation, on which the cost of the PPI policy has 
been crossed out. But this is dated more than a month earlier than the PPI application form. 
So it appears Ms B may have changed her mind about the PPI in between these two 
documents. And I think Lloyds has acted reasonably in relying on the PPI application form 
when setting up the policy.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Ms B, so it had to check that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for Ms B. 
For example, she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than Ms B told us she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on any savings 
she had to pay her mortgage if she wasnt earning.
Ms B has said her employer operated a redeployment scheme and hadnt made any recent 
redundancies, so she didnt need the PPI. But these schemes cant be guaranteed and are 
at the employers discretion. Whereas the PPI policy provided guaranteed cover for as long 
as the monthly premiums were paid, so would have offered an additional level of protection. 
And so I still think the PPI was right for Ms B.
As well as checking it was right for her, Lloyds had to give Ms B clear information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But a 
mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Ms Bs property couldve been at risk if 
shed failed to make the repayments. So I think she couldve found the protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Ms B if something went wrong. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Ms B off taking it out.
Ms B has questioned whether the PPI was actually added to her account. But Lloyds has 
sent us copies of its internal records showing the policy in Ms Bs name and the dates the 
monthly premiums were charged. So Im satisfied the policy was set up.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman