DRN-3713908
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Covea Insurance plc declined her pet insurance pre-authorisation 
claim. My references to Covea include its agents.
What happened
On 1 February 2019 Mrs W started a pet insurance policy for her dog which she renewed 
annually. Covea was the insurer. In February 2020 Mrs Ws dogs vet noted the dog had a 
heart murmur. In March 2022 Mrs W made a pre-authorisation claim for a scan for a heart 
murmur, with a cost estimate of £522.
Covea declined the pre-authorisation claim. It said Mrs Ws dog had a problem with his heart 
in February 2017, before the policy started, which related to the investigation claimed for. So 
he had a pre-existing condition which wasnt covered under the policy terms.
Mrs W complained to us. She said her vet told Covea that in 2017 her dog had been tested 
by an untrained vet and he didnt have a heart condition then but Covea still wouldnt pay the 
claim. She wants Covea to pay the £607.07 vet costs for the 2022 heart scan.
Our investigator said Covea unfairly declined the pre-authorisation claim and should pay the 
claim plus interest.
Covea disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary it said:
Even though the 2017 scan was carried out by a vet with no relevant experience the 
vet had a duty of care and should have told Mrs W the scan result.
The vet practice managers email of the 11 March 2022 suggested the need for the 
scan in 2022 was influenced by the vet notes from February 2017.
Although Mrs W may not have been aware of the vet notes from 2017, those notes 
show a heart condition was identified in her dog which should have been investigated 
so under the policy terms her dog had a pre-existing condition which wasnt covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. I think Covea unreasonably declined the pre-
authorisation claim. Ill explain why.
The policy excludes the cost of any treatment for a pre-existing condition which the policy 
defines as including:
illness that first showed clinical signs before your pets cover started, or
...illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an  
illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
..illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, anillness or clinical sign your 
pet had before its cover started
The policy definition of pre-existing condition includes undiagnosed conditions where there 
were symptoms or clinical signs of the condition or related condition.
Covea said the 2022 heart scan relates to a pre-existing condition because before the policy 
started Mrs Ws dog had a heart scan in 2017 and the vet noted a perhaps mild prolapse of 
mitral valve. Covea referred to the following email from Mrs Ws vet practice manager to say 
the mild prolapse and heart murmur were related, even if not the same condition:
As there was already a prolapse of the mitral valve noted, and the heart murmur is at 
grade 3, the vet feels that a heart scan would be beneficial to see if there is any 
further damage/deterioration of the heart.
I understand why Covea thought the conditions might be related. However there are two 
issues that I must also consider. 
First, Ive no evidence from a qualified vet that says the possible prolapse of the mitral valve 
noted in 2017 is linked to the heart murmur found in February 2020. If there was such vet 
evidence then under the wording of the policy terms the heart murmur could be a pre-
existing condition.
But second, and most importantly, even if I thought that under the strict wording of the policy 
terms Covea could say the heart murmur was a pre-existing condition I also have to consider 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Covea to decline the claim. We generally consider 
that its only fair and reasonable for an insurer to decline a claim due to a pre-existing 
condition if before the consumer bought the policy they knew there was something wrong 
with their pet, which could likely lead to some investigation or treatment.
Following the vet practice managers email Covea received an email from one of the vets 
who treated Mrs Ws dog. She said:
I can see from the clinical notes that it was a practice scan (in 2017) performed by 
one of our vets who is not competent in echocardiology, whilst (dogs name) was 
being sedated for another procedure. (Dogs name) was not showing clinical signs of 
a heart problem and nothing definitive was found. It may not have even been 
reported to the owner.
I think the email from the vet is strong evidence that in February 2017 Mrs Ws dog wasnt 
showing clinical signs of a heart problem, the vet who did the scan wasnt competent in 
echocardiology, no definite problem was found and Mrs W may not have been told about the 
possible heart problem.
The vet note from 10 February 2017 said:
Sedated and removed grass seed from right earAlso had a go at ultrasound 
scanning heart whilst asleep 2d image shows perhaps mild prolapse of mitral valve 
but left atrium does not appear to be enlarged.
I think the note supports that vet had a go at something they were unfamiliar with while the 
dog was sedated for a completely unrelated procedure. And that vet note says perhaps 
there was a mild prolapse of the mitral valve, not there was a mild prolapse.Covea said the vet should have told Mrs W what the 2017 scan may have showed. But 
theres no mention in the 2017 vet notes that Mrs W was told about the possible mild 
prolapse, theres no indication she was told of any concern about her dogs heart and no 
treatment or investigations were suggested. Ive no reason to believe Mrs W was informed 
that her dog had a possible heart problem in 2017. So I dont think Mrs  W knew about the 
possible mild prolapse of the mitral valve when she bought the policy.
The pre-authorisation claim form asked when did this illness/injury begin? and the vet 
answered 7 February 2020, which is when the vet notes show the heart murmur was found. 
The vet notes in May 2020 show the vet discussed with Mrs W about her dog having an 
echocardiogram once lockdown (was) over. The policy started on 1 February 2019 so 
I think it was only after the policy started that Mrs W knew her dog had a problem with his 
heart which needed investigating.
Im satisfied that Covea unreasonably relied on the pre-existing condition exclusion to 
decline the pre-authorisation claim. It must cover the cost of the claimed for heart scan. 
Mrs W said the cost was £607.07 but I havent seen any invoice and its reasonable for 
Covea to want evidence of the cost of the treatment before it pays. 
Putting things right
Covea must pay the cost of the claimed for heart scan once Mrs W has sent it evidence of 
the cost, less any policy excess. If Mrs W had already paid the vet costs Covea must add 
interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require to Covea Insurance plc to pay the cost of the claimed for 
heart scan once Mrs W has sent it evidence of the cost, less any policy excess. If Mrs W has 
already paid the vet costs interest* must be added at 8% simple a year from the date Mrs W 
paid to the date of settlement.
*If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman