DRN-4268349
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that, for a while, Shawbrook Bank Limited provided a lower rate of interest 
on their 120-day notice account that they did on their easy access account.
What happened
Mr B held a 120-day notice account with Shawbrook because he expected the interest rate 
for that account to be higher than the rate he could obtain from Shawbrooks easy access 
account. Indeed, Mr B noted that Shawbrooks own literature explained that notice accounts 
typically have higher rates of interest than easy access accounts.
But Mr B later discovered that Shawbrook had increased the interest rate they were offering 
on their easy access account but not on the 120-day notice account which he held. And this 
meant that, at that time, Shawbrooks easy access account paid a higher rate of interest than 
their 120-day notice account. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Shawbrook responded to Mr B and confirmed that the volatile market and Bank of England 
interest rate rises had led them to raise the interest rate on their easy access account, which 
meant the interest rate on that account was higher than the interest rate on their 120-day 
notice account. And Shawbrook explained this had happened because their easy access 
account was reviewed and updated more regularly that their 120-day notice account. Mr B 
wasnt satisfied with Shawbrooks response and felt a notice account should always pay 
higher interest than an easy access account. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Shawbrook had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has explained that because Shawbrooks literature stated that notice accounts 
typically have higher rates of interest than easy access accounts, that this means that the 
Shawbrook 120-day notice account that he held should always have a higher rate of interest 
than Shawbrooks easy access account.
But I feel that Mr Bs assertion here is based on a misunderstanding of the term typically, 
which doesnt imply any definitiveness as Mr B suggests. 
Rather, if something is typically higher than something else, then this is usually the case, 
but isnt guaranteed to always be the case.
This is whats happened here. Shawbrooks 120-day notice account does usually provide a 
higher rate of interest that Shawbrooks easy access account. But it isnt guaranteed to 
always provide a higher rate of interest than Shawbrooks easy access account.
Notably, in their response to Mr Bs complaint, Shawbrook provided what I feel is a fair and 
reasonable explanation as to why the interest rate offered on their easy access account was 
higher than the interest rate offered on their 120-day notice account during the time about 
which Mr B complained. Specifically, this was because of unusually strong market volatility 
combined with the fact that their easy access account is reviewed and updated more 
regularly than their 120-day notice account.
As such, Im satisfied that whats happened here is that the factors described above led to 
Shawbrook raising the interest rate offered on their easy access account above the rate 
being offered on their 120-day notice account. This typically wasnt the case, but it was that 
case in this specific instance. And I dont feel that this was unfair.
As the account holder the onus was on Mr B to have monitored his accounts and to have 
held his money where he felt it would be most beneficial for him. And, at a time when the 
Bank of England was increasing the base rate of interest regularly, I feel that the potential 
drawback of holding his money in a notice account  which would restrict his ability to be 
able to move his money quickly to any alternative accounts which provided more beneficial 
rates of interest  was a factor that Mr B reasonably should have considered. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Shawbrook have acted unfairly or done anything 
wrong here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I note that Shawbrook, in their response to Mr Bs complaint, offered to move his money into 
an easy access account without waiting for the notice period or with Mr B incurring a penalty. 
I feel that this gesture of goodwill by Shawbrook is both reasonable and generous, and I 
wont be instructing them to take any further or alternative action beyond this.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman