DRN-4325573
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B say Vacation Finance Limited, who Ill call VFL, unfairly declined their
claims regarding a timeshare agreement, that VFL partly financed for them, in May 2018.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2023. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
Mrs B and Mr B signed up for a timeshare agreement with a company Ill call A in May
2018 (the Time of Sale). The cost of the credits they secured was £45,000 and the purchase
was partly funded through a fixed sum loan for £31,485.
Mrs B and Mr B complained to VFL in June 2021. There were a number of allegations and
its not practical to list them in detail here, but I have taken note of them. They said that A
wasnt authorised to broker the finance agreement and was committing a criminal offence by
doing so. And they added that VFL were restricted by the Financial Conduct Authority from
canvassing off trade premises and that as VFL traded from the UK and A were their
representatives, A were subject to the same restrictions and werent allowed to canvass in
Malta where the timeshare was sold to them, and the finance was brokered. They also said
theyd been put under pressure and had been subjected to aggressive sales practices by A,
and that they hadnt been given any time to read the contracts or benefit from any 14 day
withdrawal period as the finance agreement hadnt been given to them until three weeks
after the agreement had started. Mrs B and Mr B were also upset that VFL hadnt completed
the requisite affordability checks, and they noted theyd now been asked to pay instalments
to a company who Ill call F and not to VFL with whom they had entered into the finance
agreement; they thought that was a scam.
VFL didnt agree that A werent authorised at the Time of Sale or that A were restricted from
brokering the agreement abroad. They didnt think Mrs B and Mr B had provided sufficient
evidence that they were unduly pressured or that the agreement hadnt been provided to
them on time. They explained that a copy of the finance agreement would always have been
provided at the Time of Sale. They said they had completed the necessary affordability
checks and explained that F were a direct debit collection service approved by them to
collect Mrs B and Mr Bs finance instalments and that they werent therefore part of a scam.
VFL also commented on concerns Mrs B and Mr B raised about the timeshare being sold as
an investment. They didnt think there was evidence in the contractual paperwork that was
the case.
Our investigator agreed with VFL but Mrs B and Mr B didnt. They provided several
documents relating to their and their action groups broader complaints and they asked for a
decision by an ombudsman. The complaint has therefore been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not expecting to uphold this complaint but as its been some time since our investigator
provided her view on the matter, and as I dont think we covered all of the issues, Im issuing
a provisional decision.
This service cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they havent been made to
the business first. So, Ive only considered the complaint points Mrs B and Mr B raised with
VFL in June 2021, along with any further points that VFL have already engaged with.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my decision.
There has been limited information available to me when considering this complaint. It
seems unlikely, given the passage of time, that any further documentary evidence is
available. So, Ive made my decision on the information on file and will consider any further
evidence if its provided in response to this provisional decision.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Under section 140A and section 140B of the CCA a court has the power to consider whether
a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate orders
in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and
refunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have regard to any
connected agreement; in this case, that could include the agreement for the sale of the
timeshare product in 2018.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA, as the pre-
contractual acts or omissions of the credit broker (A) or supplier will be deemed to be the
responsibility of the lender (VFL), and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding
whether an unfair relationship exists between Mrs B and Mr B and VFL.
Mrs B and Mr B say they were pressured into agreeing the deal.
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mrs B and Mr Bs ability to exercise
choice was significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation, the pressure, lack of breaks,
and the lack of time alone to think, that they say they experienced as that may have created
an unfair relationship between them and the supplier.
Mrs B and Mr B had already attended presentations and entered into timeshare agreements
with A before, so I think they would have been likely to have had an understanding of the
approach that would be taken. I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to
suggest Mrs B and Mr B didnt understand they didnt have to say yes to the agreement or
that they didnt understand they could walk away without entering into it.
Having seen other agreements with A I think its highly likely Mrs B and Mr B were given a14 day cooling off period, and while I understand their assertion that they didnt receive a
copy of the finance agreement until after that cooling off period was over, I note VFL dont
think that was likely and I agree. I think it would be unlikely Mrs B and Mr B would not take a
copy of the agreement away with them especially as it was for a considerable amount of
money; I also note theyd had similar agreements before, and I think they would have
expected to receive a finance agreement and have questioned it if they hadnt; and I think it
would be unusual for a finance agreement not to have been provided on the day. Im not
therefore persuaded there was any delay in supplying a copy of the finance agreement that
would lead a court to decide there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
The claim that the agreement was sold as an investment
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
Mrs B and Mr B say that the timeshare agreement was misrepresented to them as they were
told it was an investment.
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit
agreement has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the
supplier if there's a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. But section 75,
that Mrs B and Mr B have relied on, only applies when the cash value of the goods is equal
to or less than £30,000 and here the cash price was more than that. Section 75a extends the
protection given to include claims for breach of contract when the cash value of the goods or
service is more than £30,000 and less than or equal to £60,260. But unlike section 75 of the
CCA, section 75a does not give consumers a right to make a claim if theres been a
misrepresentation. So, I dont think a court would decide a claim for misrepresentation could
succeed.
And even if Im wrong about that, Mrs B and Mr B havent provided any substantive evidence
to support their assertion they were sold an investment.
Was A authorised and did they commit an offence when canvassing business
This Services records show that A was registered as a representative of VFL from 25 April
2016. And VFL was authorised under this services compulsory jurisdiction from 31 March
2016 which means they held the required authorisation from the FCA. And as their
representative, A was able to introduce credit business to them. So, I dont agree that A
didnt hold the required authorisation to introduce business to VFL under section 19 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
Section 154 of the CCA says, It is an offence to canvass off trade premises the services of
a person carrying on a business of credit-brokerage []. The Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Handbook defines canvassing off trade premises as: (a) an activity by an individual
(the canvasser) of soliciting the entry of another individual ("B") into an agreement by
making oral representations to B during a visit by the canvasser to any place (other than a
place in (b)) where B is, being a visit made by the canvasser for the purpose of making such
oral representations. (b) a place where a business is carried on (whether on a permanent or
temporary basis) by: (i) the lender or owner; or (ii) a supplier; or (iii) the canvasser; or (iv) a
person who employs the canvasser or has appointed the canvasser as an agent; or (v) B; is
excluded from (a). Mrs B and Mr B havent provided information to demonstrate where the
brokering took place. Its my understanding that the sale, and resultant credit application,
were usually completed at As offices/premises at the resort Mrs B and Mr B were visiting.
And given Ive established that A was a registered representative of VFL at the time of thesale, I think they were entitled to do that. So, I cant reasonably say there was a regulatory
breach in doing so. And I dont think I have sufficient information to suggest the broker of an
agreement had to broker those agreements in the same locality as the provider of credit, so I
dont find it unusual, or unacceptable, that A was based in Malta. Having considered the
arguments put forward by Mrs B and Mr B, I dont think there appears to be any
circumstances, based upon the evidence available, that would likely lead to the
agreement(s) being determined as null and void or that A committed an offence when they
brokered the deal.
Affordability checks
Mrs B and Mr B say that VFL were in breach of their obligations to carry out an adequate
credit assessment to determine whether they could afford to repay the loan.
However, even if VFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks (and I make no finding
about that) when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration
is whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, for me to
say VFL needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the credit
granted by VFL was likely to be unaffordable and that Mrs B and Mr B suffered a loss as a
result. As theres little evidence that they have found, nor found, it difficult to repay what they
were lent by VFL, Im not persuaded the agreement was unaffordable for them.
The involvement of F
VFL have explained F has a merchant and direct debit license and offers a Direct Debit
collection service. They explained that it is for this reason that Mrs B and Mr Bs loan
repayments were taken by F. F informed Mrs B and Mr B that were doing so in a letter to
them in May 2019. I dont think VFL have done anything wrong in that respect.
And ultimately I am not persuaded that VFL have been unreasonable in their response to
Mrs B and Mr Bs complaints
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and/or evidence
VFL didnt respond to my provisional decision and Mrs B and Mr B didnt provide any further 
comments, but they did provide some additional documentation Id asked for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fixed sum loan agreement provided by Mrs B and Mr B confirms the funding I set out in 
my provisional decision and supports my view that the sums involved were in excess of 
£30,000 and VFL were therefore entitled not to consider a claim under section 75 for 
misrepresentation. The finance agreement also clarifies that a 14 day cooling off period was 
applied in this case. 
The Standard Information Form confirms:
You are purchasing Credits which can be exchanged for rights of occupation and use in a unit of accommodation or a yacht or use of other lifestyle products such as luxury cars at 
various locations . It makes no mention of the timeshare being an investment.
Im not persuaded that the additional documentation, provided by Mrs B and Mr B at my 
request, would suggest my provisional decision needs to change. My provisional decision 
therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman