DRN-4243705
The complaint
Mr B has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in December 
2022, using a hire purchase agreement with Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa).
What happened
Mr B acquired a used Citroen in November 2022 (the date of the agreement  although he 
took delivery of the car in early December after arranging the acquisition online), using a 
hire-purchase agreement with Zopa. The car was over seven years old, with a mileage of 
75,215 at the point of supply. The cost of the car was £8,250, and Mr B borrowed £8,000 
over a term of 60 months, with a monthly repayment of £182.01. 
Mr B told us hed had problems with the car from the outset, and had contacted the 
dealership two days after he got the car. He stated the issues as follows:
the middle seatbelt was cut a quarter of the way through;
screen washers didnt work;
the battery and engine control unit covers were missing;
the nearside electric folding mirror didnt work;
the emergency key blade was missing;
the air compressor and puncture repair kit was missing;
the roller blind load cover was missing;
there was damage and delamination on the instrument panel (he sent in a photograph 
of this).
The selling dealership was some way away, and Mr B said it asked him to get a quote for the 
repairs from a garage. He did this, but the dealership was not happy with it, and asked him 
to get a second quote. He refused to do this, because of the inconvenience of being without 
a car while the quote was being prepared. And the dealership was not prepared to cover the 
cost of replacing the instrument panel.
I have a copy of the job card showing the quote for the repairs, and the estimated cost was 
just over £2,400.
Mr B told us that the dealership then asked for the car to be returned to it so that the repairs 
could be completed there, but Mr B was not happy to do this as he wouldve needed to take 
time off work to deliver and then collect the car, and wouldve been without the car in the 
interim. 
Mr B complained to Zopa in January 2023, because of the difficulties in arranging the 
repairs. Zopa issued its final response letter to Mr B in March 2023. It said it had partially 
upheld Mr Bs complaint, as the dealership had accepted liability for some of the faults, and 
stated the following:
the job card Mr B had sent in didnt provide details of the car or the issuing garage.
the dealership had said it would cover the cost of the replacement parts and also third-
party labour costs of up to £40 per hour plus VAT. Zopa asked Mr B to provide the 
relevant quotes to the dealership.
the dealership didnt agree to repair the instrument panel, saying the damage was 
present on the original advert for the car. Having reviewed the advert, Zopa said it 
agreed with the dealership that the fault was visible and therefore it wouldnt hold the 
dealership liable for this. It also noted that Mr B had told it in February that he could 
buy a replacement panel for £500, and had asked for the dealership to cover this and 
the fitting costs, but the dealership refused again.
Zopa arranged a payment of £50 in recognition of the faults
Zopa asked Mr B for proof of payment of £70 for the quote for the repairs, so that they 
could issue a refund to him.
Following this, Mr B contacted Zopa to say that, after the dealership agreed to send out the 
necessary parts so that Mr B could organise the repairs, he received a generic puncture 
repair kit, a piece of plastic as the battery and ECU cover but which was too small to cover 
either, and a second-hand seatbelt mechanism of the wrong type. He had not received the 
wing mirror, rear luggage blind cover and emergency key blade and he couldnt engage with 
a garage until all the correct parts were received.
Mr B wasnt happy with all this, so he brought his complaint to this service. He would like to 
reject the car and cancel the agreement. Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint, and 
thought it should be upheld. Zopa didnt agree and asked that it be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
I should say here that Mr B has reported further problems with the car since he brought his 
complaint to this service. He has said that:
he started having difficulty unlocking and locking the vehicle (and the emergency key 
is missing as noted above).
he received a fault message saying the car should be taken for a service but this 
disappeared the next time he started the engine. 
a noise has started to come from the steering column when driving the vehicle. 
the air conditioning doesnt work, and a diagnostic test has shown a leaking aircon 
radiator and pipe.
the injector needed to be replaced (along with the fuel filter).
the vehicle is reporting that the key is not present in the vehicle even when it is in the 
key slot.
However, Zopa has said that it is considering these as the subject of a separate complaint, 
and I do not have its response. Therefore I am not considering these issues in this decision, 
but have simply noted them for the sake of completeness.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Because Zopa supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case the car was over seven years old, with a mileage of 75,215 at the point of 
supply. And the price was lower than that of a new car. So its reasonable to expect that 
parts of the car would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of this age 
would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality. 
Mr B sent in a detailed account of the sequence of events, a photograph of the delamination 
on the instrument panel, and a screenshot recording phone calls to the dealership within two 
days of Mr B acquiring the car. Zopa sent in copies of the hire purchase agreement, the 
advert for the car, its computer records of Mr Bs complaint, and various emails.
Mr B has more recently sent in a copy of an independent inspection report he commissioned 
on the vehicle. 
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence sent in by both parties. 
Zopa accepted that there were faults present in the car at the point of supply and agreed that 
the dealership ought to be liable for the cost of repairs (other than the instrument panel). 
Much of the content of the recent independent inspection report relates to the more recent 
faults, which I am not considering here, but it refers to a document from January 2023 (which 
seems to be the job card) saying:
It is our opinion, based on the evidence which has been supplied that the faults of which are 
listed within the document dated the 11/01/23 are faults of which would have been present 
or in development at the point vehicle sale. These faults are: key blade, instrument
cluster, seatbelt reel, mirror, washer jet.
It goes on to refer to the delamination of the instrument panel, and says This would be due 
to deterioration and would have been present or in development at the time of vehicle sale.
So I dont need to look at whether there were faults present at the point of supply  its 
accepted this was the case. 
I have considered whether Mr B ought reasonably have been aware of the damaged 
instrument panel when he acquired the car. The dealership said the damage was evident in 
the original advert for the car - and Zopa agreed after reviewing the photos from the advert. 
Ive examined the photos sent in by Zopa. I agree with our investigators conclusion that one 
of the photos shows a mark of some kind, but the distance and angle of the photos means that its not clear there was a fault. None of the photos was taken directly facing the panel, or 
particularly close to it. And the advert did not include any reference to the damage. However, 
and as I noted above, Mr B sent in a photo of the panel, taken directly in front of it. This 
clearly shows the damage. So taking all this into account, Im not satisfied that Mr B could 
reasonably have been aware of the damage when he acquired the car.
The next point I need to consider is whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Given the faults set out above, I dont think it was. I accept that the car was some 
seven years old at the point of supply, but the faults became evident immediately, and Mr B 
contacted the dealership straight away (and I note the job card listed repairs totalling over 
£2,400). I dont think that a reasonable person would consider that satisfactory. 
As I consider that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint. The question is then one of appropriate redress. 
Our investigator thought it fair that Mr B should be able to reject the car and end the 
agreement. She took account of incorrect parts having been sent, and thought that Zopa had 
had sufficient time to arrange for the parts to be sent and to reconsider its position about the 
instrument panel, before Mr B approached this service. She further took account of the 
additional delays and inconvenience repairs would cause.
In response to our investigators view, Zopa said it disagreed, and raised a number of points 
as follows:
it had previously approached the dealer to resend the parts, but was not able to get a 
response from the dealer. 
to help progress matters, it asked Mr B to provide a quote from a third-party garage, so 
that it could understand what parts were needed (and it said it would look to assist with 
labour costs);
Mr B had said until the parts were received from the dealer, he could not gather the 
quote Zopa needed  but it said it would need a quote to understand what parts were 
needed and understand the costs to be incurred.
Despite several requests, Mr B had not provided quotes. He had also not provided 
evidence of the more recent faults.
It agreed that the dealer had contributed to some of the delays in relation to the 
missing parts. 
Mr B chose to have the parts replaced and not reject the car and therefore the onus is 
also on him to provide the information Zopa needed to help with covering costs for 
parts and labour.
The delamination of the instrument panel is clearly visible in the photograph for the 
original advert; therefore, it stands by its earlier decision of not holding the dealer liable 
or covering costs for this to be repaired.
The faults listed do not impede the performance of the vehicle and it would consider 
wear and tear related given the vehicle is now eight years old. 
It could not agree that our investigators recommendation to reject the vehicle is fair.
Ive explained above why I think that the delamination of the instrument panel was not clear 
from the advert, and Zopa has not provided any new information on this point. Ive also 
noted that I am not considering the more recent faults in this decision. The faults I am 
considering were present at the point of supply, and Ive explained above why I dont think a reasonable person would find it satisfactory - I think they would expect to be able to use the 
car for a reasonable period before incurring repairs of that magnitude. 
Otherwise, Zopa is not arguing that the complaint should not be upheld  indeed it partially 
upheld Mr Bs complaint when he first made it  rather, it is disagreeing that Mr B should be 
able to reject the vehicle and end the agreement. 
Ive carefully considered the points Zopa has made, but my conclusion is that it would be fair 
for Mr B to be able to reject the car. I say this because the problems were evident 
immediately Mr B took delivery of the car, and Zopa accepts that the dealership had 
contributed to delays in dealing with the parts required (and I note Mr Bs comments about 
the wrong parts being sent and Zopas comment that it could not get a response from the 
dealership). I accept that Zopa had asked Mr B for quotes, but from what both parties have 
said it seems there was something of a stalemate about whether the parts were needed 
before a repair quote could be obtained. I think Zopa couldve done more to progress 
matters  it looks from Zopas complaint notes that there were no phone calls to try and 
resolve matters  and Mr B has told us about his family and other commitments which make 
it difficult to be without the car while quotes are prepared. 
Overall, on the basis that the problems started immediately and hadnt been resolved some 
six months later, Im satisfied that it is fair for Mr B to be able to reject the car and end the 
contract. 
Although I am satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, I 
accept that Mr B has had use of it since then, so I dont consider it fair to require a refund of 
monthly payments due under the contract. 
However, in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B, I think it would be 
fair for Zopa to pay him £100 compensation to reflect this (in addition to the £50 it has 
already paid). I also think it fair to require Zopa to refund the amount Mr B paid to have the 
windscreen washers replaced because of the delays with the dealership. This was £72, and 
Zopa has been given a copy of the invoice and receipt.
Putting things right
Zopa should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr B;
refund to Mr Bs deposit/part exchange contribution of £250;
refund to Mr B £72 for the windscreen washer repair as described above,
pay 8% simple yearly interest* on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused due to the 
faulty vehicle;
remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to the agreement (if 
there is any).
*if Zopa considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Zopa Bank Limited 
should compensate Mr B as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman