DRN-3135746
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Broadgate Financial Management
LLP (Broadgate) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In early 2016, Mr F contacted Broadgate for advice on his pension. They completed some of 
the initial paperwork for Mr F, but as they didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on a 
pension transfer they referred him to another firm (Firm B) for advice. Mr F was advised by 
Firm B to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension. After the transfer, Broadgate 
became the ongoing adviser on Mr Fs pension plan.
Mr F complained both to Broadgate and Firm B in 2020 about the advice he received. He
said he felt the advice was flawed and he has lost out financially as a result. Broadgate said
they didnt provide Mr F with any advice.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered his complaint
but didnt uphold it. He didnt think Broadgates actions caused Mr Fs losses.
Mr F disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
I understand Mr F also complained about Broadgates advice to switch a separate group 
personal pension to a new pension plan. This will be considered in a separate complaint and 
doesnt form part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr F is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is Firm B. They were the firm who had the
relevant permissions and provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB
scheme. Its worth remembering that Mr F could not have transferred his DB pension without
Firm Bs advice.
I considered whether Broadgate should be held responsible for Mr Fs losses here in some 
form, however I dont think they should. Firm B has since gone into liquidation, so Mr F can 
refer any complaint against them the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
I appreciate Broadgate might have been speaking positively about transferring out. They 
were planning to become the ongoing advisers on Mr Fs pension and would be charging 
ongoing advice fees. So they may have been hoping Mr F would transfer. Ive also
considered the possibility that Broadgate inadvertently strayed into advice, even though I
havent seen sufficient evidence to say that this is what happened. However, even if they
did, in my view none of their interactions with Mr F and possible failures in this regard
ultimately caused the potential losses he suffered.
Mr Fs representatives say Broadgate and Firm B should both be liable for his losses. They
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They
say Broadgate failed to act in Mr Fs best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
Broadgate did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so
they couldnt be expected to recommend Mr F not to transfer. I think there was nothing
generally wrong with referring Mr F on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB pension.
Mr Fs representatives say Broadgate referred a number of clients to Firm B and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely
they referred customers to Firm B on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that Firm B would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not.
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have
those permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on Firm B,
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mr F with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr F to transfer Firm B should, as the experts in this field, have
clearly told him so and provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any 
discussions with Broadgate would have likely made Mr F go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was Firm Bs positive recommendation that caused Mr F to
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the transfer.
I dont think Mr Fs potential losses here are caused by Broadgates actions and so I dont 
consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman