DRN-2404024
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr M had income protection insurance with Aviva. This was a group policy provided by his 
employer. Mr M became too unwell to work in December 2018. Hed been suffering with joint 
pain, neck, mouth and throat pain. He claimed on his insurance policy as his symptoms left 
him unable to work to fulfil his role as a customer service representative. His claim was 
declined but he thinks it should be accepted. During the lifetime of his claim, Mr M also 
received a diagnosis of fibromyalgia, which he said is another reason hes unable to work. 
Mr M also suffers with chronic insomnia.
Aviva said it declined Mr Ms claim because there was little medical evidence to support that 
hes unable to fulfil his core responsibilities on either a full or part-time basis. It accepted Mr 
M may need to take regular breaks from his computer and that there may be the need for a 
reduced expectation in productivity, but overall, said that he could return to work over a 
three-month phased period. Aviva also said itd not seen any medical diagnosis to support 
Mr Ms claim of fibromyalgia. It also acknowledged that the MRI scan showed some 
anomalies with the discs in his neck, but, didnt think this was a particular barrier to returning 
to work full time as adjustments could be made to help facilitate this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He agreed that Aviva had declined Mr Ms 
claim fairly as it relied on medical evidence to do so. He highlighted that it considered the 
occupational health reports as a key piece of evidence as this suggested Mr M could return 
to work, provided adjustments were made.
Mr M didnt agree. In summary, he said that his treating consultant verbally confirmed his 
diagnosis of fibromyalgia and that should further clarity be needed, then Aviva should ask 
the consultant directly. Working on his computer for more than 30 minutes causes him neck 
and shoulder pain and his insomnia means hes unable to concentrate for any prolonged 
period of time. Mr M also highlighted that hes been prescribed Gabapentin for his 
fibromyalgia symptoms and Zopiclone for his sleep deprivation. And so, its for me to make a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing so are 
similar to those already explained by our investigator in that Mr M doesnt meet the policy 
terms for income protection benefit. Ill explain why.
The policy says;
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role 
as a result of their illness or injury.
And, duties are defined as:
The material and substantial duties that:
are normally required to perform the job role for the policyholder; and
perform a significant and integral part of the performance of the job role for the 
policyholder; and
cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by the member or policyholder.
Duties do not include the journey to and from work.
The medical evidence says that Mr M can perform his role as customer service 
representative provided adjustments are made. The occupational health report says on that 
point;
I would, however, recommend frequent respite breaks away from his desk, getting up to 
stretch and ensuring that any prolonged work which includes intense concentration or 
deadlines is broken down, so that he is not adopting stiff, static postures
Having carefully considered all medical evidence, Ive not seen anything that persuasively 
concludes that Mr M is unable to work on a full or part time basis, which is the test applied in 
this case. I note Mr Ms comments about his fibromyalgia, but Ive not seen any medical 
diagnosis in this regard. The specialist that treated Mr M mentioned this was a concern at 
one point, but there wasnt a definitive diagnosis given. Rather, the specialist found that 
because Mr M didnt have any fatty tissue deposits, his symptoms didnt support that 
diagnosis. 
I should say that simply being diagnosed with an illness doesnt automatically mean that Mr 
M would be unable to work in any capacity. And symptoms of fibromyalgia vary 
considerably, meaning patients are affected in different ways and their capabilities, as a 
result, are varied. 
Mr M challenged the insurers decision to decline his claim several times, but each time, 
Aviva issued its decision based on medical evidence and so I dont think its declined Mr Ms 
claim unfairly. Avivas chief medical officer said Mr M should return to work on a part time 
basis and it would then look to consider paying partial benefit. Mr M highlighted this and 
suggested this was perhaps an admission of liability. Thats to say that Aviva ought to be 
paying his claim. But Im not persuaded by that because Avivas position is that Mr M is 
capable of working, on a part time basis to begin with, with the view to completing a phased 
return to full time hours. I think this is a reasonable position to help increase Mr Ms 
tolerance to full time hours, taking into consideration the recommended adjustments made 
by the occupational physician.
I note Mr Ms comments about Aviva, or even the ombudsman, reaching out to his doctors in 
order to gain more medical evidence about his ability to return to work. But I should say that 
its not for either Aviva or the ombudsman to do this. Its for Mr M to demonstrate he has a 
valid claim and to date, Im not persuaded that he has, for the reasons Ive explained. The 
ombudsmans role is to consider whether Aviva has declined his claim fairly  and I believe it 
has. I say that because each time its given an answer, its done so based on its 
interpretation of the medical evidence provided.  Ive considered Mr Ms arguments about the medication hes currently taking and whether 
this bears any impact on his ability to work. I note the occupational physicians comments on 
this point in particular and echo whats been said here. Mr M should discuss any concerns 
with his GP as there are likely adjustments that can be made should he continue to suffer 
side effects that are affecting his concentration levels. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman