DRN-1536004
complaint
Mr T complains that Vitality Health Limited didnt cover all his treatment costs under a private 
medical insurance claim. 
background
On 16 January, Mr T had a fall at home. He went to the urgent care department of a nearby 
private hospital as he had cuts to his hand and leg. An X-ray showed hed also fractured his 
left tibial plateau. Mr T was admitted to the hospital. He saw a plastic surgeon on 17 January 
for treatment for his cuts, then an orthopaedic surgeon carried out surgery for the fracture on 
18 January. He wanted Vitality to pay for his treatment. 
Vitality told Mr T the policy wouldnt cover emergency treatment until his conditions were 
stabilised. It said it would only pay for treatment costs after his surgery on 18 January, as it 
thought his conditions were stable from that point. Unhappy that Vitality wouldnt pay for all 
the treatment he received, Mr T brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Mr Ts conditions 
couldnt be considered stable until hed received the treatment. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy says:
We will not pay for the following treatments:

emergency treatment, including:
treatment in an Accident and Emergency unit or other urgent care centre
admission to hospital in an emergency
urgent admission to hospital following an unscheduled outpatient appointment
and all care associated with such an admission until the condition has been fully stabilised.
Mr T went to an urgent care centre for treatment, and was then admitted to hospital. The 
treatment in the urgent care centre would be considered emergency treatment. And given 
that his admission to hospital immediately followed him being seen in the urgent care centre, 
I think its reasonable to say this would also be considered emergency treatment. That 
means the cost of his treatment would only be covered once his conditions had fully 
stabilised. Ive therefore considered the medical evidence to try and determine when his 
conditions stabilised.Mr H (consultant plastic and reconstructive surgeon) has explained that Mr T was referred to 
him on 16 January for exploration and repair of the wounds to his hand and leg. He agreed 
to add Mr T to his operating list the following day. Then on the morning of 17 January, Mr H 
says he was told by the referring doctor that Mr T had remained in hospital overnight 
because an X-ray had confirmed the fracture of his left tibial plateau, and hed had a referral 
to an orthopaedic surgeon. 
Mr H confirmed he carried out the exploration and repair of Mr Ts wounds to his hand and 
leg on 17 January, and said he was fit to be discharged home in relation to those problems. 
He then said in view of his left tibial fracture it was deemed appropriate to refer him to an 
orthopaedic surgeon, who elected to have him kept in hospital for management of his 
fracture.
Mr T had surgery to treat his fracture on 18 January. Mr T has provided a letter from Mr M 
(consultant orthopaedic surgeon) who carried out the surgery. Mr M says that Mr T was 
entirely clinically stable at the time of the surgery.
Having considered the relevant information, I think it was reasonable for Vitality to conclude 
that Mr Ts claim became payable after his surgery on 18 January. Ill explain why.
After Mr H treated Mr Ts cuts on 17 January, he confirmed that Mr T was fit to be 
discharged home in relation to those problems. Im therefore satisfied the cuts to Mr Ts 
hand and leg were stable after he received treatment on 17 January. That means any costs 
associated with that condition became payable after this. However, as I understand it, Mr T 
didnt incur any further treatment costs for that condition. He remained in hospital after this 
because of his fracture. 
Mr M says that Mr T was entirely clinically stable at the time of the surgery for his fracture 
(on 18 January). But I think theres a difference between being clinically stable, and a 
condition being stable. My understanding is that being clinically stable means a persons vital 
signs (for example, blood pressure) are under control. 
Vitality is of the view that the surgery Mr T had on 18 January was part of the stabilisation of 
his condition. Im inclined to agree with Vitality on this point. Mr T had been admitted to the 
hospital after visiting the urgent care clinic, and remained there for two nights until the 
surgery to treat his fracture was carried out. Whilst I appreciate he was clinically stable when 
he had the surgery, given that he had to remain in hospital until the surgery, I think its 
reasonable to say that his condition only became stable after hed had the surgery.
That means Vitality was only liable for treatment costs Mr T incurred after his surgery took 
place on 18 January. Vitality has accepted this and covered those costs. 
I understand Vitality also paid for some invoices associated with Mr Ts surgery on 
18 January in error. However, its confirmed it doesnt require Mr T to repay these amounts, 
which I think is fair.
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr T, Im satisfied that Vitality dealt with his 
claim fairly. I therefore dont require it to make any further payment. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman