DRN-1546319
The complaint
Mr M complained that the business unfairly avoided his motor insurance policy. He was also 
represented by his daughter, Miss M.
What happened
Mr M took out a policy with CIS. After he had an accident, CIS found that the car wasnt 
registered in his name but was instead still registered to the previous owner, a family 
member. CIS avoided the policy because of this, meaning that they treated it as if it never 
existed. They said they would refund his premiums. 
Mr M complained to CIS. He said that he had at first been driving the car as a named driver 
on a family members trade policy. But he then bought the car from the family member and 
he took out a policy with CIS in his own name. Another family member did this for him online, 
on his behalf. In the policy application he said that he was the cars registered keeper and 
legal owner. He said he assumed that he was the registered keeper because he thought that 
the family member had sent off the vehicle registration form. But it seems that this didnt 
happen, again by mistake. 
There was then some confusion because when CIS phoned Mr M about the accident, he 
said he was driving the car as a named driver on the trade policy and he didnt have a policy 
in his own name. Miss M also told CIS that Mr M was insured under the trade policy. Miss M 
also said that shed told the broker that Mr M was not the registered keeper, but the broker 
said that she hadnt discussed that with them. However Mr M and Miss M did later accept 
that Mr M did take out a policy in his name and that he wasnt the registered keeper. So 
thats not in dispute. But Mr M felt that CIS avoiding the policy was too harsh a punishment 
for forgetting to get the vehicle registration changed. He was unhappy because the third-
party insurer was pursuing him in court to recover their claim costs. He was also unhappy 
because his insurance premiums had gone up because CIS had avoided the policy. He felt 
that it was all an honest mistake and hadnt been deliberate.
But CIS said Mr M had failed to disclose correct information. They said that they wouldnt 
have insured him if theyd known he wasnt the registered owner and the policy information 
they sent him warned that such a failure may result in increased premiums, refusal of claim 
and his policy being treated as if it never existed.  
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
CIS had acted reasonably in declining the claim and avoiding the policy within the terms of 
their policy. And though a number of factors could cause an increase in premiums, the 
avoidance of a policy was something that insurers were entitled to take into account and that 
wasnt unfair. 
Mr M didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether CIS have acted reasonably in avoiding the policy and 
declining the claim. An insurer may only avoid a policy in certain circumstances.  The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations Act (CIDR) says that in order to do 
so, they must show first of all that there was a qualifying misrepresentation. To do that, the 
insurer must show that they asked a clear question, and that the consumer didnt take 
reasonable care in answering it. 
CIS have shown that they asked Mr M the question Are you the registered keeper and legal 
owner? and he ticked Yes. I think that was a clear question and Mr M did say that he was 
the owner and registered keeper. Neither Mr M nor Miss M, who completed the form, deny 
that. But they said it was an honest mistake. They thought that he was the registered keeper 
because they mistakenly thought the registration document had been sent off to be changed 
to Mr Ms name by the other family member. But in fact Mr M was not the registered keeper 
then and CIS have shown us their underwriters confirmation that they wouldnt have insured 
him if they knew this.
Mr M says that it should be enough that he was the owner and not being the registered 
keeper shouldnt matter and they could change that. But its up to insurers to say what they 
need to know to decide who to insure. And they have shown us their underwriters 
confirmation that they wouldnt have insured him if they knew this.
Mr M and Miss M have explained that Mr M is elderly and vulnerable and isnt familiar with 
computers or on the phone, and thats why Miss M completed the application online on his 
behalf. She said thats also why he was at first confused and said that he didnt have a policy 
with CIS. But I dont think that the confusion on his part then, or on her part, makes a 
difference. Thats because the application was completed on his behalf and both he and the 
person acting on his behalf thought he was the cars registered keeper. I accept that they 
may have thought and said that in good faith, without knowing that the ownership hadnt 
been changed, but this was something that could have been checked first.
So taking all of this into account, I dont think it was unfair of CIS to decide that Mr M didnt 
take reasonable care in answering CISs clear question about the registered keeper of the 
car. They include in their policy information warning that the information was important to 
them and so Mr M shouldnt have been in doubt that he should have given the correct 
information. And so I think CIS acted reasonably to decline the claim. 
Under CIDRA a misrepresentation can be deliberate or reckless or careless. CIS havent 
shown that it was deliberate or reckless, and so they have treated it as careless and so they 
must refund the premiums, as theyve agreed. 
I think that its really unfortunate that this situation happened, through some errors, and I can 
see its caused Mr M and his family a good deal of worry and expense. This is because the 
other insurer is seeking recovery of their costs of the other drivers claim. But its also 
because Mr M is his wifes carer and the increased insurance premiums mean thats it is no 
longer affordable and this has impacted his opportunity to get them out and about by car. 
But Ive got to look at whether CIS have done anything wrong. The fact remains that Mr M 
was not the cars registered keeper and if he had said that, CIS wouldnt have insured him at 
all. They are entitled to be given the correct information to assess their risk and are reliant on 
consumers to do that. 
Even if a consumers failure to do this arose from confusion or innocent mistake, its still not 
CISs fault. CIS have shown us what they needed to do to decline the claim and avoid the policy so I dont think that theyve acted unfairly. And so, while I appreciate that its not what 
Mr M would like to hear, this means that I wont be asking CIS to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
