DRN-4064026
The complaint
Mr I complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) has treated him unfairly in relation to a finance agreement he has with it.
What happened
Mr I entered into a loan agreement with BPF to finance a contract for the supply and fit of a 
kitchen. Mr I contracted separately with a third party I will call W for the supply and fit of the 
kitchen. Mr I is unhappy because BPF released the funds under the loan to W before the 
installation work had been completed. The payments under the loan then became due, but 
Mr I did not make them.
As a result of this, Mr I tells us BPF has asked the credit reference agencies to register 
negative information on his credit file about his repayment history towards his loan. 
Moreover, he tells us he has made a financial loss due to the presence of this information on 
his credit file. Mr I wants BPF to:
remove the negative information from his credit file, 
compensate him for the financial loss he has made (according to him) due to the 
negative information on his credit file,
and put the loan account on hold until the kitchen fitting is complete.
BPFs position is that it was entitled to activate the loan when it did. Specifically, BPF 
activated the loan only after W confirmed that it had supplied the goods and services it was 
contracted to provide to Mr I. However, as a gesture of goodwill, BPF said if Mr I clears the 
arrears and brings the loan repayments up-to-date, it will ask the credit reference agencies 
to remove the negative information from his credit file. But unless and until he does this BPF 
will continue to report the negative information. 
Dissatisfied, Mr I came to our service.
Once Mr Is complaint was with us BPFs provided us with a detailed explanation from W 
about the reasons why, from Ws perspective the kitchen had not been installed within the 
timeframe originally anticipated. In essence W puts the blame on Mr I. Ws stance is that it 
was entitled to tell BPF to activate the loan when it did.
Mr I also provided new information, about his complaint. In particular, he told us BPF had 
agreed his account would be frozen whilst BPF investigated a claim that Mr I has raised 
with it about the quality of the goods and services supplied under the contract with W. But 
then BPF had gone back on this agreement.
Later, Mr I pointed out that the contract with BPF says this about when W will be paid.
We will pay the amount of the loan to the retailer once we approve the loan and receive the 
signed agreement or when the retailer has supplied or shipped the goods or provided the 
services to you if this is later.
Mr I thinks this clause means that BPF made a mistake in releasing the funds to W and 
activating the loan, even though according to him he was still waiting for two hobs to be 
installed at this point. Mr I clarified that he had not told BPF prior to the loan being activated 
that he was waiting for the hobs to be installed.
Mr I also indicated that BPF should have made it clear to him in any event that when it said 
his account would be frozen this meant it would not make collection calls to him. Because 
he had taken this to mean that it was not going to pursue him for repayments whilst the other 
complaint was ongoing.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Is complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Is complaint should be upheld.
BPF accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr I did not. In summary, in rejecting 
our investigators recommendation Mr I reiterated his previous stance. He also told us his 
contract with W did not permit BPF to activate the loan in these circumstances and BPF is 
bound by the terms of his contract with W. Mr I also made points about his ongoing claim 
against BPF.
Mr I asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Is main complaint point is that BPF should not have activated the loan because he 
complains W has not completed the installation. This was his initial complaint. He then 
added in any event since he has raised a claim against BPF about the quality of the work 
and the goods supplied by W, BPF ought not to have activated the loan for this reason also. 
To be clear this claim is not part of this complaint and Ive not considered it in this decision.
But I dont agree that BPF has done anything wrong in relation to these complaint points and 
Ill explain my reasons for saying this below.
As a starting point the contract that Mr I has with BPF allows it to initiate the contract when 
the retailer has supplied or shipped the goods or provided the services to you. BPF and 
indeed W both say that W told BPF this condition had been met, therefore BPF initiated the 
loan. Mr I does not dispute that this happened. So on the face of it BPF complied with the 
contract. 
By his own account, Mr I did not tell BPF anything was amiss until after W had notified BPF 
as above. So in any event Mr Is notification to BPF came too late. Even if Mr I had told BPF 
that the goods and services had not been supplied or shipped at the same time W said they 
had been, this would still not have helped Mr I. I say this because Mr I and W are in dispute 
about this very point. In other words Mr Is position is that W has breached their contract, W 
position is that it has not. Therefore whether the contract has been breached or not, has not 
been determined yet. BPF is under no obligation to accept that there has been a breach of 
contract simply on Mr Is say so. That however is essentially what Mr I is asking BPF to do. I 
find the correct approach is what BPF actually did namely it looked into Mr Is claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, that W had breached the contract and BPF is 
responsible for this.
In any event, if BPF had delayed taking the repayments this may have prejudiced Mr Is 
position. As it stands Mr I is contractually obliged to make his repayments. So if BPF had not 
sought to take payments it could have left Mr I facing a big arrears bill in the end, if his claim 
under Section 75 and any subsequent complaint about this did not succeed.
Nothing Ive seen satisfies me that BPF ever agreed to freeze the repayments. Quite the 
contrary. Moreover, I think BPF has been clear in its communications with Mr I that it is going 
to keep on asking him to make the repayments and if he does not it will report this to the 
credit reference agencies, amongst other things. It follows that if Mr I misunderstood what 
BPF intentions were, Im satisfied in the circumstances that BPF cant be held responsible 
for this. Moreover, it follows from what Ive said I dont agree that it fair or reasonable that 
BPF be made to freeze repayments as Mr I requests.
Mr I has not made his repayments as he is required to do under the contract with BPF. In 
these circumstances, BPF is entitled to report his payment history which includes the missed 
payments to the credit reference agencies. Therefore Ive no proper basis for saying that 
BPF has acted inappropriately in registering this information.
Further, it follows Mr Is point about making a financial loss due to the negative information 
on his credit file falls away. Because if BPF has done nothing wrong in registering this 
information then any loss that flows from this is not something BPF has to compensate Mr I 
for.
Mr I mentions that BPF is bound by the terms of the contract between him and W. But it is a 
well-established principle of contract law that a contract cannot (as a general rule) confer 
rights or impose obligations arising under it on any person except the parties to it. So Im not 
persuaded by what Mr I says about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman