DRN-3898979
The complaint
Mr G complains he received less than expected when he made a withdrawal from an 
investment fund.
What happened
Mr G requested a withdrawal from a fund using the NatWest investment app. 
He complained to NatWest when he received around £300 less than was expected.
NatWest said the withdrawal had been made within the expected timeframes and at the 
correct price.
Remaining unhappy Mr G brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the messages in the app were clear 
about how the transaction would be processed and that the price shown wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr G disagreed providing further reasoning why he thought the messages werent clear 
enough. Our Investigator considered what Mr G said but still thought it was made clear that 
the value shown in the app wasnt guaranteed. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at what happened Im satisfied the transaction was processed correctly and Mr G 
received the amount that was due.
The issue here is with the warnings on the app when the withdrawal was requested. 
The warning displayed when making a withdrawal on the app says:
You may receive a little more or less than the amount youve chosen to withdraw. This is 
because it may take up to one working day from the time you withdraw to the funds being 
sold. 
So I think its made clear the value shown may not be the amount received when the 
withdrawal is processed. 
NatWest say the reason for this is because the unit price isnt determined until close of 
business on any given day and isnt known until the following working day.
The terms and conditions say:
Client Instructions to purchase or sell received by us on a Business Day are normally placed 
by us on the next Business Day after we receive the Client Instruction. 
And thats what happened here. The transaction was processed the day after it was 
requested by Mr G. So NatWest applied the terms and conditions correctly and the unit price 
from that day was applied. 
I understand Mr G is unhappy that the value shown at the time of the withdrawal isnt correct, 
however thats not possible due to the way in which the fund works. And I think its important 
to say that this is quite common for investment funds. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably so wont be asking them to take any further action. What happened was a loss of 
expectation rather than any mistakes being made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman