DRN-3839721
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as S, complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC responded to its 
request to identify and cancel recurring payments on its business credit card.
Mr B, a director and trustee of S, brings the complaint on S's behalf.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr B contacted Lloyds to find out if there were any recurring payments on Ss 
business credit card. He was advised there were no recurring payments. However, later in 
April a recurring payment was processed. 
Mr B contacted Lloyds again. He sought to cancel all the recurring payments on the card but 
was told this wasnt possible. He then asked for a list of the recurring payments but was told 
this also wasnt possible. Instead, he asked to close the card but, due to having disputed the 
previous recurring payment and this matter being ongoing, he was told this also wasnt 
possible at that time. These events occurred at a time when S was winding up its activities, 
with all of Ss staff having left the charity.
Mr B complained. Lloyds acknowledged that Mr B had been incorrectly advised regarding 
the recurring payments. It apologised and said that it should have told Mr B that payments 
dont show as recurring payments on its system as such payments are subject to the 
customers agreement with the merchant. The bank confirmed that it was unable to close the 
credit card due to the disputed transaction, in line with its standard procedures. Lloyds paid 
S £50 for its delay in responding to Mr Bs complaint and for the incorrect information he was 
initially provided.
Not content with this response, Mr B brought Ss complaint to our service. Mr B explained 
that, because recurring payments remained on the card and the card could not be cancelled, 
the charity continued to lose cash.
Our investigator considered Ss complaint but said that, in her view, whilst Lloyds initially 
gave incorrect information, the £50 compensation paid to S was sufficient to put things right. 
She said that the outcome would not have been any different had Lloyds told Mr B correctly 
in early April that it was unable to identify Ss recurring payments. She said that, as any 
recurring payment arrangements were between S and its suppliers, she would not expect 
Lloyds to be able to identify them. She also said it was reasonable for Lloyds to say it must 
allow 30 days for the merchant involved in a disputed transaction to challenge the refund, 
which necessarily held up closing the card.
Mr B didnt agree with this view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds initial mis-information
Lloyds has admitted that it provided Mr B with incorrect information in early April when it told 
him that there were no recurring payments attached to Ss card. One recurring payment to a 
supplier was processed automatically in April (which was disputed by S), and it appears that 
another recurring payment was processed to a different supplier in July. Lloyds has 
apologised for this error. 
However, had Lloyds provided the correct information at the time, it is not clear that anything 
would have been different. Mr B would still have been unable to identify the recurring 
payments until they happened; and, once hed disputed the payment in April, he would still 
have been unable to close the card until the matter was resolved. Therefore, I believe the 
£50 already paid to S for this mistake is fair.
Lloyds inability to identify the recurring payments
The central issue in this complaint is that Lloyds was unable to help Mr B identify the 
recurring payments on Ss card so that either he or the bank could then cancel them. Mr B 
has said that he doesnt believe this is not possible.
However, Lloyds has explained that a recurring payment on a credit card is arranged 
between the customer and the merchant directly. Unlike a direct debit, the bank is not 
involved. For a recurring payment on a credit card, the customer gives the merchant 
authority to claim payments at a set frequency, with no information provided to the bank 
about it. I believe this explanation is correct.
Therefore, I think Lloyds was right when it told Mr B that it does not have a way to identify 
the recurring payments attached to Ss card. For this reason, I do not believe it could have 
provided Mr B with the information he was seeking.
Lloyds inability to close the card while a disputed transaction was ongoing
Mr B would have liked to close Ss credit card to stop any further recurring payments being 
made. However, Lloyds explained that, having refunded S for the payment made in April, it 
was obliged to provide the merchant with a 30-day period in which to challenge that refund. 
This seems fair and is in line with Lloyds standard procedures in such circumstances. I do 
not think it unreasonable that the card had to remain open throughout this time.
Ss credit card was finally closed in September 2022.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed by this decision as I acknowledge that, in the 
circumstances in April 2022, S was winding up and it would have been very hard for him to 
obtain the information he was looking for from those who had been involved in running S. 
However, I do not believe Lloyds could have provided the information he was looking for and 
it could not have closed Ss card before the disputed transaction was resolved. 
Therefore, I do not believe I can fairly say that Lloyds has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman