DRN-1430629
The complaint
Mr W complains about the valuation Advantage Insurance Company Limited placed on his 
car under his motor insurance policy after it was declared a total loss. He wants it to pay 
what the car is worth. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was deemed to be a total loss following an accident. Advantage offered him its 
market value based on valuations provided by the motor-trade guides. But Mr W was 
unhappy with this as he said his car was an import and so worth more. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Advantages valuation had been made correctly according to our approach. She thought it 
was industry practice to value imported cars based on a vehicle designed for the UK market. 
So she thought Advantages offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W replied that he thought the valuation was unfair as hed paid double the premium cost 
for a UK car. Mr W asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Ws policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. 
This is defined as the cost of replacing the car in the UK at the time of loss with one of the 
same make, model, age and condition.
Mr W had valued his car in his policy documents at £5,000. But that doesnt mean that 
Advantage has to pay this amount in the case of its loss, just its market value. Ive seen 
policies for classic cars that have an agreed value where the insurer and the consumer have 
placed an agreed valuation on the car in the case of its total loss. But this isnt the case with 
Mr Ws car. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Advantage said the guides gave a valuation for Mr Ws car ranging between £1,399 and 
£1,755. It offered him the highest of these valuations, less the policy excess. I can see that 
the engineer found examples of similar cars in good condition with similar mileage 
advertised for process within this range.
I think Advantage correctly valued Mr Ws car according to our approach. It took into account 
the cars make, model, age, condition and mileage. As the investigator has already 
explained, its standard industry practice to value imported cars on cars designed for the UK 
market. So I cant say that the valuation should be increased because the car was an import. 
So I think Advantage correctly valued Mr Ws car based on its market value and according to 
our approach. So I think its settlement offer was fair and reasonable, and I dont require it to 
increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman