DRN-3022192
The complaint
Miss K complains HiFX Europe Limited (trading as XE) has charged her a large sum of 
money for an international transfer that didnt go ahead.
What happened
On 9 December 2020 Miss K opened an account with XE and entered into two transactions 
 a large international money transfer and a small one.
Twenty minutes later, a member of staff at XE attempted to call Miss K to discuss her 
account and what international transfers shed be looking to do. The member of staff couldnt 
get through to Miss K, so they emailed her instead. In that email the member of staff said 
that they could see Miss K had registered for an account and thought it would be best to talk 
through her requirements over the phone to discuss how best XE could help in more detail.
Miss K couldnt get through to the member of staff, so she emailed them back shortly 
afterwards. In her email Miss K said that she was transferring money from the US to the UK 
for a deposit for a house, that shed used another money transfer company in the past but 
found it slightly complicated so did some research to find XE. Miss K also said that shed 
created an initial transaction for just over 50,000 USD but having thought about it decided it 
was a large amount of money to do having not used XEs service before so she thought she 
would do a tester with 1,000 USD first.
The member of staff emailed Miss K back shortly afterwards to say that XE could definitely 
help her, that a tester transfer was a good idea and that shed be happy to quote over the 
telephone for the larger transfer and see if they could offer a better rate.
Miss K emailed the member of staff shed been speaking to the following day saying that 
shed like to cancel both transactions. The member of staff emailed Miss K back to check 
that she wanted to go ahead with the cancellation and explained that shed be liable for XEs 
close out costs. Miss K replied confirming that shed like to cancel both transactions. XE 
cancelled both transactions and emailed Miss K to say that shed need to pay them just over 
£1,350  the close out costs of the cancelled transactions  within seven days.
Miss K complained to XE saying, amongst other things, that the contract hadnt been 
finalised so she shouldnt be liable, that its terms and conditions were lengthy and onerous 
for someone whod only opened an account that day, that it hadnt provided any evidence 
that it had incurred costs and that demanding payment within seven days was threatening. In 
short, she wasnt happy paying the costs XE said that it had incurred closing out the 
transactions.
XE investigated Miss Ks complaint and agreed that the email its member of staff had sent 
should have been clearer. Specifically, the member of staff should have explained that a 
trade had already been entered into rather than suggesting that they could get Miss K a 
better rate. As a gesture of goodwill, XE agreed to cancel the close out costs for the smaller 
transfer and offered to cover £300s worth of the close out costs of the larger transfer. Miss K 
said she wasnt happy, so she complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks complaint and said that they didnt think XE 
had treated her unfairly and that it had acted in accordance with its terms and conditions. So, 
they didnt think XE should do more. Miss K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look 
into her complaint. So thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K had money in the US that she needed to transfer to the UK for a deposit for a house. 
Shes used other money transfer businesses in the past but didnt find them straightforward 
to use. So, she did some research, and opened an account with XE as a result. The day her 
account was opened  ID checks etc having been done  she entered into two transactions 
 one to transfer just over 50,000 USD and one to transfer exactly 1,000 USD. In the emails 
Miss K subsequently exchanged with XE, and from the calls she had with them after she 
complained, it appears she decided to transfer 50,000 USD and then on reflection decided 
that was a lot of money to ask a company shed never done a transfer with before so it would 
be better to do a test transfer of 1,000 USD first. In other words, she decided that it would be 
better to do a test transfer before paying 50,000 USD to XE. So, Miss K didnt send the 
50,000 USD she should have done, preferring instead to set up a second transfer. Its a 
shame that Miss K didnt do a test transfer before setting up the larger transfer as that might 
have avoided the problem that shes now faced with.
A member of staff at XE emailed Miss K to say that theyd like to speak to her about her 
international transfers. They did so having left a voicemail as theyd been unable to get 
through to Miss K. Miss K emailed the member of staff back having also had problems 
getting through to them. Ive seen all the emails Miss K and XE exchanged, and Ive listened 
to calls they had too, as well as a recording of the voicemail the member of staff left.
At some point, Miss K changed her mind and organised the transfer through another 
business. I can understand why she might have done this  she organised a large transfer, 
had second thoughts about how sensible it would be to send a large sum of money to a 
business she hadnt dealt with before, so organised a small tester transfer instead and then 
had problems getting through to XE. This did, however, mean that XE incurred costs closing 
out both transactions  costs that it then charged onto Miss K.
Before Miss K would have been able to confirm the transfers, she would have had to click on 
XEs website to say that shed read its terms and conditions and she would have had to read 
a statement explaining that XE would secure an exchange rate for her as soon as it received 
her order. Ive looked at XEs terms and conditions, and I can see that they draw its 
customers attention to the consequences of entering into a transfer and the costs involved if 
the transaction is cancelled on the first page of the terms and conditions  and it does so 
prominently. I dont, therefore, think its unreasonable to say that Miss K should have been 
aware that XE would secure an exchange rate for her as soon as it received her order and 
that it would charge her any closing out costs it incurred if she cancelled her order. In the 
circumstances, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of XE to go ahead and secure an 
exchange rate for Miss K when she placed her order  as I can see it did  or for XE to 
charge her the costs it incurred  as I can see it did  when she decided not to go ahead 
with either transaction.
One of Miss Ks objections to paying XEs costs was that it hadnt shown her that it had in 
fact incurred any costs. As Ive just said, Im satisfied it did and it has also evidenced them. 
Another of her objections was that the email exchanges she had with one of XEs member of 
staff implied that the contract hadnt yet been finalised. I agree with Miss K that the email exchanges she had with one of XEs members of staff could have been clearer. The member 
of staff could have made it clear, for example, theyd already secured a rate for Miss Ks two 
transfers and that they wanted to speak to her about her future plans. But I dont think the 
email exchanges mean that Miss K can say she hadnt entered into the transactions or that 
there wouldnt be cost implications if she cancelled them. It follows, given what Ive already 
said about the website and XEs terms and conditions, that I agree with our investigator that 
XEs decision to waive the costs associated with the smaller transfer and £300s worth of 
costs associated with the larger transfer was more than reasonable. XE no doubt offered to 
do this as it had hoped Miss K would be a source of potential business, and because she 
was also a customer of theirs. Either way, I agree that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
ask XE to do more. So, I dont think it would be fair to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that 
this will be disappointing for Miss K.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman