DRN-3446590
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr D holds with HSBC UK Bank plc. Mr D complains that 
HSBC:
has denied him access to a lower mortgage rate because he is in arrears; and
refused a request for a lower rate that he made in August 2020 unless he provided an 
income and expenditure analysis, a step he considers unnecessary because it is 
self-evident that lowering the rate will be affordable to him.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr D and HSBC. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr D 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Briefly, Mr Ds mortgage reverted to HSBCs standard variable rate (SVR) in August 2008 
after an initial discount period; in 18 July 2008 HSBC had written to tell him he could apply 
for a new rate if he wished, but the mortgage remained on SVR. In 2010, Mr Ds mortgage 
went into arrears; in 2012, a court issued a suspended possession order requiring Mr D to 
pay the full monthly payment plus an extra amount calculated to repay the arrears by the 
mortgage term end. The arrears have reduced over the years, albeit the terms of the order 
havent always been maintained. HSBC has contemplated reverting to court for a new 
possession order, but that hasnt happened thus far.
In 2019, HSBC let Mr D know he could apply for a new rate, but he apparently wasnt 
interested in doing so at that time. In the latter part of 2019, Mr D was trying to sell the 
property, but that fell through in early 2020. Around the same time, HSBC received a 
payment holiday request, but its notes suggest it wasnt able to make contact with Mr D to 
follow that up.
In early August 2020, HSBC informed Mr D that his account had been part of a remediation 
exercise it had carried out; as a result, it had refunded, with interest, a little over £4,500 of 
historic fees and charges relating to its management of the arrears. A few days later, HSBC 
wrote to say that arrears recovery action was on hold in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
but could be revisited if Mr D didnt contact it. 
Mr D contacted HSBC, asking for a new rate and a term extension. HSBC asked Mr D to 
complete an income and expenditure analysis; he refused, saying it was unnecessary. Mr D 
argued it was self-evident that giving him a lower rate was beneficial, as it would allow him to 
pay more towards reducing his arrears more quickly. 
Mr D complained that HSBC had denied him access to a lower rate because of his arrears 
history, but HSBC maintained its position that it needed a better understanding of Mr Ds 
wider financial situation. Mr D referred his complaint to this service; by way of redress, he 
asked that his account be re-worked as if it had been on a lower rate since 18 July 2008, 
and the difference be refunded to him.
Our investigator issued his view of the complaint in February of this year. Firstly, he 
explained that our rules limited him to considering only what had happened in the six years 
immediately preceding Mr D starting his complaint; that is, since September 2014. When he 
did that, the investigator couldnt find any indication that Mr D had asked for, and been, 
refused, a new rate between September 2014 and August 2020. As far as the August 2020 
request was concerned, the investigator wasnt persuaded HSBC was being unreasonable 
or treating Mr D unfairly.
Mr D rejected the investigators findings. He pointed out that whilst the complaint had been 
with us, HSBC had put him on a new rate, without seeing an income and expenditure 
analysis. When the investigator checked this with HSBC, it told us its underlying policy 
hadnt changed, and the most likely explanation was that an inexperienced staff member had 
agreed the new rate unaware of the requirement for an income and expenditure analysis. As 
Mr D wants to continue with the complaint, its come to me to review.
By way of a jurisdiction decision issued on 5 April 2022, I confirmed, with reasons, why our 
remit to consider this complaint was confined to HSBCs treatment of Mr D since 
21 September 2014. Both parties were given a further two weeks to make any final 
comments on the issue before I dealt with the merits. That time has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Mr D has accused the investigator of bias, but 
having a different opinion from someone isnt, of itself, evidence of bias. 
Mr Ds complaint of unfair treatment stems from his mortgage having been on HSBCs SVR 
since August 2008. However, our rules only allow us to consider how HSBC has treated 
Mr D since 21 September 2014.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The available evidence points to Mr D only ever having made one request for a lower rate 
since 21 September 2014; that was the one he made in August 2020, and Ill address that 
shortly. Im satisfied Mr D has been given ample opportunity to provide evidence of other 
requests between those dates. He makes the point that he does not record such contact, but 
HSBC does. I dont disagree, and its HSBCs records  contemporaneous notes that well 
generally attach some weight to - that point to the August 2020 request being the only one. 
But its largely moot, and speculative, to consider how HSBC might have responded to any 
other request Mr D might have made before then. We dont generally deal with complaints 
about something that might have happened but didnt. 
HSBC wrote to Mr D in July 2019 explaining that it may be able to help him with a lower rate 
and invited him to contact it. Mr D didnt ask for a new rate at that time. He will have had his 
own reasons for not taking HSBC up on that; it may have been because at that time he was 
contemplating selling up. Either way, it was his prerogative.
That brings me to the August 2020 request; the starting point here is that HSBC at no time 
refused the request. What it did was ask Mr D to complete an income and expenditure 
analysis, because it wanted to assess not just Mr Ds request for a new rate but his wider 
arrears position too. Thats quite justifiable in my view; important things for HSBC to consider 
were:
the implications of committing Mr D to changes (rate and term extension) that hes might 
not be able to afford sustainably;
the inconsistent payment history  HSBC doesnt know what Mr D can or cannot afford 
bearing in mind he hasnt always been able to make his payments regularly when theyre 
due;
that it has a duty to ensure its tailoring any forbearance to Mr Ds specific situation in 
order to help him in the most appropriate way.
Doing the above - and using an income and expenditure analysis to do it  are entirely 
consistent with what the regulator would expect a lender to do in respect of a borrower with 
long-standing arrears that are the subject of a suspended possession order. Mr D steadfastly 
refused to complete the questionnaire; that was his prerogative too, but insofar as HSBCs 
request was reasonable, I cant fairly conclude that the bank was required to provide a new 
rate and/or a term extension unless and until Mr D complied with the request.
The fact that HSBC did subsequently provide a new rate without an income and expenditure 
analysis has no bearing on my finding on this key element of the complaint. It didnt happen 
because HSBC changed its wider policy, or because HSBC had previously acted 
unreasonably. It was a mistake, and no more than that.
I mentioned earlier that Mr Ds mortgage is the subject of a long-standing suspended 
possession order. Mr D has asked that we comment on the notion that the order might now 
be somehow invalid. Thats not something that falls within my remit; the ongoing validity or 
otherwise of a court order is a matter for the court, and no other body. But its not inherently 
unfair or unreasonable of HSBC to contemplate going back to court to lay out the current 
position and ask the court to make a fresh order. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Mr Ds submissions the intensity with which he has brought the 
complaint. He sees error and/or wrong-doing in almost everything HSBC has done (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as 
close to a situation as Mr D has been here.But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman