DRN-3933667
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his car insurer, Advantage Insurance Company Limited, in 
relation to a claim he made to it when his car was damaged in an accident.
What happened
Mr A had an accident in late November 2021. Advantage accepted his claim and felt his car 
was not economical to repair. It said it would settle with him for the market value of his car, 
less the excess. Mr A wanted to keep his car. On 6 December 2021 Advantage said the 
market value was £2,500. Mr A objected to this and on 21 December 2021, the same day 
Mr A was told the courtesy car would have to be returned, Advantage said it would increase 
that to £2,648. Mr A had to return the courtesy car, he was expecting Advantage to carry out 
another review and on 11 January 2022 Advantage said it would pay Mr A £2,403 as an 
interim payment (being the market value less his policy excess). Advantage then said it 
would not review the market value further. Mr As policy was later cancelled.
Advantage noted that it had not deducted an amount from the settlement to allow Mr A to 
retain the car. It said it had not been aware he had wanted to do so before it paid the interim 
payment. It said the sum it would have deducted was £662. 
Mr A complained to Advantage  about the value and the service received, including the 
cancellation. Advantage said it had settled the claim for the market value based on the 
highest values given in trade guides used for valuing vehicles. So it wasnt prepared to pay 
Mr A anything more. It accepted that its service had fallen short of its standards and said it 
would speak to Mr A about his current policy needs, following the policy cancellation, as it 
wasnt clear if he found cover elsewhere. It said it would pay £60 compensation. 
Mr A remained unhappy and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Advantage 
told us that it had closed the claim without demanding the retention fee from Mr A. It said he 
had benefitted from keeping his car without having to pay this sum. Further, whilst it was 
aware that Mr A had since taken out a new policy, at a cost, whilst not having been able to 
benefit from the remaining cover on his Advantage policy, Advantage felt that loss was 
balanced by the saving Mr A had made on the retention fee. Mr A told us his replacement 
cover had cost him over £900, his cover with Advantage having totalled around £800 (£550 
to start with, increasing in October 2021 when cover for business use was added).
Our Investigator felt that Advantage hadnt communicated well during the claim, that it 
should pay a total of £200 compensation. He noted that Mr As policy had been cancelled 
but felt that, overall, with Advantage not pursuing Mr A for the retention fee, which was more 
than any pro-rated premium remaining on the policy, the claim and policy had been drawn to 
a fair and reasonable end.
Regarding the valuation, upon review, our Investigator noted that Advantages settlement 
was based in part on a deduction of £170 for the cars condition. Our Investigator did not 
think that was fair given the age of the car and the problems noted. He said Advantage 
should pay a further £170 to Mr A, plus interest.
Advantage did not respond. Mr A was unhappy. He felt that this had gone on for a very long 
time, with Advantage having constantly dealt with him poorly and misleading him  £200 was 
insufficient. He said Advantage cancelling the policy as it did had meant he has had to 
declare this to future insurers. The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A believes that his car was worth around £3,500, that Advantages 
settlement was too low and did not take into account the condition of his car. And I can see 
that when looking at the market value, Advantages loss adjuster did make a deduction from 
the average of the values returned by two of the trade guides used for determining the 
market value of vehicles. But most older cars have some degree of damage to them, so 
making a further deduction from the values returned by the guides, for the minimal damage 
described  marks on the bumper and scratched alloys, doesnt seem fair or reasonable. 
Simply, I dont think that is anything more than damage often found on a car of that age 
which, therefore, the values returned by the trade guides would already have accounted for. 
So the trade guides Advantage considered returned values  for a car like Mr As and taking 
into account its lower than average mileage  of £2,670 and £2,965. The average of those 
two (rounded up) is £2,818. I note our Investigator also checked other trade guide prices. He 
had access to three guides and returned the following values; £2,350, £2,670 and £3,095. 
Im satisfied that £2,818 sits within the range of those values. Im satisfied that £2,818 is a 
fair and reasonable market value for Mr As car. As such Im going to require Advantage to 
pay an extra £170 to Mr A being the amount Advantages engineer unfairly deducted from 
that fair market value sum.
I appreciate that Mr A may still think that £2,818 is too low. But this service usually finds the 
trade guides to be reliable sources for determining market values. And if an insurer settles a 
claim using a market value that is in the range of the trade guide values available, well likely 
find that is fair and reasonable. Unless, of course, there is compelling evidence available of 
the car in question having a value which the trade guides cant or dont account for in some 
way. And Ive seen nothing like that here. In saying that Id explain that we dont usually find 
sales adverts compelling evidence of market value because they only present the asking 
price for a car  they dont show what cars actually sell for. So Im satisfied that £2,818 is a 
fair and reasonable market value on this occasion.
I know Mr A is unhappy that Advantage cancelled his policy. But that is the usual course of 
action following a car being declared a total loss. I can see that some misunderstanding 
occurred here because Mr A wanted to keep his car  but Advantage paid him the 
settlement sum without making a deduction for the cars salvage value. Because Mr As car 
was a total loss that, technically, made it Advantages property. And Advantage would 
usually sell a car like this, allowing it to make some money. So, to Advantage, the car had a 
salvage value. Advantages file here shows that it didnt apply a salvage value to the 
settlement because it knew Mr A was disputing the same. Unfortunately that meant that 
Advantages file wasnt updated to reflect that Mr A was keeping the car and, therefore, 
might need to retain the policy cover. So Advantage sent its standard cancellation notice to 
Mr A and the policy ended as it usually would where Advantage becomes the owner of a 
total loss car. 
I can see why that was frustrating for Mr A. Not least as when Mr A received the letter stating 
that the policy would be cancelled, he says he emailed Advantage to say cancellation wasnt necessary as he was keeping the car. I know Mr A got no reply to that email. But also that no 
email in this respect is showing from Mr A on Advantages file. Advantage should have 
managed the claim settlement better  which would likely have avoided the situation arising 
where the policy was put forward for cancellation. But when Advantage didnt respond to 
Mr As attempted contact, Mr A assumed that meant his policy wouldnt end. And I dont 
think that was a reasonable assumption for Mr A to make. But because Advantage had set 
the policy on course for cancellation, and Mr A didnt chase Advantage to make sure that 
was not going to happen, the policy ended. Reasonable action by either party would have 
prevented the situation where the policy came to an end. Just as I think Advantage should 
have done more in this instance, I think Mr A, as a responsible car driver, should have done 
more too. 
With the policy ending as it did Mr A had to find alternate cover. I know that came at a price 
 and he had already paid his full years premium for cover to Advantage. Because the claim 
was settled on the basis of the car being a total loss, Mr A wasnt, strictly speaking entitled to 
a refund for the months of cover not used. But it seems, subject I expect to the car being 
repaired, that Advantage would have continued cover for the remainder of the year  but for 
the salvage and cancellation mix-up. Before Mr A added business use to his policy shortly 
before the accident, Mr A had paid £550 for cover for the year, which began in August 2021 
and, after the accident happened in November, the policy was cancelled in February 2022. 
So Mr A had six-months of cover, albeit two and a half of those months followed the total 
loss accident. And if his policy would have remained in place, hed have had a further 
six-months of cover, including for business use, which had already been paid for  worth 
about £425 in total (£275 for standard cover and £150 for the additional business use). But 
the mix-up over the salvage meant Mr A lost the chance to benefit from that money. And he 
had to take out a new policy sooner than he otherwise would have done. But the mix-up also 
meant that he gained extra money in his total loss settlement because Advantage did not 
deduct £662 from that sum as its salvage value. And Advantage has confirmed it will not be 
asking Mr A to pay that sum back to it. To me that feels like a fair outcome  both failed to 
act reasonably which provided the circumstances in which the policy was cancelled when it 
otherwise would not have been, but both have simultaneously lost and gained in roughly 
equal proportions from that whole situation. I certainly dont think that Mr A is worse off than 
he otherwise would have been.
In saying that I note that Mr A is concerned that his new policy cost more  and that he will 
continue to see an impact in that respect as he tells insurers that his policy was cancelled. 
However, I dont think Mr A has seen much of an increase for his new cover. He has said it 
was about £900  which is not really much more than the total price for his previous cover 
which cost about £800. And on the old cover Mr A only added business use part way 
through the policy year  so £800 does not represent a full years cost of cover. Im also 
mindful that all insurers view and rate risks differently, and not all will rate negatively on 
cancellations that occur following a total loss claim. It also isnt clear that the cancellation is 
what caused the new insurance to cost more. As such, Im not persuaded there is a loss in 
this respect. Although, if there were, Id have to bear in mind what Ive said about Mr A 
having had the chance to prevent the cancellation from occurring. 
I think its also fair to say though that Mr A receiving no reply from Advantage was not an 
isolated incident during the course of the claim. I note Advantage, in its final response letter, 
acknowledges and accepts that. So I accept that communication from Advantage was not 
good during the claim and that was frustrating for Mr A, particularly when he was led to 
believe there would be a further valuation review. 
I also note that in the early stages of the claim Mr A was given the benefit of a courtesy car, 
and that this provision continued whilst the total loss settlement was initially negotiated. But 
also that around two-weeks into that negotiation, Advantage ended the agreement abruptly. Im conscious that many policies out there do not offer a courtesy car for policyholders where 
their car is determined to be a total loss. And Mr As policy reflects that. So, him having the 
courtesy car at all after the total loss decision was made, was an additional benefit to him 
which the policy did not entitle him to. And I can understand why Advantage ended the 
provision. But I think the situation, when Advantage decided to revoke the courtesy car, 
could have been handled better by it, which would have avoided much of the frustration and 
inconvenience Mr A was caused. 
Overall Im satisfied that Advantage failed Mr A, and that its offer of £60 compensation is not 
fair and reasonable to make up for the upset caused. Im further satisfied that £200 is fair 
and reasonable compensation in the circumstances here. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage to pay Mr A:
£170 as an additional settlement for his claim, plus interest* from the date the main 
settlement payment was made, until this sum is paid.
£200 total compensation, but if £60 has already been paid, then only the difference 
remaining needs to be paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Advantage to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman