DRN-2161005
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the time taken to transfer their ISA to a new platform with 
Mazars Financial Planning Limited.   
They say theyve lost out financially as result of this. 
What happened
Mazars didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said: 
The delay in Mr and Mrs Cs ISA transfer was due to the transferor not having the 
correct information on its system. When notified of issues, it and the transferee acted 
promptly to rectify this each time.
Mrs Cs ISA transfer was completed 10 working days before Mr Cs because the 
transferor continued to experience issues. This had nothing to do with Mazars. 
When transferring an existing plan, the market performance might increase or 
decrease the value of the investment prior to the transfer, and inevitably therell also 
be a period when the investment is out of the market. This all may result in the final 
investment amount being less (or more) than indicated in the suitability report when 
the advice to transfer was given  but this doesnt mean its responsible for any 
losses.   
Mazars also provided the following chronology of events:
On 18 February 2019, Mazars sent instructions to transfer Mr and Mrs Cs ISA to a 
new platform, via Altus, the electronic system used to facilitate ISA (and GIA) 
transfers between providers. In response to this, on 19 February 2019, the transferor 
commenced sale of Mr and Mrs Cs holdings, and between 21 February and 25 
February 2019 the cash funds settle with the transferor. 
Meanwhile on 22 February 2019, the transfer forms were received by the transferee 
and forwarded to the transferor. However, this was rejected on 1 March 2019 as the 
names and address didnt (purportedly) match transferors records. In response 
Mazars re-confirmed the details to the transferee the same day. 
On 6 March 2019, the transferors custodian  which held the money for safe keeping 
 confirmed that the earlier transfer request was rejected due to an address 
discrepancy and missing middle names. The same day Mazars confirmed the 
address and provided the middle names to the transferee  and received 
confirmation on 11 March that the application had been sent. 
On 12 March 2019, the transferee received a valuation regarding Mr Cs ISA, but on 
15 March 2019, the transferor rejected the transfer again, due to an (alleged) 
incorrect date of birth. Mrs Cs application was rejected on the same day, but a 
reason wasnt given. The very same day the transferee re-submitted the application 
form, this time manually. 
On 21 March 2019, the transferor confirmed that the payment will be sent within 10 
working days (by 4 April 2019). On 28 March 2019, the transferee received 
£172,770.68 for Mrs C and her account was submitted for closure. But the same day, 
the transferor again rejected Mr Cs request due to an incorrect date of birth. The 
very next day Mazars provide a certified copy of Mr Cs passport. 
On 3 April 2019, the transferee confirmed that it re-submitted a copy of the transfer 
request. Finally on 11 April 2019, it received £206,829.75 for Mrs C.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Although Mazars couldve provided Mr and Mrs Cs middle names when it made the 
request on 18 February 2019, it still responded promptly to the any request and 
supplied the information that was required to resolve the issue. 
Mazars isnt responsible for the delays caused by the issues relating to Mr Cs date 
of birth because it supplied the correct date of birth. 
Overall the business has acted in a reasonable manner to facilitate the transfer and 
therefore isnt responsible for the delay. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, they said:
In the age of speedy communication, theyre unhappy with the delay between 18 
February and 1 March 2019. 
Mazars not supplying their full names in the first place, resulting in this delay, 
wouldve been due to the lack of proper care and attention. 
Mazars had all their details, including their file, when it took over from the 
predecessor business, so had this information at hand. 
Mazars shouldnt have instructed the new provider to convert their funds into cash, 
until it had verified that they had the correct details. 
As a result of all the delays, theyve lost the benefit of growth over 53 days. 
They were under the impression that their funds remained invested, but this wasnt 
the case. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what Mr and Mrs C say, I am unable to say that the business has behaved unreasonably 
such that the complaint should be upheld. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr and Mrs 
Cs strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to support 
this complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, 
as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by them and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, 
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C say that the platform providers are blaming each other, but in this 
decision, Im only looking at the conduct of Mazars, and not any other business. 
I note that the transfer request was made on 18 February 2019 electronically. Mazars 
perhaps shouldve included Mr and Mrs Cs middle names in the request, but a failure to do 
so at this point doesnt mean that the complaint should be upheld or that Mazars are now 
responsible for the delay. Having seen a copy of the signed (and dated) transfer application 
from I cant say that it contains any incorrect information regarding Mr and Mrs Cs name, 
address and date of birth. Im unable to say if any additional supplementary information was 
submitted, but I think its unlikely. 
I note that part of the reason for rejecting the request on 1 March 2019, was because of a 
discrepancy with the names and address, so it seems unlikely that things wouldve 
progressed smoothly even if Mazars had provided the middle names on 18 February 2019.  
I note Mazars responded the same day (1 March 2019) but only re-confirmed Mr and Mrs 
Cs names and address. I cant blame it for not providing their middle names on that 
occasion because it wasnt asked for them. I appreciate Mr C is particularly unhappy about 
the period between 18 February 2019 and 1 March 2019, but I think Mazars wouldve 
responded sooner had it been asked for the (correct) information at an earlier date. Mazars 
was only notified (by the transferors custodian) on 6 March 2019, that Mr and Mrs Cs 
middle names were needed, and it responded the same day and confirmed that they had the 
same address. 
I note, following the rejection of the application on 15 March 2019, the transferee re-
submitted the application form, the same day, but this time manually. Mrs Cs transfer was 
eventually made but Mr Cs request still had a discrepancy  it seems the transferor had the 
correct day and year for his date of birth, but the wrong month. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Mazars supplied the incorrect information. 
I note the very next day (29 March 2019) Mazars provided a certified copy of Mr Cs 
passport, as confirmation of his correct date of birth which I dont think it was routinely 
required to submit as part of the application to transfer. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not sending this sooner. I note it only did so to enable the transferor to update its 
records.  
Overall, Im satisfied that Mazars responded promptly to try and resolve any issue. Ive not 
seen any evidence of it ignoring correspondence, not having an answer or taking time to 
respond. 
I appreciate the other points made by Mr and Mrs C, but I dont think it was for Mazars to 
verify whether (or not) the transferor had the correct details once the application had been 
sent. If there was an issue it wouldve been for the transferor to get in touch. 
I also note this was a cash transfer rather than a transfer in-specie, which is why on 19 
February 2019 Mr and Mrs Cs holdings were sold by the transferor so that cash could be 
transferred in due course. I note that when transferring from one provider to another the 
values can go up or down, but I dont think this means Mazars is now responsible for any 
potential loss in value due to delay, because I cant say that Mazars was responsible for 
causing any delay. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that Mazars 
behaved unreasonably. I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate 
their frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman