DRN-3541353
The complaint
Mr M complains that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance (KR) has not offered 
him a mortgage due to inconsistent information provided in his application and that it has 
added a fraud marker to fraud prevention databases on the basis of conflicting salary details. 
What happened
Mr M says that he was given an Agreement in Principle (AIP) by KR but that it later wouldnt 
offer him a mortgage as it said that the application was fraudulent. As a result of this, his 
mortgage broker advised him to contact fraud prevention databases which she said noted 
conflicting salary details.
At the time of the application, Mr M was employed by his brother and put down salary and 
dividends as income on his mortgage application. KR requested some further information 
from him during the course of the application process due to discrepancies in the information 
provided. It was not satisfied with the information provided and therefore did not make Mr M 
a mortgage offer.
Mr M has tried to get KR to reverse its decision through his broker but it has refused to do 
so. Mr M has been badly affected as he sold his previous home and has moved in with 
family for what was intended to be a short period and he now has nowhere to live and has 
had to put all his belongings in storage. He initially asked that KR reconsider the application 
and grant the mortgage. However, he has now indicated that he does not want the lending 
decision to be overturned but wants the fraud marker to be removed.
KR says that it is unable to amend its lending decision. It says that an Agreement in Principle 
(AIP) is provided based on the information provided in the application. This is subject to full 
underwriting which would only result in a formal offer if this and the property valuation were 
satisfactory. KR says that during the underwriting of Mr Ms application, adverse information 
was found which was of concern. It therefore made the decision not to proceed with the 
application. 
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt believe that KR had acted unreasonably. 
She found that, as KR was not happy with the information about Mr Ms pay, she couldnt 
say it was unreasonable in choosing to decline Mr Ms application or in adding a fraud 
marker on the relevant fraud prevention databases.
Mr M disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. He says that 
whilst he understands that there were some clerical errors with his pay and KR was within its 
rights to refuse to offer the loan, it is wrong for this to be marked as fraudulent. Mr M says 
that he was mistakenly being underpaid but that this has been corrected and does not 
amount to fraud. He says that the mistake wasnt his as he doesnt work in accounts but the 
fraud markers are against him which is not fair. He says that if he was aware of everything 
that went on in his brothers company then he would have challenged the fact that he was 
short-changed long before.
The accountant for Mr Ms employer has also stated that Mr Ms salary via PAYE (where the 
discrepancy occurred) was only a small part of his total income as declared on his self-
assessment tax return and that his total income including dividends was around £50,000. It 
is therefore said that the underpayment of £554.08 over 17 months is less than 1% of his 
annual income and would have no bearing on the loan amount he could get so there would 
be no reason to try and inflate his salary for this purpose. The accountant says that it was an 
honest error by the employer due to the fact that tax and national insurance thresholds were 
moved, which meant that Mr Ms gross salary resulted in a different net amount after tax and 
national insurance. The accounting software which does the payroll was automatically 
adjusted but the standing order with the bank for Mr Ms salary had to be manually adjusted 
and this was overlooked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
I note that Mr M has now indicated that he does not want the lending decision to be 
overturned but just wants the fraud marker to be removed. So I wont deal with this point in 
any detail, save to say that an AIP is not a guarantee that a mortgage will be granted or a 
formal offer, but a confirmation of what could potentially be offered on the basis of the 
information provided in the application. Whilst I understand that Mr M sold his home as he 
anticipated being granted a mortgage, I cannot hold KR responsible for this as it did not 
provide him with a binding mortgage offer.
A lender is not obliged to proceed with an application if the customer doesnt meet its lending 
criteria at the underwriting stage of the process. In this case, during underwriting KR was not 
happy with the information it had received in Ms application regarding his income. It is not 
the role of this service to tell a lender whether it should grant a mortgage but we can look at 
whether KR has acted fairly and in line with its lending criteria. Having looked at the 
information provided in this case, I dont think KR was unreasonable in declining to offer Mr 
M a mortgage.
I will now look at what is now Mr Ms main complaint point in relation to the fraud marker.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services sector, allowing 
financial businesses to share information to protect themselves and their customers from 
fraud. However, its important that a marker is only applied where it can be justified. Ive 
taken this into account when looking at Mr Ms case. Having done so, Im satisfied that KR 
hasnt acted unfairly by placing a marker on the fraud prevention database.
I have looked at the application summary submitted by Mr Ms broker which states that his 
total income from employment was £46,519, made up of £15,269 basic income and £31,250 
other allowances. Ive also looked at the bank statements, payslips and tax documents 
provided by Mr M as part of the application process and in response to information requests 
from KR. 
KRs concerns were based on discrepancies between these documents. It went on to make 
further enquiries in relation to this and, having looked at this information, Im satisfied that 
KR didnt act unfairly when it recorded that there were conflicting salary details on the 
National Hunter database.
Mr M has provided an explanation for the inconsistencies between the payslips and the 
salary credits on the bank statements (the payments into his account being around £25 less 
than the figure shown on his payslip each month) and describes the situation as being down 
to minor clerical errors by the companys accountant. The accountant for his employer (his 
brothers company) has also made submissions to this service. I understand that the 
explanation for this discrepancy is that it was due to the fact that tax and national insurance 
thresholds were changed but the standing order for Mr Ms salary payments was not 
changed to reflect this, which meant there was an underpayment in terms of net pay to Mr 
M. Mr M has said in his response to the investigators view that if he was aware of the fact that 
he was being underpaid then he would have challenged this long before. I note that this 
discrepancy appears to have been identified by October 2021; the accountant has said to 
the broker in an email dated 4 October 2021 that the difference is because the company is 
using a figure from ages ago and that Mr M is owed some money. The broker has emailed 
the accountant back on 16 November 2021 (copying in Mr M) to ask if he can adjust Mr Ms 
payslips retrospectively for June to September to match his bank statements (albeit that it is 
the bank credits rather than the payslips which are apparently incorrect). 
Our investigator asked for evidence to show that the money owed had been paid to Mr M. It 
was only once this service requested this that the amount was calculated and the 
underpayment of £554.08 was credited to Mr Ms account in May 2022. The accountant has 
explained that this is the difference between the figure on the older payslips and what Mr M 
received into his bank account. The accountant has also set out that Mr Ms salary has been 
adjusted from the October 2021 payroll onwards to reflect the net pay being made so there 
is now no difference between the payments made and that on the payslips. So, although Mr 
M was said to have been underpaid for many months and he has said himself that he would 
have challenged this earlier had he known, nothing happened in relation to the 
underpayment for at least seven months to rectify this and his net salary has now been 
decreased again to match the lower amount going into the bank. 
In addition to the discrepancies in the salary paid, I also note that KR has not been able to 
verify other information contained within the documentation provided. So Im satisfied that 
KR applied the marker fairly to the fraud prevention database. Having received further 
information since the marker was applied, I am also satisfied that the grounds it had for 
applying the marker remain and I wont be asking it to remove this. 
In light of the above, I dont think it was unfair that KR put the marker on the fraud prevention 
database and I dont require it to take any further action. 
In relation to the effect of the fraud marker on Mr M, a fraud marker added by a business 
should not be grounds for another business to decline an application  instead it should be 
grounds to conduct further checks. So another lender should not automatically reject an 
application made by Mr M on the basis of this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022. 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman