DRN-4165976
The complaint
Miss B and Mr C are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society down-valued the property 
they wanted to purchase. As a result, they were unable to port their interest rate product 
onto a new mortgage on that property. They found another lender, which offered them a 
mortgage at a lower interest rate, but had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) on 
redemption of their Nationwide mortgage, which they want Nationwide to reimburse.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss B and Mr C being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Miss B and Mr C had a mortgage with Nationwide. In 2021 they wanted to move house. 
They found a new property to buy costing £260,000. They wanted to port their current 
mortgage interest rate product for about £92,000 of the purchase price and borrow an 
additional £88,000, giving a total of £180,000.
Nationwide commissioned a surveyor (who was not local to the area where the property was 
located) to carry out a desktop valuation, and he valued the property at £215,000. This 
meant that Miss B and Mr C couldnt have the interest rate product theyd wanted for their 
additional borrowing. This was because the loan-to-value ratio (LTV) was higher than if the 
property had been valued at the figure Miss B and Mr C thought it was worth - £260,000. 
They also wouldnt be able to afford the new property as theyd have insufficient equity from 
their sale to cover the difference in the valuation and the purchase price.
Through their mortgage broker, Miss B and Mr C appealed the valuation, providing details of 
comparable properties. The surveyor considered this and changed the valuation to 
£235,000. The surveyor also said we would suggest that a physical inspection is instructed 
and carried out. However, this was not done, which Nationwide has accepted was an error 
on its part.
Because they couldnt get the mortgage they needed from Nationwide, Miss B and Mr C 
instead had to look for a new lender. After that lenders surveyor had carried out a physical 
inspection, the property was valued at £260,000. Miss B and Mr C were able to purchase the 
property with a mortgage of £185,000 (£5,000 more than theyd wanted to borrow from 
Nationwide. However, on redemption of their Nationwide mortgage they had to pay an ERC 
of £2,748.96.
Miss B and Mr C complained. Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to 
our service. Initially the investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. However, on 
further review, the investigator noted that Nationwide had acknowledged that it had made an 
error in failing to instruct a physical inspection of the property, in line with the surveyors 
suggestion. As a result, Miss B and Mr C had been deprived of the opportunity to take the 
valuations appeal further, which might have changed the outcome. 
The investigator thought Nationwide should reimburse the £65 redemption fee and the ERC, 
less the difference in monthly repayments on £180,000 at the Nationwide interest rate 2.04% 
and the new lenders interest rate 1.98%, until 31 January 2024, and taking into account the 
£500 cashback from the new lender. Although it appeared from its initial response that 
Nationwide had accepted this, Nationwide later asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
Nationwide has made a number of points, and I summarise the relevant points below:
borrowers have no choice about whether a valuation is carried out physically or by a 
desktop valuation;
it is not Nationwides policy to allow appeals on desktop valuations;
even if thered been a physical valuation, this doesnt necessarily mean the valuation 
would have been higher;
the Nationwide desktop valuation was done in August 2021 and the new lenders 
physical valuation in October 2021, 3 months later. There could have been a number of 
factors that resulted in the property increasing in price by £45,000 in those three months, 
because the Office of National Statistics (ONS) shows an 11.8% increase in house 
prices, up from 10.2% in August 2021. Therefore, the time between the two valuations 
makes them non-comparable.
even though the surveyor who carried out a physical inspection of the property for the 
new lender valued it at £260,000, we dont believe it can be assumed that the valuation 
 was the correct one;
any concerns Miss B and Mr C have about paying the ERC will need to be raised with 
their broker, as he advised them to go to another lender;
even if Nationwide had made an exception to its policy and carried out a physical 
valuation, there is no evidence to suggest that a higher valuation would have been 
obtained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have taken into account all the evidence, as well as relevant law and industry 
practice.
Valuing a property for mortgage purposes is not an exact science. Valuation involves 
professional judgement, but there is a margin of error which the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and the courts consider acceptable  usually 10%, but at its 
absolute highest, 15%. It is therefore an accepted industry standard that there should be no 
more than a 15% margin of error. 
However, in this case, the difference between the valuation and the purchase price was 
about 17.5%, which is outside the acceptable tolerance level for a margin of error. Given this, Im satisfied that the surveyor, quite reasonably, suggested a physical valuation of the 
property.  Although Nationwide has said that it doesnt allow appeals against desktop 
valuations, it has also acknowledged that it could, if it wanted to, have gone outside its policy 
and instructed a physical valuation.
I note that Nationwide has acknowledged in its complaint notes that it made an error. After 
its surveyor suggested there should be a physical inspection of the property, Nationwide 
failed to follow this up. 
Nationwide also says there is no evidence that a higher valuation would have been 
obtained. However, Im satisfied that the only reason there is no evidence is because 
Nationwide didnt take any steps to obtain that evidence by instructing a physical valuation. 
Given that the margin of error was outside the accepted RICS and judicial tolerance levels, I 
think Nationwides error in failing to instruct the valuer to inspect the property (an error 
which, I emphasise, Nationwide has acknowledged it made) deprived Miss B and Mr C of the 
opportunity to test whether the desktop valuation was accurate or not.
Its possible that a physical inspection might not have resulted in a valuation of £260,000 
which the new lenders surveyor thought it was worth, but its equally possible that it might. 
Because Nationwide failed to take the correct action and instruct a physical valuation, the 
opportunity was lost to obtain that evidence. That isnt the fault of Miss B and Mr C. 
I dont think the small increase in the ONS house prices index between August 2021 and 
October 2021 can account for such a vast differential between the two valuations. So whilst 
Ive noted what Nationwide has said about this, Im not persuaded that it affects the 
outcome.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the complaint should be upheld. Im 
satisfied that Nationwides actions deprived Miss B and Mr C of the opportunity to test the 
desktop valuation. Nationwide has acknowledged it could have gone outside its policy do to 
this, but failed to do so. 
In the circumstances, given Nationwides error, Miss B and Mr C were left with no option but 
to go to another lender. I disagree that this was their choice, as theyd been put in a position 
of having no choice but to redeem the mortgage. I think this was avoidable, had Nationwide 
followed its surveyors suggestion and instructed a physical inspection of the property.
Im satisfied that Nationwides actions caused financial loss to Miss B and Mr C. I think it is 
more likely than not that if there had been a physical valuation, theyd have stayed with 
Nationwide, albeit if the valuation had not been at the full £260,000 they might have needed 
to choose a different interest rate product. But given the margin of error which was outside 
acceptable RICS tolerance levels, and based on the available evidence, I think its more 
likely than not that if a physical valuation had been carried out, the property would have been 
valued closer, quite likely even at, to the purchase price rather than the desktop valuations. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair to use the interest rate Miss C and Mr B were on for the product they wanted 
to port  2.04%  as  the benchmark for the calculation.
To settle this complaint, Nationwide Building Society must do the following:
add together the ERC of £2,748.96 and the redemption fee of £65  A;
deduct from A the difference in the repayments on £180,000 that Miss B and Mr C would 
have made on their Nationwide mortgage at 2.04% and the new lenders rate of 1.98% from 28 January 2022 (the date of redemption) until 31 January 2024 (the date the new 
lenders product ends)  B;
deduct the £500 cashback Miss B and Mr C received from the new lender  C;
pay to Miss B and Mr C the amount of A - (B+C) = D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building Society to settle 
the complaint as detailed above. 
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman