DRN-3928256
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms T holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Ms T says, in 
summary, that Barclays:
1. mis-sold the mortgage in 1986 by including her name on it; and
2. made mis alterations to the information held on the property title at HM Land Registry.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint have been set out in the detailed response issued 
by our investigator, a copy of which has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to 
repeat the details in full here. Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Ms T being identified. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
The investigator gave her view of the complaint in November 2022; she explained that we 
are time-barred from considering the first element of the complaint, as Ms T has waited too 
long under our rules to raise it. As to the second element, regarding the property title, she 
didnt recommend it be upheld. We didnt hear from Ms T immediately, but when we did, she 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Im satisfied Ms T has had ample opportunity to make a further submission and overall 
fairness requires me to bring this case to a conclusion rather than leave it hanging 
indefinitely. There are two parties involved in this dispute and Barclays has indicated that it is 
awaiting a conclusion to the case before deciding its next course of action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview 
and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Some of the matters Ms T is still expressing concerns about here have already being 
covered in a separate complaint, where we explained we had no jurisdiction to consider 
them. Im not revisiting those matters. 
Also, we dont simply pick up and run with individual issues as they occur; if that were the 
case, complaints would in effect become moving targets and risk never being brought to a 
conclusion. 
Ms T has also mentioned things she says have happened in relation to other addresses from 
the one thats subject to the mortgage under consideration here. Those matters would have 
to be referred to Barclays to address first in a final response, before we could be involved in 
them. I appreciate that might not be sit well with Ms T, but its how our rules require us to 
operate. I now focus on the complaint before me here.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We revisit jurisdiction at every stage of our complaint-handling process; that being the case, 
Ive looked at what our investigator has said about why she thought we had no remit to 
consider the first element of the complaint  the alleged mis-sale of the mortgage with Ms T 
as a borrower  on its merits. Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
We arent free to deal with every complaint we receive. Were bound by our rules  which in 
turn flow from legislation  that set out the types of complaints we can look at. Those rules 
are maintained by the FCA and are published in the FCAs Handbook, under the heading 
DISP. 
Section 2 of DISP sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It covers 
such things as who is bringing the complaint, what its about, which business its about and, 
crucially, time limits on how long after a person becomes aware of a problem they can wait 
before complaining about it. 
Theres no issue on the first three aspects of our jurisdiction I referenced in the preceding 
paragraph. Ms T is a consumer and therefore eligible to complain to us. The subject matter 
of this complaint  the lending of money secured by a mortgage on land  is an activity we 
can look into, and Barclays is covered by our scheme. The problem is with the time limits in 
our rules.
Ive looked at everything Ms T and Barclays have said about the time limits that apply in this 
complaint, and Ive reviewed our rules. Having done so, Im afraid I have unwelcome news 
for Ms T.
The event giving rise to the complaint is the granting of the mortgage (by a former building 
society that is now part of Barclays) to two people, one of which was Ms T. That was in 
1986. Under our rules, Ms T needed to have raised her complaint either:
within six years of the event shes complaining about (i.e. by the date in 1992 marking 
the sixth anniversary of the mortgage starting); or 
within three years of when she knew or could reasonably have become aware that she 
might have cause to complain.
Ms T made this complaint in 2022 which is clearly outside the six-year limit, by about thirty 
years. As far as the three-year element of the time limit is concerned, its not always easy to 
assess when a consumer might reasonably have known for the first time about the issue or 
event that theyre complaining about, thus starting the three-year clock running. Here 
though, Im satisfied I can safely identify a trigger-point for the three-year clock.
The rules we follow dont just require me to consider what a consumer did know; I have to 
take account of what they ought reasonably to have known, and when they should have known it. Also, Ms T didnt need to know of all of the reasons for her complaint, just that 
something had gone wrong, and the lender (now Barclays) might have been to blame. 
Given what Ms T has said about why she thinks the mortgage shouldnt have been granted, 
all she needed to know was that the mortgage existed, and that she was named as one of 
the borrowers. Its very likely Ms T knew that more or less from the outset, but the provision 
of annual statements showing her named as a borrower will, in my view, have removed any 
doubt. these will have been issued throughout the life of the mortgage, but the earliest we 
have on file is that for 2016, issued in January 2017. 
Putting all of the above together my conclusion is that the three-year clock on part one of 
Ms Ts complaint probably started running as soon the first annual statement was issued in 
1987, but definitely by January 2017 at the latest when the 2016 statement was issued. So 
the complaint was clearly raised outside both time limits. That means we could only consider 
the case if I thought exceptional circumstances had prevented Ms T referring the complaint 
to us in time, but theres nothing in the evidence before me here that would cause me to 
think that was the case.
That leaves the second element of the complaint, Ms Ts belief that Barclays has tampered 
with the information recorded on the mortgaged propertys title entry at HM Land Registry. 
We have a copy of the entry on file, and having examined it closely, I cant find anything that 
I wouldnt expect to find, and nothing that appears inconsistent with the circumstances. In 
essence, the title entries record the acquisition of the property by Ms T and another party 
(not present in the complaint) in September 1986, subject to a mortgage provided by 
Barclays in August 1986.
My decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that:
part one of Ms Ts complaint has been started outside the time limits in our rules, 
meaning we have no jurisdiction to consider it; and
part two of the complaint isnt upheld on its merits.
My decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman