DRN-4063273
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services, who Ill 
call VWFS.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Mrs Y has been represented by her son in this complaint, but as Mrs Y is named on the 
credit agreement, and for convenience, I will refer only to her in this decision. I mean no 
disrespect to her son when doing so.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs Y, but I dont think VWFS need to take any action here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs Y acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs Y. The car here was a 
couple of years old and had completed about 30,000 miles. So, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with a brand-new car.
Mrs Y has explained that a family member inspected the car before it was supplied. A paint 
chip and some damage to the windscreen was noted and those repairs were completed 
shortly afterwards. I dont think the evidence suggests Mrs Y attempted to reject the car at 
that stage, Mrs Ys own submissions to this Service explain that blemishes and a cracked 
windscreen were reported to the dealership, and they agreed to repair them.
That also appears to have been the case with the error messages, wing mirror crack, 
rattling, and speaker issues. The evidence suggests Mrs Y agreed to faults being repaired 
too.
I dont therefore think VWFS need to take any further action about those issues as I think the 
repairs are likely to have been requested, and it seems theyve been completed 
successfully.
It wasnt until early August 2022 that Mrs Y noticed paintwork issues with the car. Mrs Y says 
that because of those paintwork problems she should be allowed to reject the car and end 
her finance agreement. She says she had a short term right to do so within the first 30 days.
The relevant legislation explains that a consumer has 30 days within which to reject goods 
that are of unsatisfactory quality. In this case the 30 days started running when Mrs Y took 
ownership of the car on 16 June 2022 but as Mrs Y agreed to repairs  a waiting period 
started on the day of the request and ended on the day Mrs Y got the goods back. But Mrs Y 
didnt report the paint damage until the start of August 2022 and that was after 30 days, 
regardless of any waiting period. So, I dont think the paint issues gave Mrs Y a short term 
right to reject the car. And, as Im persuaded she accepted repairs for the other problems, I 
dont think those problems did either.
The CRA says that every contract to supply goods is to be treated as including a term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. But goes on to explain that does not cover anything 
which makes the quality of the goods unsatisfactory:
9 (4) (b) where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, which that 
examination ought to reveal
Mrs Y told the dealership that on 7 August 2022 after washing the car the sunlight made the 
damage to the paintwork perfectly visible.
An email to the dealership explained:
There is a matte feeling coating on left hand side of car and bonnet  its just front
passenger and rear passenger left and bonnet {sic}
I understand that Mrs Y has explained the damage isnt visible in all light, but given the 
extent of the damage, I think it ought to have been identifiable when the car was initially 
inspected. I can see that a stone chip was picked up during that inspection so it was clearly 
reasonably rigorous and even if the damage wasnt visible it seems the matt feel would have 
been clear to the touch. 
Im not therefore persuaded that any paintwork damage of the type reported could fairly be 
considered to render this car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
If Mrs Y was told something that was false and if that false statement was a significant 
reason why she entered into the deal, I may think the car and the related finance agreement 
had been misrepresented to her. Mrs Y has provided a copy of an email from the dealership 
in which they say they havent resprayed the car and she suggests thats at odds with the 
body shop opinion that overspray was apparent, and the paint coating was too thick. Im not 
persuaded there is evidence the dealership provided a false statement when they said they hadnt resprayed the car. That doesnt mean the car may not have been resprayed by the 
previous owners and, if it had (and I make no finding about that), I dont think that would 
make this car of unsatisfactory quality or suggest it was misrepresented, as I dont think it 
would be unusual for a car of this age and mileage to have some bodywork repairs.
Ultimately, I dont therefore think it would be reasonable to ask VWFS to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman