DRN-3420539
The complaint
Mrs O complains about a loan from 1Plus1 Loans Limited, (1Plus1), which she says was 
unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on Mrs Os behalf by a claims 
management company. But for ease I have referred below to all actions being taken by     
Mrs O.
What happened
1Plus1 provided Mrs O with a loan of £3,000 in March 2015. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Mrs O failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 23%, (45.4% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 36 monthly 
repayments of £140.84. If Mrs O made each payment when it was due, shed pay £5,070.24 
in total. The loan was repaid in October 2017. Mrs O said that the loan was to be used for 
buying a car.
Mrs O said that 1Plus1 didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting credit or
assess signs of her over-indebtedness. The unaffordable high cost loan worsened a financial 
situation which was already poor.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said that 
1Plus1 hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before this loan. 1Plus1s 
credit checks seemed to indicate that Mrs O was in financial difficulty. And had 1Plus1 
evidenced what Mrs O told it, 1Plus1 would most likely have seen that Mrs O wasnt 
managing her finances well and that she wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way.
1Plus1 disagreed. It responded to say, in summary, that:-
- Mrs O did not have an excellent credit rating, but its business model was focused on a 
demographic customer that might not have a good credit history. 
- It queried what further checks should have been made other than the steps 1Plus1 had 
already taken. 1Plus1 said there was no requirement to view bank statements. 
- It considered this loan to be a small loan and reviewed Mrs Os income level, and 
monthly repayment to assess affordability and not the overall costs. 
- It made employment checks to check that Mrs O received the income she stated. 
- Mrs Os credit file evidenced her non-essential expenditure. 
- It included a buffer to account for fluctuations in discretionary expenditure, to check that 
Mrs O could afford to meet the contractual instalments as and when they fell due. 
- Mrs O had suggested to 1Plus1 that she had an arrangement to pay with her existing 
creditors and that she was given advice by a debt company to say that she could offer 
any payment and creditors would have to accept this. 1Plus1 said this was indicative of 
Mrs Os attitude towards credit as opposed to suggesting that she did not have the 
disposable income to repay the loan. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs O
and to 1Plus1 on 9 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
 
When 1Plus1 lent to Mrs O, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged 1Plus1 to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
1Plus1 needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a 
borrower could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so 1Plus1 had to think about whether Mrs O 
could sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs O undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1Plus1 to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on  
Mrs O. 
And as in this case, where Mrs O had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments in 
the event that she couldnt, 1Plus1 was still obliged to assess whether in the first instance 
Mrs O could meet her repayments without undue difficulty.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Id noted that before agreeing the loan, 1Plus1 spoke to Mrs O on the phone and gathered 
some information from her about her income and expenses. Id listened to a recording of the 
call. 1Plus1 also carried out a credit check. Mrs O told 1Plus1 that she lived with her partner and had no dependents. She was a tenant 
and she paid £200 rent and her partner paid for all the household bills. She told 1Plus1 she 
paid monthly amounts totalling £104 for three phones, £50 per week on petrol and £100 per 
month on clothing. In its final response letter, 1Plus1 said Mrs Os expense figures matched 
or exceeded statistical information from the Office for National Statistics (ONS), and 
she would be left with much more than the monthly loan repayment and a buffer of at 
least £100 for emergencies. 1Plus1s affordability assessment form shows Mrs Os 
expenses totalled £1,114 including her credit commitments and a buffer of £200. So, she 
was left with a disposable income of £886 from which to pay the monthly loan 
repayment. But 1Plus1 was required to establish whether Mrs O could sustainably make her 
loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Id noted that Mrs O had told 1Plus1 that her net monthly income was roughly £2,000. 
1Plus1s final response letter said it verified Mrs Os income electronically, but I noted that it 
didnt ask for Mrs Os payslips. So, I couldnt be sure that 1Plus1 used an accurate figure for 
Mrs Os income when calculating her disposable income. 
I also couldnt see that 1Plus1 had asked for evidence of Mrs Os living costs. I didnt think it 
was reasonable for 1Plus1 to rely on ONSs statistical information about Mrs Os living costs. 
ONS data is based on the finances and expenditure of the average consumer. But 1Plus1 
knew when it lent to Mrs O, that it was providing a loan to someone whose credit file 
suggested they fell outside this average portfolio. 
Bearing all this in mind, I thought it would have been proportionate for 1Plus1 to have taken 
steps to verify Mrs Os actual expenditure in line with CONC 5.3.1(4) instead of choosing to 
rely on a potentially inaccurate comparison with ONS data. 
CONC 5.3.1(4) said:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
1. (a) 
the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it 
is reasonably foreseeable that it will differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
2. (b) 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer;
I appreciated that 1Plus1 had used higher expenditure figures compared to the amounts  
Mrs O had declared at the time of her application. I thought this suggested it wasnt confident 
in the information Mrs O had provided. But I also didnt think that the lender could be 
confident that the adjusted figures were accurate either. And I didnt think that 1Plus1s 
checks were enough here to get a clear picture of Mrs Os finances at the time of her loan 
application for the lender to be confident that she would be able to make her loan 
repayments sustainably.
1Plus1 had also provided this Service with a summary of Mrs Os credit commitments from 
its credit checks. The summary didnt show either the dates the credit was taken out or the 
original loan amounts. 1Plus1s summary of Mrs Os credit commitments showed that Mrs O had three accounts 
defaulted in the six months prior to the loan application, with the most recent default only 
around three months before the application. The three default balances totalled £2,766. But 
this wasnt the only sign of adverse credit on the checks. There were also six accounts on 
which Mrs O had recently missed payments. There were missed payments in the month 
prior to the loan application on five of the accounts, and two of these accounts appeared to 
have been in arrears for at least six months. One of these accounts was Mrs Os mortgage. 
The sixth account, a loan with a balance of £9,176, appeared to have been six months in 
arrears four months prior to the loan application. Only two accounts with total monthly 
payments of £66 appeared to be paid satisfactorily. 
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Altogether I thought the three 
relatively recent defaults and the six accounts with relatively recent missed payments should 
have put the lender on notice that Mrs Os finances had been significantly under pressure for 
some time. And I thought they might also have reasonably caused doubt on the accuracy of 
the expenditure information Mrs O had provided and the disposable income it had 
calculated. It didnt appear from the phone call that 1Plus1 had any concerns about the 
defaults and missed payments. Mrs O said on the call with 1Plus1 that she had an 
arrangement with her creditors to make monthly repayments of £10, although this didnt 
appear on the credit checks for all her adverse credit.  
I didnt think 1Plus1 had thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
suggested about Mrs Os overall financial situation and the likelihood of her being able to 
pay its loan in a sustainable manner. Although 1Plus1s affordability form showed that Mrs O 
had a disposable income before making the loan repayment of £886, I thought 1Plus1 
shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information which was significantly at odds with 
what 1Plus1 saw on its credit checks. I thought 1Plus1 should have realised that what it saw 
on its credit checks painted a very different picture of Mrs Os financial situation and strongly 
suggested Mrs O was experiencing significant money problems. 
It seemed to me that 1Plus1 was focussing on its calculation of whether the loan was 
affordable for Mrs O on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs O could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. 
And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that they 
were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Overall, I thought 1Plus1 ought reasonably to have realised that Mrs O was most likely over 
committed financially, that there were strong indications she was having difficulty managing 
her finances and it was likely she would need to borrow elsewhere to repay the loan. I 
thought 1Plus1 ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs O would have 
been able to sustainably repay her loan over the 36 months term. So, I didnt think 1Plus1 
made a fair lending decision here when it agreed to lend to Mrs O based on the information it 
had gathered.
I havent gone on here to consider here what proportionate checks would likely have shown 
1Plus1, because as Id explained above, I thought 1Plus1 was irresponsible to have agreed 
the loan on the basis of the information it already had. But I thought it worth mentioning that Id reviewed credit information on another complaint 
Mrs O had brought to this Service. I could see that this showed that Mrs O had other recent 
defaulted accounts which were not shown in 1Plus1s credit checks. The mortgage account 
Id referred to above and the loan account with a £9,176 balance were both defaulted in the 
month prior to the loan application. There was also an unsatisfied county court judgement for 
£538 made around three months before the loan application.
Id also noted from 1Plus1s contact notes that Mrs Os first loan repayment was made late. 
And her account was again in arrears four months later. Id noted that Mrs O had said that 
she had to take out a payday loan in order to repay 1Plus1s loan. I thought all this was 
foreseeable.
So, subject to any further representations by Mrs O or 1Plus1, I said that I intended to 
uphold Mrs Os complaint. I didnt think 1Plus1 had made a fair lending decision here when it 
agreed to lend to Mrs O based on the information it held and I intended to say that 1Plus1 
needed to put things right as follows:-
Putting things right  what 1Plus1 needs to do
I understand that the loan has been repaid. As I intend to conclude that 1Plus1 was 
irresponsible to have lent to Mrs O, she shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or charges 
on the loan. 
So, 1Plus1 should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mrs O on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Os credit file in relation to the 
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Mrs O responded to my provisional decision to say that she was happy with it.
1Plus1 disagreed with my provisional decision and responded to say:-
- Mrs Os income was verified using information from a credit reference agency and 
then followed up with calls to Mrs Os bank through third party links to confirm her 
income received.
- It noted that I had referred to another complaint made by Mrs O. It didnt consider 
that this was fair on the basis that the complaint should be dealt with on the 
information at the time the loan was incepted.
- There was no requirement to obtain evidence for Mrs Os living costs from any FCA
            rules/legislation.
- The credit file information it obtained was via a third party and it could only act on the 
information obtained by the company it used.
- It queried whether I had obtained evidence that the loan was unaffordable via        
Mrs Os bank statements at loan inception. It referred to another decision of this 
Service regarding a complaint being upheld without proof of non-affordability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
I have considered 1Plus1s response to my provisional findings. I appreciate that this will be 
very disappointing for it but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it to have agreed 
the loan for Mrs O. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional decision and Ive also 
responded to its main points in response to my provisional decision below. 
I note what 1Plus1 has said about verifying Mrs Os income. But it hasnt provided any 
details of this. So I dont know whether 1Plus1 checked that Mrs O was in receipt of roughly 
£2,000 each month or whether her income varied due to items such as overtime and the 
refund of expenses.
I note that 1Plus1 is unhappy that I referred to another complaint. But I had reached my 
decision here on the basis of the information known to 1Plus1 at the time of the loan. I 
thought that the information 1Plus1 had seen in its credit checks strongly suggested Mrs O 
was experiencing significant money problems. 
I note that 1Plus1 said that there is no requirement to obtain evidence for Mrs Os living 
costs from any FCA rules/legislation. As Id said above, 1Plus1 was required to establish 
whether Mrs O could make her loan repayments without being caused undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this by, 
for example, requesting bank statements from Mrs O, asking for copies bills and/or receipts 
for her expenses and by asking her for more information about her existing credit 
commitments.
I note what 1Plus1 says with regard to its credit checks. I wasnt suggesting that 1Plus1 
obtain numerous credit check reports. But I thought Mrs Os credit payment history was 
concerning especially considering her relatively recent defaults and missed payments. In 
Mrs Os circumstances, I dont think 1Plus1 could be satisfied from the information it had 
seen that it could safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mrs O. I 
think 1Plus1 should have realised that it wasnt reasonable to base its lending decision on 
that information. 
I hadnt seen Mrs Os bank statements in this case. But for the reasons set out above, I 
thought 1Plus1 was irresponsible to have agreed the loan on the basis of the information it 
already had. 
1Plus1 has also referred to another decision of this Service. However, as 1Plus1 knows, we 
assess each case on its own merits and it isnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints as the circumstances may be very different.
So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It 
follows that I uphold this complaint and require 1Plus1 to take the steps set out above under 
the heading Putting things right - what 1Plus1 needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I   
order 1Plus1 Loans Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading 
Putting things right  what 1Plus1 needs to do.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman