DRN-2279649
The complaint
Mr C complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (which Ill call OFS) provided him with 
a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In January 2019 Mr C took a car on hire purchase from OFS. The car was over five years old 
and had a recorded mileage of around 37,000. The total cash price was a little under 
£12,000. 
In July 2019 the car was subject to a manufacturers recall, so that preventative work could 
be carried out on the engine. Mr C says that after this he arranged for the car to be re-
mapped  an adjustment of the engine control unit to improve a cars performance. The car 
had been re-mapped before Mr C acquired it, but the recall work had restored the factory 
settings. 
Mr C says that, in December 2019, the car broke down; it was misfiring and smoking badly. 
The car was inspected and diagnosed with a lack of compression in one of the cylinders. Mr 
C contacted OFS, which suggested he arrange for an independent inspection. He did that, 
and the resulting report concluded that there was a crack in one of the cylinder linings. The 
recorded mileage at this point was around 42,000. 
Mr C complained to OFS that the car had been faulty when he acquired it. OFS didnt agree, 
however. It referred to the engineers report that Mr C had obtained and which, it said, 
concluded that it was unlikely the cylinder crack had been present or developing at the time 
the car was supplied. Mr C didnt accept what OFS said and referred the matter to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. Initially she agreed with Mr C but, 
following further submissions from OFS, changed her mind and said she thought it likely the 
problems with the car were the result of wear and tear. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators revised opinion and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint.               
What Ive decided  and why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement should be read to include a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means it should be of the quality a reasonable person would expect 
in the circumstances  including, for example, the cars age, mileage and price. Quality 
includes matters such as fitness for purpose and durability. 
There is no dispute here that there were problems with the car after Mr C had had it for 
around 11 months. The issue I have to consider however is whether that meant that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was collected by Mr C. 
I note that the car  along with others of the same make  was recalled by the manufacturer 
in July 2019. Im satisfied however that the preventative work carried out then was unrelated 
to the problems Mr C experienced some months later. 
The damage to the engine was significant and expensive to repair. It doesnt however follow 
that it was present or developing at the time Mr C took the car on hire purchase, or that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The engineers report noted that Mr C had driven the car 
without problem for nearly a year and that it had covered around 5,000 miles in that time. It 
said too that the damage would have developed over time but, had it been present in 
January 2019, it would have become apparent within about 500 to 1,000 miles. The engineer 
didnt think it was a pre-existing defect. 
The engineer suggested too that the service history and engine control unit be investigated. 
The report didnt comment directly on the effect of re-mapping on the cylinder, although the 
investigator noted that the car had been adjusted to produce around 320 bhp, significantly 
more than the factory setting on the engine. 
By the time the problem developed, the car had covered around 42,000 miles and was six 
years old. Whilst thats not excessive, those factors and the conclusions in the engineers 
report lead me to think that the engine failure was most likely the result of wear and tear, 
rather than any defect that was present at the time of supply. For these reasons I agree with 
the investigators revised conclusions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Oodle Financial Services Limited to take any further 
steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman