DRN-2455696
The complaint
Mrs A complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) sold her property for less than 
it was worth after it took possession of it. She says that TMW failed to secure the property 
properly which allowed squatters to occupy it and cause to damage to it, resulting in a lower 
sales price being achieved.
What happened
In 2007, Mrs A entered into an interest-only mortgage with TMW to purchase a property 
which had been valued at £600,000. Unfortunately, Mrs A fell into financial difficulty, and in 
September 2010, TMW took the matter to Court and was granted possession of the 
property.
A short time later, TMW instructed a local agent who inspected the property and suggested a 
recommended asking price of £500,000. The agent felt a probable sales price of £475,000 
could be achieved if the property was sold within twelve weeks. TMW also instructed an 
independent surveyor who was a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS), who valued the property at £450,000.
I understand that in late September 2010, the property was put on the market with an initial 
asking price of £499,950. Unfortunately, the property was broken into and became occupied 
by squatters before it was sold. TMW took the matter to Court and following an eviction by 
Police, it recovered possession of the property in December 2010.
Shortly afterwards, the property was put back on the market. And in May 2011, it was sold 
for £460,000. After fees and charges were deducted from the sales price, there was a 
shortfall on the mortgage balance of around £63,000.
In August 2019, Mrs A complained to TMW that it had allowed squatters to occupy the 
property who had caused damage to it, resulting in it being sold below market value. She 
referred to the property being valued at £600,000 in 2007 and felt it could have been sold for 
significantly more than it was had squatters not been allowed to cause damage to it. She 
asked for around £65,000 to be paid to her for the loss of value of the property. 
In September 2019, TMW explained that it had already issued a response dated           
August 2017. This explained that it felt it had been fair and reasonable and had acted 
diligently throughout the whole process. It also confirmed that due to the time that had 
passed, it was no longer pursuing Mrs A for the shortfall of £63,000.
Unhappy with TMWs response, Mrs A referred her complaint to our service.
TWM didnt consent to our service considering the complaint because it felt it had been 
made to our service too late, in line with the relevant rules that our service is required to 
follow. Another Ombudsman decided that we could consider Mrs As complaint due to 
exceptional circumstances which explained her delay in registering a complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
he didnt feel Mrs A had suffered any financial loss as a result of squatters occupying the 
property and causing damage to it. This was because TMW had written off the outstanding 
balance of £63,000.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said squatters had occupied the property within a week of her 
leaving it and the valuation report was incorrect because it referred to the property having a 
front garage, which it didnt have.
The investigator was satisfied that the initial viewings took place before squatters broke into 
the property. He also explained he felt the lender had employed a suitably qualified person 
to carry out a valuation and it hadnt acted unreasonably by relying on the information 
contained in the report.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mrs A suffer any financial loss?
Mrs A says that TMW failed to secure the property properly, which allowed squatters to 
occupy it and cause damage to it, resulting in a lower sales price being achieved and her 
experiencing a financial loss of around £65,000.
TMW says the property was secured in line with its normal process, and it didnt take extra 
measures such as installing shutters and boarding because it was concerned that this could 
affect the marketability of the property. 
TMW has provided its internal notes which appear to indicate that the property was broken 
into via the basement door. However, theres also reference to keys being found at the 
property. So, it isnt clear to me exactly how squatters were able to access the property and 
whether this could have been avoided had more been done to secure the property.
In any event, the property was broken into whilst it was in TMWs possession. So, Ive gone 
on to think about the impact this may have had on the sales price achieved.
The rules of mortgage regulation (known as MCOB) say that a lender should market the 
property as soon as possible and obtain the best price that might reasonably be paid (MCOB 
13.6). 
We would expect lenders to instruct at least two valuations on the property, one of which 
should be carried out by an independent surveyor.
TMW has provided evidence to show it received two valuations before putting the property 
on the market. A local agent suggested a recommended asking price of £500,000 and felt a 
probable sales price of £475,000 could be achieved if the property sold within twelve weeks.  
TMW also instructed a RICS independent surveyor, who valued the property at £450,000. The property was initially marketed at £499,950, which was at the top end of what the local 
agent had recommended and significantly more than the independent surveyors valuation.
TMW says that a market review took place on 20 October 2010 and it was told that five 
viewings had taken place and two offers had been received. It says the first offer of 
£415,000 was rejected and the second offer of £475,000 couldnt proceed because the 
person who made the offer needed to sell their property first.
TMW also says the local agent noted that the general feedback had been that the property 
was in poor condition.
Mrs A says that squatters had already occupied the property at this point. Having reviewed 
TMWs internal notes, it looks like it first became aware that the property had been broken 
into on 22 October 2010. I say this because the notes refer to an agent visiting the property 
that day and seeing a notice in the window of the property referring to squatters rights. 
TMW says that viewings were suspended during the trespass period, and it appears from its 
internal notes that the sale of the property was put on hold from 22 October 2010, when it 
first became aware that the property had been broken into.
Im therefore satisfied that the initial feedback which TMW says it received on                     
20 October 2010 relates to viewings that took place before the property was broken into.
Following a Court hearing in November 2010, and an eviction of the property by the Police, 
TMW recovered possession of the property in December 2010.
Ive noted from the Order for possession document dated 1 December 2010 that Mrs A was 
named as the Defendant. She was ordered to give TWM possession of the property and pay 
costs totalling £225.
TMW hasnt been able to provide a detailed description of the condition of the property after 
it recovered possession of it. However, it noted the property had been used for illegal 
activity. Further, a report which appears to have been completed after the eviction states that 
it looked like the electrics had been tampered with and there were large holes in the chimney 
breast.
TMW has told us that general tidying and cleaning appears to have taken place and there 
was some damage to the locks, which were replaced. It also says there was some damage 
to a window, which was boarded up. However, it hasnt provided any evidence to show the 
electrics and the holes in the chimney breast were rectified before the property was put back 
on the market. This suggests there was some outstanding repair work required at that time.
I understand the property was put back on the market in early February 2011 with an asking 
price of £484,950. TMW says this reduction had already been agreed prior to discovery of 
the property being occupied.
TMW says it received an offer of £410,098 in March 2011, which it rejected. Following this, 
the local agent recommended a reduction in the asking price to £450,000, and TMW decided 
to reduce the asking price to £459,950.
In May 2011, the property was sold for £460,000  which was £10,000 more the 
independent surveyor had valued the property to be worth in September 2010, before the 
property was broken into.I do appreciate that Mrs A may have been hoping to achieve a higher sales price, especially 
because the property was valued at £600,000 in 2007. However, I understand the market 
conditions in 2010 were considerably less favourable than they were in 2007.
Ive also taken into consideration that TMW has written off the outstanding mortgage balance 
of £63,000, so Mrs A hasnt had to pay back the shortfall on the mortgage borrowing. 
Therefore, in order for me to conclude Mrs A has suffered any financial loss, Id need to be 
satisfied the property would have sold for over £520,000 had it not been broken into.
However, Im not persuaded the property would have sold for more than £520,000. I say this 
because the feedback from the viewings that took place prior to the property being broken 
into was that it was in poor condition. And the highest offer received prior to the break in was 
£475,000, but this was dependent on the sale of another property before it could proceed, 
which wasnt guaranteed.
Considering everything, Im not satisfied Mrs A has suffered any financial loss as a result of 
the property becoming occupied and damaged whilst in was in TMWs possession.
Has TMW acted reasonably by relying on the information contained in the valuation report?
Mrs A says the description of the property given in a valuation report isnt correct because it 
refers to the property having a front garage, which it didnt have. Ive reviewed the valuation 
report document completed by the independent surveyor in September 2010 and I cant see 
any reference to a garage. Further, it says none next to the category garage. 
Ive also taken into consideration that the independent surveyor who completed the valuation 
report was a member of the RICS. This is an independent professional body for 
qualifications and standards in land and property, amongst other things. So, Im satisfied that 
TMW instructed a reasonably competent person to complete the valuation and it hasnt 
acted unreasonably by relying on the information contained within the report.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman