DRN-2505675
The complaint
T, a charity, is unhappy that Hiscox Underwriting Limited said it would be unable to provide it
trustee indemnity insurance. It says Hiscox has discriminated against it because its a charity
with a religious connection. Its also unhappy with the way in which Hiscox handled its 
complaint. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision this complaint in January 2021 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint - part of which is copied below:
Mr C, on behalf of T, contacted Hiscox in February 2019 to enquire about taking out trustee
indemnity insurance (the insurance). He was asked  and answered  some questions and
Hiscoxs representative said they would revert to him with a quote.
Mr C didnt hear anything more. So, in June 2019, he contacted Hiscox again to enquire
about the quote. He was initially told that Hiscox would be unable to provide this sort of
insurance to T as it didnt have specialist enough policy wording to cover T. The
representative did offer to pass Mr C through to a broker to discuss obtaining a trustee
indemnity policy from a different insurer. The representative also told Mr C that Hiscox
wouldnt cover T because it was a religious charity.
Mr C was unhappy with the explanation he was given. As the underwriter wasnt available,
he then spoke with a manager who said Hiscox didnt tend to get involved with arranging
insurance policies for religious charities. But he said another reason why it declined to
provide a quote to T was because it didnt hold surplus funds; it wasnt a charity that was
growing or developing and that was the concern of the underwriter.
A complaint was then set up on behalf of T.
By way of letter dated early July 2019, Hiscox apologised for not reverting to Mr C after the
call in February 2019 and not providing him with its decision much earlier. It also apologised
for sending an email to T on the day of raising the complaint, saying it had been resolved,
when it hadnt. Hiscox repeated that it was unable to offer cover to any religious organisation
 regardless of beliefs  as this sat outside of its underwriting appetite. However, it also said
this wasnt the only reason why it didnt offer the insurance to T. Because T hadnt raised
surplus funds it said this fell outside of its underwriting criteria.
Unhappy, T raised several points in reply. And by way of letter dated early August 2019
Hiscox said it had discussed the decision not to provide a quotation with its commercial lines
underwriting manager. It accepted it was able to consider certain insurance policies 
including liability cover  for a charity with a religious connection. And that the underwriter
whod referred Ts quotation request had misunderstood its underwriting acceptance criteria
and conveyed the wrong information.
It apologised for this error and said should T wish to explore the quotation, it would be able
to consider this further - subject to receiving the latest set of financial accounts to resolve the
query raised regarding surplus. Hiscox said the reason the quotation had been originally
referred to the underwriter was due to T not making a surplus, and that a surplus wasnt
anticipated.
After T responded to that letter, Hiscox then offered to pay £100 in compensation as a
gesture of regret over this matter. T doesnt think that fairly reflects the loss its incurred. By
this stage, T also says it had taken out trustee indemnity insurance via a broker. It says not
only was the policy more expensive than the premium mooted by Hiscoxs representative
during the call in February 2019, but that it also had to pay a £75 brokerage fee.
In total T says it paid £195.74 more than it shouldve done when taking out a trustee
indemnity policy in 2019 and again in 2020, when the policy renewed. It also says that
£2,000 compensation would be a fairer reflection of the significant distress and
inconvenience it has experienced as a result of what Hiscox did wrong here.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ts complaint. Although, Hiscox had accepted it had made
errors, he felt Hiscox wouldnt have offered the policy to T. He also said £100 compensation
fairly compensated T for what Hiscox did wrong in this case.
T disagreed and raised a number of points in reply. The complaint has been passed to me to
consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold it.
Before I explain why, I acknowledge that Mr C, on behalf of T, has raised a number of points
which Ive considered in full. But Ive limited my decision to what I consider to be most
relevant in this complaint.
Hiscox accepts that it was wrong to say that it couldnt offer the insurance to T on the basis
that it sat outside its underwriting appetite because of its religious connection. It now accepts
that it was able to offer certain insurance policies  including liability cover  for a charity with
a religious connection.
However, Im currently satisfied that this wasnt the only reason why Hiscox didnt offer the
insurance to T.
Hiscox has provided us with an internal system note which reflects that the referral was
initially made to the underwriter because T hadnt generated a surplus of money. Ive also
seen a note from the underwriter in reply, dated 14 February 2019, which says theyd expect
a charity to raise sufficient funds and place any surplus back into the accounts. And they
were concerned about the concept of raising just enough.
Ive been provided with part of Hiscoxs underwriting guide, which shows that an
organisation making a net loss should be referred to an underwriter for consideration. So, I
can understand why the referral was made and I think that fair in the circumstances.
I asked T to provide its income and expenditure accounts for the year ending December
2019, which was the last set of accounts before contacting Hiscox about the insurance in
February 2019. They show that T had spent more than it had received in 2018.I also asked further questions of Hiscox in light of these accounts. It says it wouldve been
relatively comfortable with the financial security of T given the level of surplus funds
compared to the levels of losses.
On that basis, it also says had T been able to confirm its income in the following 12 months
wouldve been greater than its expenditure (i.e. it would be making a surplus) it wouldve
offered T the insurance. But it says it wouldve looked to have applied a 50% load on
premiums (excluding insurance premium tax) to cover the additional exposure to risk. As
such, the policy wouldve cost £151.20 rather than £100.80 which T was provisionally quoted
in February 2019.
However, Hiscoxs underwriter also says that had T been unable to confirm that it expected
to make a surplus in the next 12 months, it wouldnt have offered the insurance.
Mr C has confirmed to our Service that had he been asked in or around February 2019
whether he expected T to make a surplus in the next 12 months he wouldve said that he
wasnt expecting it to do so.
So, Im currently persuaded its unlikely Hiscox wouldve offered the insurance to T on that
basis.
Ive taken into account the reasons why Mr C says this was likely to be the case, particularly
given the way in which T operates. And Im also conscious that Mr C wasnt given an
opportunity to explain these points to Hiscox because it didnt come back to him shortly after
his call in February 2019. But theres nothing to indicate those factors wouldve altered
Hiscoxs position.
Ive also considered that T says Hiscox discriminated against it on religious grounds by not
offering the insurance, in breach of the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA).
Its not our role to determine whether Hiscox breached the EqA  thats the role of the courts.
However, I am required to take the EqA into account, if its relevant, amongst other things
when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
T is a charity, as opposed to an individual. As such, there isnt a settled legal position as to
whether an organisation is protected under the EqA from being discriminated against under
the EqA  and if it is, to what extent. But, in this particular case, I dont think I need to
consider whether the EqA is a relevant consideration regardless of whether a charity can be
discriminated against under the Act. Thats because, for the reasons Ive set out above and
in all the circumstances of this case, I dont think Hiscox has acted unfairly and unreasonably
by not offering the insurance to T.
If it hadnt mistakenly said that one of the reasons the insurance wasnt offered was due to
Ts religious connection, I still dont think it wouldve offered the insurance to T because T
hadnt been generating a financial surplus and wasnt expecting to do so in the following 12
months.
Hiscox has offered T £100 as a gesture of regret for the overall way in which it handled the
situation. I think thats fair and reasonable and I dont intend to direct it to do anything more.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider.Hiscox had nothing to add. On behalf of T, Mr C raised several points in reply which can be 
summarised as follows:
My provisional decision primarily focused on whether T had suffered any financial 
losses. But T is also unhappy with the way in which Hiscox handled its complaint. 
And it would like me to direct Hiscox to issue an apology for various statements it 
initially made to decline the insurance application  which T considers to be 
discriminatory on the grounds of religious belief.
My provisional decision suggests that Mr C was told of another reason during the call 
in June 2019 to explain why the insurance application had been declined. T says this 
reason wasnt raised until after Ts complaint had already been set up. T says there 
was a gap of a number of weeks between Hiscox declining to provide a quote and 
raising the underwriter's concerns in this respect. 
As Hiscox has now accepted it was wrong to decline the application because of Ts 
religious connection, T believes it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct 
Hiscox to issue an unambiguous apology for what Hiscox said when declining to 
provide a quote. T also believes Hiscox failed to admit its error until its concerns had 
been referred to our Service and this, therefore, demonstrates Hiscox failed to handle 
T's complaint fairly.
I should direct Hiscox to pay further non-financial losses, reflecting the distress and 
inconvenience caused to T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the additional comments received on behalf of T. Those further 
representations havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. I say that 
because:
As I explained in my provisional decision, our Service doesnt have the power to 
make a formal finding that T has been discriminated against, or determine whether 
Hiscox has breached the EqA by the way in which it treated T - or the statements its 
made. However, I note Hiscox has said in its letter dated 22 August 2018: I 
understand you feel the statements made by Hiscox confirming that we do not cover 
religious organisations were discriminatory and I appreciate they could be construed 
this way. I can assure you it was absolutely not our intention to discriminate in such a 
manner, neither were the statements reflective of our underwriting risk appetite. 
These statements were incorrect and should not have been made. I sincerely 
apologise for any upset this matter has caused. So, Im satisfied Hiscox has 
provided an apology to T and I think thats fair and reasonable. 
In my provisional decision, I summarised the content of the call which took place 
between Hiscoxs representatives and Mr C. I said that Hiscox explained that it 
doesnt tend to get involved with arranging insurance policies with religious charities. 
I accept that at one point during the call, Mr C was told by Hiscoxs representative 
that it wasnt specialist enough to write policies for organisations with a religious 
connection. I also accept that in follow up correspondence, dated July 2019, Hiscox 
said it couldnt offer cover to any religious organisation, regardless of its beliefs as 
this is something which sits outside our underwriting appetite'. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, Hiscox subsequently accepted this wasnt the 
case. And for reasons already set out in my provisional decision, even if Hiscox 
hadnt declined the application for this reason, its unlikely that Ts application for the 
insurance wouldve succeeded in any event.
Having listened to the call that took place between Mr C and Hiscoxs representatives 
in June 2019, Im satisfied that he was also told that the underwriter was also 
concerned about T not holding surplus funds. So, I dont agree that this reason was 
only raised a few weeks after Mr C raised a complaint on behalf of T. As Ive 
explained in my provisional decision, Hiscox has provided us with an internal system 
note which reflects that the referral was initially made to the underwriter because T 
hadnt generated a surplus of money. Ive also seen a note from the underwriter in 
reply, dated 14 February 2019, which says theyd expect a charity to raise sufficient 
funds and place any surplus back into the accounts. And they were concerned about 
the concept of raising just enough. So, Im satisfied this was an issue for Hiscox 
from the outset. 
I agree that Hiscox couldve handled Ts complaint better. It initially said the 
complaint had been resolved, shortly after it had been set up - which wasnt the case. 
Hiscox apologised for this in its final response letter dated July 2019. But I also 
accept in the final response letter Hiscox, wrongly, repeated one of the reasons why 
the application for the insurance had been declined; only later accepting that the 
underwriter had erred in saying that the insurance couldnt be offered to T because of 
its religious connections. So, I accept that had Mr C not persevered, T might not have 
known that Hiscox was able to provide the insurance to Hiscox subject to other 
underwriting considerations. But Im persuaded that Hiscoxs offer of £100 fairly 
reflects the overall distress and inconvenience experienced by T as a result of the 
way Hiscox dealt with its application for the insurance. And, also, the way in which it 
dealt with the follow up complaint, giving partially incorrect information initially to 
support its decision to decline the insurance application. 
 
For the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I dont uphold Ts 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman