DRN-1862457
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service that Union Reiseversicherung AG provided him with when 
he claimed on his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was on a cruise  the cruise missed four ports from the itinerary. The cruise provider 
credited Mr Cs on-board account with £100 as a result. Mr C claimed on his travel insurance 
policy under the optional additional cruise cover. 
URV declined the claim on the basis that Mr C had received compensation from the cruise 
provider. Mr C was unhappy with this decision and the claim was reviewed again. The claim 
was declined again, with reference to the policy terms and conditions on the basis that Mr C 
had received an on-board credit from the cruise provider. Mr C was then sent a letter offering 
him £400 which referred to URV taking a lenient approach. Unhappy, Mr C referred the 
matter back to URV. 
In their final response letter URV said that they would re-issue this letter and offered £25 as 
an apology. URV has provided a copy of a further letter which refers to the offer of £400 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mr C made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She 
thought that URV had, ultimately, fairly assessed Mr Cs claim with reference to the relevant 
policy terms. Mr C didnt agree. He says that an act of goodwill is an apology, not 
compensation. He says compensation is measurable and generally represents the value of a 
loss incurred. Mr C referred to the policy terms which, he points out, make no mention of 
acts of goodwill. He also said that URV didnt settle the claim, it was a gesture of goodwill. 
He re-iterated that acts of goodwill and compensation are two different things and asked an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions
The relevant policy terms and conditions say that URV will pay a Skipped Port Benefit of 
£100 per port up to a maximum of £1000. This benefit is per port that your cruise operator is 
unable to dock at your designated itinerated ports due to adverse weather conditions or 
timetable restrictions. Cover is only provided on a number of conditions including if: 
You have not been offered alternative transport or compensation from your tour 
operator or cruise provider
You have not had any monetary amount (including on board credit) of compensation 
offered by the ship or tour operator. 
Compensation isnt defined in the policy. 
Did URV treat Mr C fairly?
URV accepts that they didnt initially decline the claim on the correct policy term but say that 
Mr C was later referred to the correct policy term in relation to the on-board credit. They said 
that technically the decision was correct to decline the claim but, in summary, the claims 
team had now agreed to pay the full amount. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about this complaint and that he considers acts of 
goodwill to be something very different to compensation. But I dont think that the outcome 
of this complaint turns on that point. I think the key point for me to consider is whether URV 
has handled Mr Cs claim fairly in line with the relevant industry rules and guidelines. And, 
overall, Im satisfied that they have. 
The policy terms do refer to on-board credit as a form of compensation but Id also expect 
URV to take into account the specific circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, which is what they 
have now done. I think, understandably, URV is mindful that the contract of insurance 
shouldnt lead to a policyholder recovering money twice  once from the cruise provider and 
once from the insurer. 
But, each case turns on its own facts. In this case Mr C had been offered quite a low amount 
by the cruise provider, despite missing four ports on his cruise. I note that for Mr C that was 
a considerable proportion of the ports he was due to visit. So, I think it was reasonable for 
URV to consider the broader circumstances of Mr Cs case. 
Mr C has been provided with the maximum benefit available to him under the policy so I 
dont consider it central to the outcome of this complaint whether this was given as 
compensation or as a gesture of goodwill. Ultimately, URV have paid Mr C what he is due 
under the contract of insurance and, in doing so, Im satisfied they have fairly applied the 
policy terms and conditions to the circumstances of his case. 
Im aware that Mr C has concerns about URVs approach setting a wider precedent. But our 
service is an informal alternative to the courts and my role is to assess each complaint on its 
own facts. In this case, Im satisfied URV has treated Mr C fairly. 
URV has also recognised that there were some failings in the service provided and the 
clarity of their explanation for the claim. Theyve offered £25 in recognition of this which I 
think is reasonable because they didnt initially explain the reasoning for the decline of the 
claim clearly. And, as Ive already outlined, I think theyve now fairly handled the claim by 
offering Mr C the amount of money he was looking to claim under the insurance contract. 
I dont know whether URV has paid Mr C the total of £425 already. If they havent then Mr C 
will need to contact URV if he wishes to now accept this amount. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman