DRN-4487640
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc allowed unauthorised payments to be taken from his 
account. 
As Mr T is under 18 years old, the complaint is brought on his behalf by his father, Mr T2. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr T2 reported to Santander that there were payments from his account 
that he didnt recognise. He later added to this that there had also been unrecognised 
payments from his sons account which he held for him in trust (totalling £270). Santander 
accepted that these were unauthorised payments and refunded them all. 
Mr T2 complained to our service and ultimately his complaint was resolved with Santander 
paying him £250 compensation. Mr T2 has brought this further complaint on behalf of his 
son, as he thinks he should receive the same compensation. 
Santander declined to provide further redress and one of our Investigators didnt recommend 
that they needed to do more. Mr T2 disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander accept that they are responsible for an error which enabled the unauthorised 
transactions on Mr Ts account. So I wont discuss that in further detail. Here, Im satisfied 
that Santander promptly refunded the financial loss arising from the unauthorised payments. 
So all that remains to be decided is whether compensation is due as Mr T2 would like. 
The rules which govern our service mean I can only consider a complaint brought by or on 
behalf of an eligible complainant. In the circumstances of this complaint, Mr T is the eligible 
complainant. So any award for distress or inconvenience could only be made to him and 
must fairly reflect the impact upon him. 
Mr T was born in 2017 and at the time of the events that took place he was five years old. 
Firstly, if Mr T became aware of these events it would only have been because of Mr T2 
sharing this with him. And even then, Im not persuaded a child of that age would have 
sufficient understanding to have been caused material distress or inconvenience such that a 
compensation award would be appropriate. 
So whilst I can understand why Mr T2 thinks his son should also be compensated, Im not 
persuaded there is a reasonable basis for doing so as Im not persuaded Santanders error 
had such an impact on Mr T that this would be a fair and reasonable outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman