DRN-1549015
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E say that they were mis-sold regular premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) by The Chorley and District Building Society (CDBS).  
What happened
Mr and Mrs E jointly took out a mortgage with CDBS in 1997. In 2003 they applied to switch 
their mortgage rate to a discounted rate which was on offer at the time. One of the conditions 
of the discounted mortgage rate was that three insurance policies must also be purchased 
with unemployment cover being mandatory providing the customer was eligible for it. 
Mr and Mrs E took out a PPI policy covering Mr E only for unemployment. The policy 
wouldve covered their mortgage payments should Mr E be unable to work for up to 12 
months per claim.  
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. He thought they 
understood that to secure the discount mortgage rate on offer they had to take out the policy 
and if they did not want the policy they could've taken a different rate.
Mr and Mrs E disagree. They say it wasnt fair that CDBS made taking PPI compulsory. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Because Mr and Mrs E already had a mortgage with CDBS I think they understood that 
having PPI was not a condition of the mortgage. But in 2003 Mr and Mrs E wished to switch 
to a different mortgage rate. Ive seen a copy of the mortgage scheme on offer that Mr and 
Mrs E switched to. It is clear from this that to move to the mortgage rate on offer on this 
scheme that taking unemployment cover was mandatory.
Mr E has also provided me with a copy of his notes taken at the time of the switch. It is clear 
from this that he understood he would have to take unemployment cover if he wished to 
secure the discounted mortgage rate on offer.
And I can see that following this Mr E went on to complete an application form for PPI cover 
and both Mr and Mrs E signed the scheme transfer offer which outlined the condition that 
taking unemployment cover was mandatory.Mr and Mrs E say that its unfair that taking unemployment cover was mandatory to get the 
discounted mortgage rate. But its up to CDBS to decide on what terms it will offer certain 
products just as its up to Mr and Mrs E to decide whether they want to accept what is on 
offer. If they didnt want the scheme on offer they couldve chosen a different scheme or 
gone elsewhere. 
So I dont think CDBS did anything wrong here by making PPI a condition of the scheme it 
was selling. And I think Mr and Mrs E signed up to the scheme because they freely chose to 
do so wanting to secure the discounted rate on offer.
I dont think CDBS advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the policy. As I have said previously it 
was a condition of a discounted mortgage scheme on offer and it was up to Mr and Mrs E to 
decide if they wanted to take up the offer. But CDBS still needed to provide information on 
the policy in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so they could make an informed 
choice about taking out the policy.
I dont know if CDBS gave all the information as it shouldve. But I think that Mr and Mrs E 
wouldve still taken out the unemployment cover as:
Mr E was eligible for the policy and although he was self-employed the terms and 
conditions for making a successful claim on the policy didnt make it any harder to 
claim than for an employed person. And it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught 
by any of the other main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which 
couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mr E says they had savings they could use to make their 
repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for 
potentially longer up to 12 months. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs E in their 
circumstances especially considering their mortgage was a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for them.
 
Which means Mr and Mrs E arent any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by CDBS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons I've explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs E's complaint against The Chorley 
and District Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman