DRN-3049407
The complaint
Mr F complains that Capital One (Europe) plc did not refund him for a hotel stay he paid for
on his credit card.
What happened
In summary, Mr F says that the hotel he paid using his credit card did not provide the quality 
or facilities commensurate with its 4 star rating. And advertising itself as a 4-star is a 
misrepresentation.
Mr F says that after arrival, inspection of the accommodation and discussion with the owners
it became clear the hotel was not able to provide an acceptable stay for him and his wife. He
says there were several key issues which caused dissatisfaction.
Mr F said that the area was experiencing extremely high outdoor daytime temperatures
between 30-40 degrees. He said this would be unbearable for most people and dangerous
for older people such as he and his wife. But despite this:
o breakfast could only be eaten outside on a wooden terrace and not in a dedicated
indoor dining area or in the guest room
o the seated area around the swimming pool had no shade from the sun and no
umbrellas/canopies available to use
o the air conditioning in the room (the only place to escape the heat) did not work well
 the room was also without its own window
Mr F also mentioned some other things about the hotel which he said were unacceptable
including a lack of a dedicated lounger/reception and a steep flight of steps to get access to
the room. Mr F said he and his wife had difficulty using the steps.
After failing to resolve matters with the hotel Mr F says he told the owners that he would go
to look for alternative accommodation and let them know what he found but was shocked to
find they immediately claimed the balance payment and cancelled his three night booking.
Mr F complained to the booking agent he used to arrange the stay, but the hotel refused to
issue a refund. Mr F took his complaint to Capital One focused on the allegation of
misrepresentation about the advertised four star rating.
Capital One considered the matter under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(Section 75). In summary, it said that Mr Fs view that the hotel didnt live up to the 4 star
standard is open to interpretation. It did not consider a breach of contract or
misrepresentation had occurred.
Mr F complained about the outcome but Capital One maintained its position. An investigator
at this service looked into the matter. In summary, he didnt think a misrepresentation had
occurred because it was true that the hotel had a 4 star rating as awarded by a third party
tourist body.
Mr F disagreed with this. In summary, he says that if the hotel doesnt have the amenities
that would have it awarded 4 star status (as per the criteria of the tourist body) then to
advertise a four star rating is a misrepresentation.
I issued a provisional decision on the 4 August 2021. In this I said:
In order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances I consider the relevant
law. In this case, Section 75 is relevant, because depending on certain criteria it makes
Capital One responsible for breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of goods or
services Mr F purchased using his credit card.
In this case I am satisfied the criteria for a valid Section 75 claim against Capital One are in
place. And although I am not deciding the Section 75 claim, I am considering whether
Capital One acted fairly in the circumstances. In order to determine whether Capital One
acted fairly I have also had regard to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA).
After considering what happened here I propose to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
misrepresentation
I know Mr F has focused his claim on misrepresentation. I will deal with this briefly as I
consider it less relevant in light of my findings in relation to breach of contract.
For a finding of misrepresentation there needs to be a false statement of fact made by the
supplier (in this case the hotel) which caused Mr F to make a decision he would not
otherwise have made. In this case the relevant statement of fact by the hotel is that it has a
four star rating (as decided by a third party tourist agency).
There is apparently no dispute that the hotel was awarded a four star rating by a third party
tourist agency. From what I understand the hotel is reviewed every five years, and nothing
indicates that it has had the rating withdrawn prematurely (and I imagine there are
mechanisms for this should there be a sufficient body of complaints to the tourist body) so to 
all intents and purposes it was a four star hotel at the time of booking and there has not been 
a misrepresentation in advertising as such.
Mr F has indicated that because he considers the hotel no longer met the criteria of a four
star (or at least it didnt during his stay) that advertising four stars is a misrepresentation. To
me such an interpretation suggests the display of a four star rating represents the hotels
ongoing assessment of the validity of said rating. I dont think this is right. Displaying the four
stars is a factual statement of an award by the tourist body. And like ratings of this kind it is
generally understood that it will be reviewed periodically by the awarding body.
Although I dont consider there to have been a misrepresentation by the hotel in respect of
the star rating this does not mean Mr F has no recourse in respect of his individual
experience at the venue. I have considered this in respect of the law relating to breach of
contract.breach of contract
The CRA implies a term into a consumer contract such as this one that the service will be
provided with reasonable care and skill. This standard isnt defined exactly  but is
generally held to mean that a service is carried out according to standards expected in that
industry/sector taking into account relevant factors such as the price paid for the service. I
have also noted the relevant tourist body guidance as an example of what is considered to
be good practice. In considering if the hotel acted with reasonable care and skill I have also
factored in the elevated expectations brought by its four star rating and the not inexpensive
per night rate.
Mr F has listed several things he was unhappy with. But has focused on the failings in
respect of cooling and shade (in light of the extremely high temperatures in the region) which
he considered a serious health risk because of our advanced years and because of his
wifes medical condition.
What Mr F has said on the matter is both credible and consistent. I think Mr F had some
particularly valid concerns in respect the heat (I have checked the weather at the time and
what Mr F says appears to be correct) and the access to the room. I think it is fair to say that
a hotel acting with reasonable care and skill would have to take these concerns seriously
and act on them.
Mr F said breakfast was served inside but eaten outside. From what I have seen online this
does appear to be the case. Mr F has made a particular point of saying it was unacceptable
there was no indoor room where he and his wife could take breakfast. I think it was
reasonable for Mr F to have concerns about the heat  which appeared to be as high as 30
degrees in the morning. I dont see why he and his wife were not allowed to sit inside to eat if
that would have been more comfortable. Particularly as the tourist agency which awarded
the star rating appear to require this type of facility as part of its criteria for an award.
Mr F said the guest room was windowless and below ground level with poorly functioning air
conditioning. Mr F had booked a room with air conditioning as a feature - so efficient and
effective cooling would appear to be essential in these circumstances. I expect any problems
would have to be addressed by an engineer of some-kind or a room change. I appreciate the
hotel is small with few rooms so a room change might not have been possible  but that is
not Mr Fs fault and does not in my view lessen the hotels responsibility as to the level of
reasonable care and skill that would be expected of it.
I have seen pictures of the seated pool area online and pictures Mr F has sent. While it
appears the trees in a small area provide shade at a certain time of day there dont appear to
be any canopies/umbrellas for ongoing protection from the sun. Overall the pool area looks
particularly exposed and I think it would have been reasonable to accommodate some form
of shade for Mr F and his wife in the circumstances.
I also note Mr Fs comments in respect of what he says were steep stone steps down to the
room. This appears to be a significant issue particularly if there was no handrail. I appreciate
the hotel is somewhat rustic looking and the steps are probably an original feature 
however, I think a hotel acting with reasonable care and skill would not allocate a room with
this type of access without being sure the customers were aware and had accepted this.
From the evidence I have I am not persuaded the hotel acted to address these issues in a
satisfactory way. Of course, my conclusions are relying primarily on what Mr F has to say
about what happened, but I note that:Mr F has been credible, detailed and consistent in his submissions - I also note that 
when he subsequently spoke to Capital One about the matter he did so soon after 
the experience and the telephone notes of what he said at the time are consistent 
with what he has maintained and told this service about his stay;
despite only being booked in for three nights Mr F felt strongly enough about the 
issues and the unsatisfactory response of the owners to choose to leave the hotel 
and find somewhere else to stay. This is not usually a decision taken lightly and it 
indicates to me there were likely some fundamental failings which the hotel had not 
responded to in a satisfactory manner; and
the hotel does not appear to have provided a meaningful response of any kind except 
an apparent refusal to refund the money. Which adds weight to what Mr F has said.
Overall, it seems it is more likely than not the hotel failed to act with reasonable care and
skill. Therefore, breaching the term implied by the CRA in the supply contract.
I also note that although Mr F has not said this directly he appeared to be under the
impression the hotel had agreed (as it couldnt resolve his concerns) that he could find
alternative accommodation without incurring a charge for the room. Mr F describes his shock
that the hotel then immediately took the balance of the payment. The phone notes from
Capital One show that he immediately called it from abroad to register the dispute  showing
his strength of feeling about it at the time.
So in addition to breach of an implied term, there is also an argument here to say the hotel
varied the contract it had with Mr F only not to honour this, breaking an express term of the
agreement it had with him.
In conclusion, I think it is more likely than not that the hotel breached its contract with Mr F.
So with Section 75 in mind I consider it fair and reasonable that Capital One should have
offered Mr F a remedy. In order to decide what sort of remedy Capital One should have
offered I have considered the individual circumstances of this case along with what is said in
the CRA. In this case the remedy of repeat performance of the contract is not possible so I
think it is fair and reasonable that Mr F get a refund. And because he didnt use the service
at all I think it is fair and reasonable he gets a full refund (and isnt responsible for additional
charges on the transaction).
I directed a re-working of the credit card along with 8% simple yearly interest on any 
resulting refund and asked both parties for their response.
Mr F had nothing further to add but Capital One did. In summary, it said:
it is clear from images on the hotel listing there would be limited shade in communal 
areas like the pool  and no parasols are shown. The customer knew this yet still 
booked. Also his room came with a patio including an outdoor shaded area;
there is no evidence from Mr F or the hotel that it wasnt possible to eat indoors for 
breakfast;
the hotel listing shows the room the customer booked doesnt have windows and 
there is no evidence the air conditioning was not working as well as it should. The 
point is subjective, and the customer is unlikely to have sufficiently tested the 
system/given it sufficient time to cool; 
in relation to the stone steps  although it isnt outlined in the listing the customer was 
responsible for ensuring the room he booked was accessible if this was required; and
the complaint relies on the testimony of the customer and there is no evidence to 
back this up  the burden of proof lies with him to evidence the claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Capital One for its response to my provisional decision. However, it has not changed 
my view on what is fair and reasonable here. I will explain why.
Capital One said I am relying on what Mr F had to say about matters, such as not being 
allowed to eat indoors, or about the air conditioning not working properly. Overall, I consider 
that Mr F has done enough to evidence his claim. I have already dealt with the reason for 
this in my provisional decision. Rather than repeat what I have said there I will broadly 
summarise as follows:
Mr F has provided compelling testimony about the issues he encountered;
Mr F left the hotel and did not stay indicating his strength of feeling and showing 
there were likely to be fundamental failings which could not be remedied; and
the hotel has not provided a credible or specific response to the allegations Mr F has 
made  which means I am placing more weight on what he says.
So, while it is possible the air conditioning in the room was working sufficiently, I consider 
this to be speculative in absence of any compelling evidence from the hotel. In this particular 
case I consider it more likely than not what Mr F says about the air conditioning to be 
accurate. While, for reasons already given I also consider it more likely than not Mr F was 
told he and his wife could only take breakfast in the covered outdoor area.
I recognise there is a reliance on Mr Fs testimony as opposed to other evidence. But I dont 
think that is unreasonable in the specific circumstances here and particularly when the 
matters Mr F is claiming are somewhat difficult to evidence in any other way (for example 
poorly functioning air conditioning or being told there was no suitable indoor area to take 
breakfast for relief from the extreme outdoor heat).
I have considered what Capital One has said about the hotel listing and it doesnt change my 
mind either. I will explain why.
Even if the room was clearly windowless in the listing (and I am not convinced it was) I dont 
think Mr F is complaining about that fact alone - the point is that there were no windows  
which underlines just how essential effective air conditioning would be for cooling in high 
temperatures. 
Furthermore, even if the listing of the pool did not show this I do not think it unreasonable to 
expect that some kind of shade/parasol would have been available in the particular 
circumstances. And even if Mr Fs room had its own outdoor shaded area I dont think it 
unreasonable that he and his wife would have wanted to use the pool area (a significant part 
of the hotel). So I dont think this point makes any difference to the reasonable expectations 
on the supplier here.Finally, I am not entirely convinced that allocating a room with access via steep stone steps 
(apparently with no handrail) would be acceptable without prior agreement even if a 
customer doesnt specify an accessible room (I dont think Mr F is indicating that ordinary 
stairs would have been a problem).  However, even if I conceded this point, overall there is 
enough for me to be satisfied that the hotel didnt do enough in respect of the issues relating 
to the extremely high temperatures. 
For the reasons given here, and in my provisional decision (copied above) I think it is more 
likely than not that the hotel breached its contract with Mr F. So with Section 75 in mind I 
consider it fair and reasonable that Capital One should have offered Mr F a remedy.
Putting things right
I still consider a full refund to be a reasonable remedy for the reasons I have already given in 
my provisional decision (as copied above).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) plc to re-work Mr Fs credit card as if
the payments for the hotel totalling £423.20 had never been made, refunding any related
interest charges and foreign transaction fees. If the re-working results in a credit balance it
should refund this to Mr F with 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the date it first
declined his Section 75 claim to the date of settlement.
If Capital One deduct tax from the interest part of my award it should provide Mr F with a 
certificate of tax deduction so that he may claim a refund from HMRC (if appropriate). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman