DRN-3213789
The complaint
Miss H complains about a guarantor loan provided to her by TFS Loans Limited, (TFS), 
which she says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this Service on Miss Hs 
behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions 
being taken by Miss H.
  
What happened
TFS provided Miss H with a loan of £5,000 on 30 January 2017. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Miss H failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 26.9%, (48.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 60 monthly 
repayments of £195.46. If Miss H made each repayment when it was due, shed pay 
£11,727.60 in total. The loan was to be used partly for a holiday and partly for furniture. 
Miss H said that TFS failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. Had any
effective assessment been carried out, TFS would not have provided a loan to her.
In its final response letter, TFS concluded that it wasnt upholding Miss Hs complaint. Its 
letter set out details of the information provided to it by Miss H. TFS had also seen Miss Hs 
payslip and it carried out a credit check. The lender said its assessment showed Miss H had 
a monthly disposable income of £202.39 after everything (including its loan repayment) was 
taken into consideration, which deemed the loan to be affordable for Miss H. TFS said that 
overall the information obtained, both from Miss H and on its credit search (other than a late 
payment on a mail order account), showed that Miss H had no current problems managing 
credit. So TFS didnt believe it was reasonable or proportionate to also request evidence of 
Miss Hs expenditure, given that the remaining disposable income calculated was consistent 
with the information showing on her credit file. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He said, in 
summary, that what Miss H had told TFS about her expenditure ought to have warranted 
further verification and further questioning as to why, someone who had spent so little on 
their basic monthly essential expenditure and basic quality of living, would have had £13,077 
outstanding on her credit accounts. He didnt think the checks TFS carried out were 
proportionate. He believed that if TFS had completed a further analysis of the information 
which it obtained from Miss H prior to the approval of this loan, it would have
concluded that there was a significant risk that she would be unable to afford the
repayments on this loan over the life of the agreement.
TFS disagreed. It said, in summary, that Miss Hs credit file showed all active credit being 
maintained accordingly, and there was one defaulted account, on which the balance had 
reduced showing Miss H had made payments towards it. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss H 
and to TFS on 3 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when TFS lent to Miss H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not 
a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, TFS had to think about whether Miss H could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss H. So even in this 
case where Miss H had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments if she couldnt, this 
didnt absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether Miss H could meet her repayments 
without undue difficulty.
In general, Id thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
TFS had gathered some information from Miss H about her income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check and seen Miss Hs December 2016 
payslip. Id noted that following TFSs credit check, it had said that Miss H had been 
approved to borrow £5,000 rather than the amount of £7,500 she had originally requested. 
So, I could see that TFS must have had some concerns about Miss Hs financial situation 
before providing her with the loan. 
Miss H said that her monthly net income was £1,394. She lived with her parents and paid 
rent of £120. She was single with no dependents. TFS calculated she had a monthly 
disposable income of £202.39 after repayment of its loan payment.Miss H provided a payslip to TFS. This showed a net pay of around £1,395, although TFS 
calculated that Miss H received an average monthly income of £1,610.49. I disagreed with 
TFSs calculation. Id noted that the payslip was based on a four week period. Id calculated 
that Miss H had a monthly equivalent net income of £1,511.38 based on her December 2016 
payslip. Id thought it would have been more appropriate here for TFS to use the monthly 
equivalent of the net pay shown on Miss Hs December 2016 payslip. Some of her previous 
payslips might have included items such as overtime which might not have been available 
every month. Using the monthly equivalent income for December 2016, Miss H would be left 
with a monthly disposable income of around £103.28 after repaying the loan, which was 
around half the amount calculated by TFS. 
Using the monthly equivalent income for December 2016, Miss H would be left with a 
monthly disposable income of around £103.28 after repaying the loan. 
But, TFS was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Id noted that TFS had asked Miss H for information about her living costs. Shed said that 
her monthly living costs (apart from rent) were £75 including clothing costs of £30. But Id 
thought that TFS might have queried these in view of the large amount of mail order 
accounts shown on TFSs credit checks with balances ranging from £52 to £1,519 and a 
credit card balance of £2,126. I was concerned that TFS appeared to have relied on        
Miss Hs statement of her expenditure without verifying it. CONC 5.3.1(4) said: 
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1): 
(a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement; 
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer; 
So, Id thought it would have been proportionate for TFS to have verified Miss Hs actual 
expenditure to obtain a more complete picture of her financial situation. I couldnt see that it 
did this. 
Id also reviewed TFSs credit report. There was a defaulted account from 2011. But Miss H 
had only repaid £522 of the default balance of £1,649 since then. Id noted there was also 
one mail order account on which Miss H had missed her last payment and another mail 
order account which was £19 over its credit limit of £1,500. Miss H was also near the credit 
limit of £2,150 on her credit card and near the overdraft limit of £3,200 on one of her current 
accounts. Her other current account was around £2,200 overdrawn. More worryingly, the 
credit report also showed a relatively recent need for a large amount of credit. Miss H had 
taken out three high cost credit loans with balances totalling over £26,000 in around the  
seven months prior to the loan application which were all still outstanding. Id noted Miss H 
told TFS that two of these loans were taken out on behalf of her parents. Id thought TFS 
was correct to include the monthly repayments for these two loans in its affordability 
calculations. But the most recent loan for £7,500 appeared to have been for Miss H and 
taken out around just two months before her loan application to TFS. TFS would also be aware that not all lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies 
and a lenders credit check wouldnt always be up to date. So, it was likely to know that   
Miss H could have had other credit which wasnt shown on TFSs credit report.
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Altogether I thought Miss Hs 
relatively recent need for a high amount of credit, the recent missed payment, and the 
accounts over or near their respective credit limits that TFS would have likely seen on its 
checks should have put the lender on notice that Miss Hs finances were under pressure. I 
thought it would have been reasonable for TFS to have concluded from its credit checks that 
despite the disposable income it had calculated, Miss H was struggling to manage her 
money and that more likely than not, she wouldnt be able be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
Id noted that TFS had calculated Miss Hs monthly credit commitments (including its loan 
repayment) to total around £1,213. So, her total monthly credit commitments were around 
80% of the monthly equivalent income Id calculated above. Id thought that TFS ought to 
have been concerned about Miss Hs significant amount of credit commitments and that they 
were unlikely to be sustainable over 60 months. 
Overall, I was satisfied that the information available to TFS demonstrated that Miss H 
wasnt in a position to take on any more debt and so TFSs decision to arrange the loan 
wasnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Agreeing further credit for Miss H was only 
likely to add to her financial difficulties. So, Id said that I wasnt going to investigate what 
further checks might have shown in view of what Id said above.
But Id thought it worth mentioning that Id reviewed the credit report Miss H had provided to 
this Service. I could see that this showed that Miss H had a significantly larger amount of 
existing credit at the time of her loan application than that shown in TFSs credit checks. I 
could see shed received another high cost credit loan in May 2016 with a balance of around 
£9,400. The credit report showed this was payable by regular monthly payment amounts of 
around £195. If TFS had made better checks and calculated Miss Hs total monthly credit 
repayments to include this loan repayment, it would likely have seen that Miss H didnt have 
enough disposable income to sustainably repay TFSs loan (using its income calculation) 
and not enough income to repay TFSs loan using the monthly equivalent income Id 
calculated. In addition, I could see that two of Miss Hs mail order accounts were shown to 
be in early arrears in January 2017 and both her current account overdrafts were at their 
respective limits in the same month. All this suggested that the loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainable. Id noted that this was indeed the case as the account was in arrears within 
three months of being taken out and TFS defaulted the loan in July 2017. 
So, for the reasons set out above I didnt think TFS had acted fairly when it provided the loan 
to Miss H and subject to any further representations by Miss H or TFS, I intended to say that 
Miss Hs complaint should be upheld, and that TFS should put things right as follows: 
Putting things right  what TFS needs to do 
Whilst I note that the loan was defaulted, I can also see that Miss Hs credit report shows the 
account as satisfied in September 2019. So, to settle Miss Hs complaint, TFS should do the 
following:-
1. Add up the total amount of money Miss H received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss H made should be deducted from this amount;2. If this results in Miss H having paid more than she received, then any
           overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the
           date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement);* and
      3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation to the   
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give    
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Miss H responded to my provisional decision by referring to other matters which werent 
relevant to this particular complaint.
TFS responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
With regard to the matters raised by Miss H in response to my provisional decision, I would 
suggest that these be raised as new complaints.
Otherwise, given that Miss H and TFS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and require TFS to take the steps set out above under the heading 
Putting things right - what TFS needs to do.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order TFS Loans Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what TFS needs to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman