DRN-3274627
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his classic car insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr W had an agreed value policy with Ageas for his classic car. In November 2019 he was 
involved in an incident when he drove through water which caused difficulties with his car 
which wouldnt start. So, he made a claim under his policy.
Ageas looked into things for him and agreed there was a claim under the policy as the 
engine had been damaged due to water ingress. Ageas initially thought the car was a write 
off before going on to get his car repaired. But when it looked to do this it realised it didnt 
have any suitable repairers available and it asked Mr W if he knew of any, but he didnt.
However, he looked online and his car was taken to the repairer he found. But Ageas didnt 
advise him the repairer would be treated as his own and that it wouldnt take any 
responsibility for the repairs.
Mr Ws car was repaired by the repairer he had found online. However, he later had 
problems with the repair and tried to speak to the repairing garage and then Ageas about 
this. Ageas now highlighted that it wouldnt cover any failure of the repairs or further damage 
caused by the repairing garage as it didnt appoint them. As Mr W wasnt happy about this 
he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W and upheld his complaint. He highlighted that 
Ageas didnt tell Mr W it wouldnt cover any problems as it wasnt its repairer; that it paid the 
repairing garage direct for the original repairs; and that it initially thought the car was a write 
off. And so, he thought it should pay Mr W the agreed value of his car in order to put things 
right for Mr W or it should look to repair his car now. And it should pay him £500 by way of 
compensation.
Both parties didnt agree, although Ageas did initially agree to most of the investigators 
position. Mr W felt he should be paid about £10,000 by way of compensation. And Ageas felt 
the repairing garages insurer (which had also been involved) should deal with any 
subsequent claim as it felt the garage was responsible for the subsequent problems. So, the 
matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
This case isnt easy to decide and a lot has happened since the time of claim. But I think the 
key issue is whether Ageas is responsible for the rectification repairs and all of the claim 
following the second breakdown. And, if it is, how things should be put right now.
The claim has been complicated by the repairing garages own insurers involvement. But, as 
our investigator explained, I think this is a secondary issue. I say this as Im satisfied that 
Ageas should have taken responsibility for the rectification work in the first instance. I know it 
suggests now that some of the subsequent repairs may not be related to the original claim 
but as it didnt take control of this I cant be sure as the evidence isnt conclusive. And it is of 
note that the repairers insurer appears to accept the repair wasnt done correctly in the first 
instance.
Ageas feels the repairing garage was chosen by Mr W, but I dont think the evidence 
supports that position. It looked at the car initially and its engineer suggested the car was a 
write off which shows the level of damage caused in the first instance including to the engine 
which had seized and there was a suggestion that a new engine was required. It went on to 
say the car could be repaired but that it didnt have a suitable repairer. I know it feels Mr W 
chose the repairer, but I dont think he did. The repairer wasnt known to Mr W and he 
certainly wasnt pushing for this, he just tried to identify a garage that might be able to help in 
order to get his claim moving. And he certainly wasnt made aware that Ageas wouldnt take 
any responsibility for the repairer or the repair.
I think Ageas would have had to clearly explain to Mr W that he was choosing the repairer 
and the potential consequences of this if it wanted to rely on this. But it didnt and I cant be 
satisfied that Ageas gave Mr W this information. And I think if Mr W was made aware of this 
he would have simply pushed the repair back to Ageas and ask it to find a suitable repairer. 
Indeed, Ageas has acknowledged that it should have done more to find a suitable repairer of 
its own. So, I think Ageas is responsible for the first repairs of Mr Ws car and any 
rectification work that was required.
As such Ageas shouldve ensured Mr Ws car was fully checked, and any rectification work 
was undertaken. I know it feels its possible that some of the further work was due to a 
mechanical failure but as it didnt consider the further problems in sufficient detail I cant be 
sure about this. And given the level of damage that was caused by the water ingress 
originally, the fact that a new engine was originally suggested, and the workmanship was 
questionable it seems likely, on balance, that the rectification work was linked to the original 
claim.
I know the garages insurer has been involved and paid Mr W £2,000 towards the claim. But 
as our investigator has explained that amount should be taken off the total loss claim, and 
Ageas can look to take this up with the repairing garage and its insurer if it wishes. It 
certainly isnt fair for Mr W to have to pursue this given that Im satisfied Ageas should have 
considered all this upon the rectification problems coming to light.
Turning to the level of compensation that should be paid I dont think any amount of 
compensation would satisfy Mr W as he has clearly been through a difficult time. I know Mr 
W feels his father should be paid some compensation for allowing Mr W to use his car. But I can only compensate Mr W as this is his claim and cant consider his fathers position and 
inconvenience as he isnt party to the claim.
However, I do feel Mr W has been subjected to a lot of stress and inconvenience here. Mr W 
feels the money he has been paid by the garages insurer shouldnt be taken into account. 
But as it has been paid in relation to this claim I think itss fair that it should be brought in and 
it wouldnt be fair for Mr W to receive more than the agreed value of his car. Mr W had an 
agreed value policy so I think it is only fair that Ageas should pay him this (£10,500) less the 
£2,000 Mr W received from his garages insurer. I know Ageas has also questioned the 
valuation of Mr Ws car now following the garages insurers consideration of the claim. But I 
think it should have done this far earlier (when Mr W took out the policy or during the time it 
inspected his car after the initial claim) as opposed to now. So I think it is only fair to use the 
agreed value from the time the policy was taken out.
I know Mr W has raised a number of further points that he feels he should be compensated 
for, including loss of use, which amounts to about £10,000. But he hasnt provided any 
evidence of any costs incurred and this service expects consumers to mitigate their position. 
So, I would have expected Mr W to buy his run around vehicle earlier. And he would always 
have incurred running costs with this vehicle as he would if he had his car and so I wont be 
asking Ageas to pay anything further here.
However, I agree that Mr W should be paid £500 in compensation to cover the clear stress 
and inconvenience all this has caused him  including the general delay and his loss of use. 
I think this feels fair in the circumstances especially as Mr W has also had his car returned 
and the car has a value (salvage) which Mr W hasnt been asked to pay.
As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Ageas to pay Mr W £8,500 which is equal to the total loss figure of his car (less 
the £2,000 already paid by the garages insurer) plus 8% simple interest for the time he has 
been without the money. And £500 compensation for the clear inconvenience caused and 
Mr W should be allowed to keep the salvage which he can repair or sell.
Replies and developments
Ageas didnt respond to my provisional decision while Mr W provided a detailed response. In 
the main Mr W repeated the arguments he had already put forward. Ultimately, he said he 
accepted the position outlined but thought he should get £10,500 and that the compensation 
should be increased to £1,000. He thought the level of compensation suggested (£500) 
wasnt enough to cover the stress and inconvenience caused including to his father. 
Mr W also said that he now thought the policy was mis-sold as Ageas wasnt able to place 
his vehicle with an appropriate repairer. And because it wasnt taking responsibility for the 
repairers actions now. He questioned why there wasnt any retribution for Ageas about this? 
And he also questioned why the £2,000 was being brought into the settlement suggested 
when this wasnt anything to do with Ageas and he negotiated this separately with the 
garages insurer. Mr W said Ageas could have done this themselves but chose not to. 
Mr W also highlighted that he was entitled to the salvage as part of the policy and felt the 
salvage was now worth less as the car had been sat. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld for the reasons outlined 
in my provisional decision. I dont propose to go over the complaint in detail again as, in the 
main, Ive already considered the issues Mr W has raised as part of my provisional decision. 
But I will comment for completeness and about any fresh points made.
Although I can understand why Mr W wants more compensation I think the position outlined 
is fair. As Ive said above Mr W doesnt have any evidence of the costs he incurred and as 
his father isnt party to the claim I cant award any compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience his father was caused. I know this will be disappointing to Mr W but it is his 
policy, not his fathers. 
So, although I know Mr W would like £1,000 by way of compensation I think £500 is fair. I 
take Mr Ws point that he is entitled to the salvage as part of his policy and I havent brought 
this into the compensation payment but just made the point generally. And I note Mr W feels 
the salvage has deteriorated further, and that is possible, but I still think the position outlined 
feels fair.
I know Mr W feels he should get the full settlement plus the £2,000 he negotiated separately 
with the garages insurer. But that would put him in a better position and leave him in profit in 
relation to the total cost paid for his car which I dont think would be fair. 
Finally, turning to the new point Mr W raises that he feels the policy was mis-sold and Ageas 
hasnt faced any retribution about this. It isnt this services role to punish businesses but to 
try and put things right for consumers in a fair and reasonable way. And any complaint about 
the policy being mis-sold would have to be looked at separately, as a new complaint, as this 
wasnt looked at as part of this complaint. However, I will highlight that Ageas has 
acknowledged it should have done more to get one of its own repairers to look at Mr Ws car 
in the first instance, so I think Mr Ws point here falls away. But Ill leave this to Mr W if he 
wants to advance this as a new complaint separately now.
Given all of this, I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Ageas to pay Mr W £8,500 which is equal to the total loss 
figure of his car (less the £2,000 already paid by the garages insurer) plus 8% simple 
interest for the time he has been without the money. And £500 compensation for the clear 
inconvenience caused and Mr W should be allowed to keep the salvage which he can repair 
or sell.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £8,500 plus 8% simple interest from the date of the second 
rectification repair to the date of settlement and £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman