DRN-3591612
The complaint
Ms F has complained that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA wont refund transactions she 
says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In 2020, Ms F lived with her partner at the time. She explained that he subjected her to 
financial abuse. He took out debts in her name and used existing accounts without her 
permission. He registered his thumb print on Ms Fs phone without her consent, gained 
access to her accounts, and changed her passwords. He manipulated Ms F into believing 
that she was going crazy, and that she was the victim of a third party identity thief.
Eventually, Ms F discovered what had been happening. She reported her now ex-partner to 
the police, reported the fraud to the various financial businesses hed used, and took out 
protective registration at CIFAS, the national fraud prevention agency.
Ms F explained that over several months, her ex-partner had been using her PayPal account 
without her permission, spending thousands of pounds using a mixture of PayPal Credit and 
non-Credit transactions.
The ex-partner confessed to the police and was charged with multiple counts of theft and 
fraud. However, he passed away just before his court date. Various financial businesses 
accepted Ms F had been the victim of fraud.
PayPal, however, held Ms F liable for the payments in dispute. It automatically declined her 
claim because shed said a partner had carried out the transactions. It noted the disputed 
payments came from the same IP address she normally used, and that Ms F had made 
payments to her ex-partner before the fraud. The disputed payments had needed Ms Fs 
password, and PayPal concluded that she must have either revealed her password to her 
ex-partner or not taken great enough care to keep her account safe.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. PayPal didnt 
agree, though it did not provide any further reasons. The complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Ms F and PayPal a provisional decision on 9 June 2022, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
As I understand, the payments in dispute used Ms Fs password. But this is not enough, on 
its own, for PayPal to hold Ms F liable  it also needs to be able to evidence that Ms F 
consented to the transactions, or that she failed to keep her account safe either intentionally 
or through acting with gross negligence. Otherwise, PayPal has to refund the transactions.
As things stand, PayPal does not appear to have any significant evidence which actually 
substantiates that Ms F consented to these payments or acted with gross negligence.
PayPal pointed out that the disputed payments used Ms Fs normal IP address. But thats 
unsurprising given that her ex-partner lived with her at the time. Similarly, it seems rather 
unsurprising that Ms F made a few genuine payments to a partner that she lived with. Thats 
a normal thing to do, and does not negate the prospect of unauthorised payments, not least 
as her prior payments were not of the same amounts or frequency as the disputed ones.
PayPal says Ms F must have given her password to the ex-partner or otherwise failed to 
keep her account safe. But it is not clear what, if anything, PayPal has based this on. Ms F 
explained in detail just how controlling her ex-partner was. For example, he registered his 
thumb print on her phone behind her back when she left it unlocked once, he sometimes 
took her phone away, and he often would not allow her to be alone even to shop. And her 
ex-partner lived with her at the time. So it is both plausible and likely that he wouldve been 
able to observe Ms F entering her password at some point and learned it without her 
permission. Or he couldve accessed her email using her phone and then used that to 
recover her password without consent. Indeed, I can see that Ms Fs PayPal password was 
reset or changed back and forth often during the period of disputed transactions. PayPal 
appears to have simply assumed that Ms F either consented to the payments or was 
negligent with her account security. And that would have been a most unreasonable 
approach to take, especially in a sensitive case like this.
The police explained that the ex-partner admitted to everything in an interview in 2020, 
including stealing from Ms F and leading her to believe her identity was being cloned. Ms F 
has also provided written confessions, where the ex-partner apologised and said hed plead 
guilty. And following a detailed investigation, the CPS charged him for multiple counts of 
theft and fraud, which seems to have included these PayPal payments.
Ms Fs testimony has been consistent, candid, and credible, and I cannot see any good 
reason to disbelieve her. Her actions only support her side of the story too, such as in 
promptly reporting this to the police, taking it all the way to the CPS, seeking protection from 
CIFAS, having treatment for the acute distress she was caused, and so on.
The ex-partner clearly benefitted from the disputed payments. A very large proportion was 
for payments made directly to accounts of his. Others were for purchases such as mens 
clothing.
The account activity also seems indicative of fraud. It looks like the ex-partner drained 
Ms Fs funds using various different payment methods of hers, taking large sums of money 
in quick succession. And as I mentioned before, it looks like the password was frequently 
changed or reset, and it seems Ms F had trouble logging in herself.
Lastly, I can see that for other financial businesses involved, they investigated things and 
concluded that Ms F had indeed been the victim of fraud.
So taking everything into account, I am currently satisfied that Ms F did not consent to the 
payments in dispute.Turning to the issue of negligence, I will first note that some of the disputed payments were 
made using a credit facility, or they involved non-excepted distance contracts. So for those 
payments, PayPal could not hold Ms F liable on the basis of negligence in any case.
For the remaining payments, Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Ms F deliberately 
failed to keep her account safe or was negligent in any way, let alone grossly so. There were 
clear and plausible points of compromise for her account password which did not involve any 
negligence on her part. And having an abusive partner does not constitute negligence in and 
of itself. Again, it seems that PayPal simply assumed that Ms F must have been negligent.
I find PayPals conduct here to have been most disappointing. It does not seem to have 
taken this issue sufficiently seriously, despite its highly sensitive nature and the severe 
impact it had for Ms F. It doesnt look like PayPal investigated things properly, and its 
conclusions appear to be based on unfounded assumptions. It has added considerable 
distress and upset in what was already an extremely stressful situation for Ms F. And it has 
added considerable delay to this issue finally being sorted out. That needs to be put right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
7 July 2022. Ms F said she was happy with the decision. PayPal didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to:
refund the disputed transactions, less any that have already been refunded;
for payments made using PayPal Credit: refund any interest or fees that were 
charged. Then from the point the credit is repaid, pay 8% simple interest on each 
repayment from the date of the repayment until the date of the refund;
for all other payments: pay simple interest to Ms F on those transactions, at the rate 
of 8% simple a year, payable from the date they were made until the date theyre 
returned;
remove any negative markers PayPal may have added to Ms Fs credit file since this 
incident began; and-
pay Ms F £650 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PayPal to take off tax from this simple interest. PayPal must give 
Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Ms Fs complaint, and direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to put things right in 
the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman