DRN-2721105
The complaint
Ms B complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) closed her credit card accounts without notice 
or reason. 
What happened
Ms B says she is a long- standing customer of HSBC and in July 2019 received an email 
from them asking if she still wanted her credit card account. Ms B says she contacted HSBC 
for a replacement card to be issued on this credit card account, but it never arrived, instead 
both this credit card account was closed and a few weeks later her second credit account 
was also closed without any notification to her. Ms B says she has lost access to her 
personal credit facility and HSBC should place her back to the position she was before, with 
the original credit card accounts she held, under the same terms and conditions. Ms B says 
she shouldnt need to go to the trouble and expense of re-applying for the credit cards again, 
as it wasnt her fault HSBC closed them. 
HSBC says they made a mistake when emailing Ms B about whether she still required her 
credit card account, as this account had been closed on their records. HSBC says under 
their terms and conditions of the credit card account they did not need to give notification to 
close her credit card accounts with them. HSBC says they have recredited her bank account 
with the small creditor balances held on the credit card accounts and offered £25 by way of 
an apology for the inconvenience caused to her.
Ms B wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and partly upheld Ms Bs complaint. 
The investigator felt HSBC hadnt done anything wrong when closing her credit card 
accounts as this was in line with its terms and conditions. The investigator did feel HSBC 
could have done more to notify  Ms B when they closed her credit card accounts and 
instructed HSBC to pay Ms B £100 for the inconvenience it has caused her.  
Ms B wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Ms B to discover her long standing credit card 
accounts had been closed by HSBC without her being informed of this. I can also see this 
would have been of further frustration for Ms B, given she had contacted HSBC to send her 
a replacement credit card on one of those accounts. When looking at this complaint I have 
considered if HSBC acted unfairly when closing Ms Bs credit card accounts and if they 
could have done more to have informed her of this. 
Ms B has made the point that HSBC shouldnt be able to close her credit card accounts and 
leave her without access to the credit facilities these cards offered her. Ms B has pointed out 
she contacted HSBC to reissue a credit card on one of those accounts and they had agreed 
to do this. Instead HSBC closed both her credit card accounts without notification and as a 
result Ms B feels HSBC must now put her back to the position she was before the credit card 
accounts were closed. Ms B says she shouldnt have to go to the trouble and expense of 
reapplying for a new credit card as HSBC shouldnt have closed the credit card accounts in 
the first place. 
The first thing to say here is HSBC may under the term and conditions of the credit card 
agreement, close a credit card account like Ms Bs, without reason, in the same way she 
can, although we would expect them to provide reasonable notice to do so. 
From the information made available to this service, what happened here was both of Ms Bs 
credit cards hadnt been used for a number of years leading up to the email she received in 
July 2019 in which it asked if she still required one of the credit card accounts. I am satisfied 
that this was a reasonable course of action for HSBC to take in the circumstances, given 
that, I cant say that Ms B was reliant on the credit facilities it afforded as she hadnt made 
use of the card for a number of years prior to her complaint. Thats not to say the cards 
werent important to her  I can see Ms B had held discussions with HSBC requesting a 
replacement card which wasnt sent. 
From the information provided to me HSBC have accepted the email of July 2019 was sent 
in error and the account was technically closed on their books. In all probability the credit 
card account was closed due to the lack of activity, but that doesnt mean HSBC should 
simply close this and the other account without some notification to Ms B. This was 
exacerbated by the fact shortly prior to the final date Ms B was given to inform HSBC if she 
still required the credit card account, she contacted them to say she did and requested a 
replacement card. At this point I agree with the investigator, HSBC should have informed Ms 
B her accounts had been closed and replacement cards couldnt be issued. This would have 
reduced the time it took for Ms B to establish her accounts were closed and avoid going to 
the trouble of getting the small balance on the credit cards recredited to her bank account.
Although HSBC have acknowledged this and offered £25 by way of an apology, like the 
investigator this doesnt properly reflect the trouble Ms B has been through and £100 seems 
a more reasonable amount to compensate her here. 
I am aware Ms B feels strongly about how she has been treated and this service should 
penalise HSBC for their actions and put her back to the position she would have been before 
the credit card accounts were closed. While I am sympathetic to Ms Bs situation here its 
worth saying, even if Ms B doesnt agree, its not my role to penalise banks like HSBC, that 
is for the regulators - my role is to ensure banks like HSBC act fairly when it recognises a 
mistake has taken place. Its important to mention the mistake here is HSBCs failure to both 
properly notify Ms B of the closure of her credit card accounts and adding to the confusion 
by offering to send a replacement credit card when, in this case it couldnt as the account 
was already closed. I cant agree HSBC have been unfair in closing the accounts in first 
place as that is in their terms and conditions as mentioned before, which is detailed under 
Section 9 A:
This Agreement has no fixed or minimum duration, however we may cancel or suspend the 
use of the Card for all or any purposes.
Ms B suggests as this service has supported her complaint regarding the failing of HSBC to notify her of the credit card accounts closures, it follows we should agree theyve incorrectly 
closed her accounts too.  As a result, Ms B wishes this service to put her back to the position 
she would have been before the credit card accounts were closed. While I understand the 
point Ms B makes here,  I cant agree  HSBC have done anything wrong in closing the 
accounts for the reasons I have already given, so it follows, I cant ask them to reopen them, 
even if that was possible. Ms B still has the opportunity to reapply for credit card facilities 
with HSBC if this is still required. 
While Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, I support the investigators view and I am 
satisfied a compensation payment of £100 is a fair award for the trouble and upset caused, 
and I wont be asking any more of HSBC here, other than that. 
Putting things right
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Ms B, £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Ms B, £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman