DRN-3032658
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt tell him his payments 
would increase when a business loan payment holiday ended.  
What happened
In May 2020 RBS agreed a payment holiday for Mr Fs business loan. The payment holiday 
was confirmed in writing. RBS said whilst the payment holiday remained in place, there 
would be no impact on Mr Fs credit file. RBS also said arrears would need to be repaid over 
an 18 month period.
In October 2020 Mr F spoke with RBS about making payments. During a call, RBS explained 
its approach had changed and that Mr F could increase the term of the loan and add the 
arrears to the outstanding balance. Mr F confirmed he wanted to proceed on that basis. But 
the call handler didnt explain that both the term and payment would have to increase to 
ensure the arrears were repaid. 
The loan term was extended and Mr Fs payments increased from £319 to £340. Mr Fs 
payments were subsequently returned unpaid. 
RBS issued a final response to Mr Fs complaint on 30 December 2020 and apologised its 
call handler didnt make it clear the loan payments would increase even though the term was 
extended. RBS paid Mr F £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But RBS said 
there was no way to avoid an increase in monthly payment following the six month payment 
holiday without clearing the arrears in full. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
RBS had dealt with Mr Fs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr F asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that RBS call handler failed to tell Mr F his payments would increase 
following the end of the payment holiday. RBS has explained that in order to repay the full 
outstanding balance, the loan term had to be extended and payments increased. Im 
satisfied thats the case. I agree RBS couldve made it clearer to Mr F when it spoke with him 
at the end of October 2020, but I can see its apologised and paid compensation for the 
inconvenience that caused. 
Mr F has told us he thinks RBS mis-sold the payment holiday. When Mr F agreed the 
payment holiday, RBS said he would need to repay the arrears balance over an 18 month 
period. By the time the payment holiday ended, the banks position changed and it agreed 
the loan terms could be changed. That meant Mr F could either repay the arrears in full or 
extend the term of the loan and increase his payments to ensure the outstanding balance 
was repaid. I agree RBS shouldve explained that both the term extension and payment 
increase would be required. But Im satisfied it correctly explained the position when Mr F 
complained. I havent found that RBS mis-sold the payment holiday or treated Mr F unfairly 
by advising it would need to extend the term and increase the monthly payment.
RBS paid Mr F £100 to apologise for the way its call handler explained his options at the end 
of the payment holiday. Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I think £100 fairly reflects RBS error 
and its impact on him. As Im satisfied RBS has dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not telling 
it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint because the business has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman