DRN-4478173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that the lifetime mortgage they have with 
Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G) was mis-sold to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took a lifetime mortgage with L&G in 2018. This mortgage was arranged for 
them by a broker who Ill refer to as R. R also provided advice on the suitability of the 
mortgage. R was unconnected to L&G.
Mr and Mrs K have raised a number of complaints about this mortgage with both L&G and R. 
This particular complaint concerns the suitability of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs K says the 
mortgage wasnt suitable and that L&G should be responsible for the advice given by R. 
They also say that L&G didnt tell them that R wasnt independent.
L&G responded to this complaint. It said it wasnt party to the advice process so couldnt say 
whether the advice was suitable or not. But this was the responsibility of R. And it explained 
that it was for R to have told them whether it was independent or not.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs K referred the complaint to our Service where one 
of our Investigators looked into it. He said that L&G wasnt responsible for the sale of the 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept this. They asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman. So, its now with me to review and make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K have raised a number of complaints that our Service has already considered. 
These involve the actions of R, and other connected businesses. I want to make clear that 
this complaint is purely about whether L&G mis-sold this mortgage. So, I wont be 
commenting on the other complaints, or the actions of other businesses.
I understand that Mr and Mrs K are very unhappy with their lifetime mortgage for a number 
of reasons. And they feel that L&G bears responsibility here. They are clearly very invested 
in this complaint and feel strongly about the matter. 
Im sorry that my decision is going to disappoint them. But, like our Investigator, Im satisfied 
L&G hasnt done anything wrong here.
The lifetime mortgage was arranged by and on the advice of R, a business that is 
independent of L&G. It was therefore R that was responsible for making sure Mr and Mrs K 
understood the mortgage they were taking, and that it was suitable for them. L&G is simply 
the mortgage provider in this situation. 
I understand Mr and Mrs K believe that L&G bears responsibility here, but this isnt correct. 
R wasnt acting as an agent of L&G or arranging this mortgage on behalf of L&G as 
Mr and Mrs K think. R was acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs K in arranging this mortgage. And 
it is R that is therefore responsible for the advice and the suitability of this mortgage.
Mr and Mrs K have also said that L&G didnt tell them that R wasnt independent. I dont 
know if R was independent or not. But it was for R to set out whether it was independent or 
not and inform Mr and Mrs K of this, not L&G.
Ultimately, L&G didnt provide Mr and Mrs K with advice, so its not responsible for the 
suitability of their mortgage. It follows that I dont think L&G mis-sold this mortgage to Mr and 
Mrs K.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman