DRN-2686782
The complaint
Miss Ms complained that Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale) gave 
her a loan without making proper checks about whether she could afford the repayments.
What happened
At the end of December 2018, Miss M borrowed £8,750 from Clydesdale to buy a car and 
repay other debts.  The loan agreement shows the monthly repayments were to be £329.50 
for the three year term.
By the end of 2019, Miss M was struggling to make payments.  So she contacted Clydesdale 
to discuss her options.  Clydesdale took her through a loan application to consolidate the 
existing loan and two credit cards.  But this was declined.
Over the following months, Miss M spoke to Clydesdale about her situation.  On several 
occasions, Clydesdale referred her to their financial care team, who dealt with customers 
struggling to make payments.  But Clydesdale and Miss M didnt agree a payment plan and 
Miss M fell into arrears. 
In mid-2020, Miss M complained to Clydesdale that she should never have been given the 
loan, as it was unaffordable.  Clydesdale investigated and rejected her complaint.  They told 
Miss M that theyd completed affordability and credit checks before they lent.  And that, 
based on the income and expenditure information shed provided, theyd had no concerns 
about her ability to meet the payments.
After she received Clydesdales response to her complaint, Miss M raised £4,500 from family 
and friends, which she offered to Clydesdale to settle the debt.  Clydesdale rejected the 
offer.  
Miss M brought her complaint to our service.  She told us she thought Clydesdale should do 
more checks before lending to young adults like her.  And she asked why Clydesdale hadnt 
defaulted her account, given shed not made payments for some time.  
Our investigator considered the case but didnt think that Clydesdale needed to do anything 
further to resolve the complaint.  She explained that banks have to do reasonable and 
proportionate checks.  And the checks they did showed that the loan repayments were 
affordable for Miss M as a lot of her expenses would be classed as non-essential.  And she 
explained that wed expect Clydesdale to be sympathetic to Miss Ms difficulties  which she 
thought they had been.
Miss M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
The decision to lend
Miss M has referred to herself as nave in money matters.  She is young.  But shes an adult.  
And it wouldnt be fair for banks to say that, just because someone is young, theyre not 
capable of making good financial decisions  any more than it would be fair for them to 
assume that older people will make more mature, considered decisions.
So, irrespective of a customers age, we expect banks to make proportionate checks to 
ensure theyd be able to meet repayments in a sustainable way, without incurring financial 
difficulties. This means that the customer should be able to make the repayments while 
meeting other reasonable financial commitments, and without having to borrow to make the 
repayments. The rules setting out these requirements say a bank needs to base its 
assessment on the information it has about a customers disposable income.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen thats what Clydesdale did here.  They asked Miss M for 
details of her income  which was around £1,030 each month.  When they asked Miss M for 
details of her expenditure, she told them she had credit commitments of £120 and paid no 
rent or mortgage as she still lived with her parents.
Clydesdale concluded that was affordable, as Miss M had over half of her salary available 
for living costs.  I think that conclusions reasonable.  The loan repayments were less than 
half the amount Clydesdale calculated as her disposable income. 
I know Miss M doesnt agree.  She thinks Clydesdale should have reviewed her spending in 
more detail.  So Ive looked at Miss Ms statements from the time she took out the loan.  
They show me she spent her salary.  And she had an agreed overdraft  which she 
sometimes used, but didnt exceed.  This isnt uncommon.  
Ive not seen anything on the statements that suggests to me that paying the loan stopped 
Miss M meeting other living costs.  So I dont think reviewing them would have led to 
Clydesdale making a different decision.  And I think the decision to lend to her was 
reasonable.
Financial difficulties
Miss M has said that shes not been able to afford the loan repayments for some time.  And 
she says shes offered solutions to Clydesdale.
We expect businesses to treat consumers who are struggling to make repayments fairly.  
That means we expect them to understand their customers circumstances and discuss 
appropriate help.  And wed expect customers to co-operate with the business to work out a 
solution.
Miss Ms told us about two solutions she offered to Clydesdale  either to give her an 
alternative loan with lower repayments, or to accept a lump sum of £4,500 to settle the debt.  
Neither of these was acceptable to Clydesdale.  But that doesnt necessarily mean they were 
acting unreasonably.  We expect the parties to work together to find the best solution 
possible for both of them.
Ive heard telephone recordings which show me that Clydesdale explored an alternative loan 
with Miss M.  But her application was declined.  Its clear from the call I listened to that 
Clydesdale didnt guarantee that shed be accepted  or that, if she was, it would reduce her 
monthly payments.  I wouldnt expect them to offer their best rate if it didnt fit their lending 
criteria.  So I think Clydesdale dealt with Miss M transparently here.  And Clydesdale declined her offer to settle the debt with a one-off payment.  They told    
Miss M they wouldnt consider this while the loan was still current.  Ive thought about this.  
My starting point is Miss M had the benefit of the money loaned to her.  So its not 
unreasonable for Clydesdale to expect that to be repaid if theres a way that can happen.  
And its not unreasonable to reject Miss Ms offer without exploring how that might be done.
The amount Miss M offered Clydesdale was less than the arrears that had built up.  So its 
reasonable for Clydesdale to have viewed the offer as a way to bring the loan up to date.  
Miss M told our investigator she didnt want to do that because she still couldnt afford the 
loan repayments.  
And she said she now has less money available as her circumstances have changed.  Im 
sorry thats the case.  But the information Ive seen is held on Clydesdales systems shows 
she can afford the payments.  
Ive not seen anything which shows me that Miss M has fully discussed her financial 
circumstances with Clydesdale - or explained how theyve changed since she took the loan.  
Notes from Clydesdales system show theyve offered to speak to Miss M about making an 
arrangement to pay and have applied breathing space while she considers her situation.  
And theyve said theyve not defaulted her account because shes been in regular contact 
with them.  Im not going to say they should have done that, because its a step that would 
have serious consequences for Miss M  and may not be the right thing if she can come to 
an arrangement with Clydesdale to make affordable payments to pay off the loan.  
Clydesdales notes show me that shes not tried to do that up to now. 
Id urge Miss M to seek advice on her debts with a view to coming to an arrangement with 
Clydesdale which is acceptable to both of them.  Because, based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think Clydesdale have been unreasonable in how theyve dealt with her.  And I dont think 
they need do anything differently to resolve her complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about Clydesdale Bank 
plc, trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman