DRN-4153587
The complaint
Miss T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card application and later increased the credit limit.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss T applied for a credit card with Capital One in December 2008 and it was approved with 
a credit limit of £200. Miss T maintained the credit card for several years. In May 2014 
Capital One increased the credit limit to £700. Capital One says the credit limit increase was
approved in line with its lending criteria.
Miss T missed some payments in 2015, 2016 and 2017 when she contacted Capital One 
and advised she was experiencing financial difficulties. Arrears continued to accrue and the 
account was closed at default in January 2018.
In 2020 Miss T complained to Capital One that it had lent irresponsibly and it sent her a final 
response. Capital One didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint and didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly.
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ts complaint. They said the time limits noted in 
our rules meant we couldnt consider Miss Ts complaint about the original credit card 
application. Miss T accepted but asked the investigator to look at the credit limit increase 
from £200 to £700 in May 2014. The investigator didnt think Capital One had lent 
irresponsibly when it approved the credit limit increase to £700 and didnt uphold Miss Ts 
complaint. Miss T asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has already said, we cant look at the original credit card application in 
2008 due to the time limits noted in our rules. In this decision, Im going to focus on the credit 
limit increase in May 2014 which falls within our remit.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken our approach into account when reviewing Miss Ts complaint. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances.
As a lending relationship continues over time and the level of credit increases, lenders may 
need to obtain further information from a borrower to check whether theyre lending 
responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the customer.
Capital Ones explained it looked at Miss Ts credit file and account history for her credit card 
when considering whether to proceed with a credit limit increase in May 2014. And Capital 
One says the credit limit increase was approved in line with its lending criteria. Ive looked at 
the information available to see whether Capital One carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Having done so, I think there were clear signs Miss T may not have 
been able to sustainably repay further borrowing prior to the credit limit increase in May 
2014. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Miss Ts credit card activity in the year before the credit limit was increased. I 
think its reasonable to note that in the 12 months before the credit limit increase Miss T 
incurred five late payment or overlimit fees due to the activity on her credit card. In addition, I 
can see that the majority of transactions on Miss Ts credit card statements in the 12 months 
before the credit limit increase were either to a gambling company or were cash advances. 
And I can see the payments made to the gambling company incurred cash handling fees. In 
my view, using a credit card for gambling purposes to the level seen on Miss Ts credit card 
statements shouldve caused Capital One to carefully consider whether offering further 
borrowing was reasonable and sustainable for her. I think the information available to Capital 
One shouldve caused it to consider completing more comprehensive checks before 
deciding whether to extend Miss Ts credit limit further.
We recently asked Miss T to send us a copy of her bank statements for the three month 
period before May 2014 but shes advised that, due to the passage of time, theyre not 
available from her bank. Miss T has forwarded a copy of her credit file, although I accept it 
doesnt now show what was recorded in May 2014. As there is only a limited amount of 
information available, Ive considered whether the credit card activity shown on Miss Ts 
Capital One account shouldve been sufficient to show further borrowing was unsustainable. 
As Ive noted above, in the year before Miss Ts credit limit increase she incurred several 
fees for either being over the agreed credit limit or making a late payment. In addition, I think 
the way Miss T was using her credit card shows she was struggling to maintain her finances 
at the time. The majority of transactions were for gambling purposes, incurring cash advance 
fees. That, in itself, ought to have shown Miss Ts ability to repay further borrowing was likely 
to be very limited.
I also think its fair to note in Miss Ts case that the level of over limit and late payment fees 
she incurred following the credit limit increase in May 2014 increased substantially. I note 
that in the year after Capital One increased the credit limit Miss T incurred fees on eight 
occasions. From that point, arrears began to accrue and Miss Ts account was ultimately 
closed at default in January 2018. Whilst this information wasnt available to Capital One at 
the time of the credit limit increase in May 2014, it does go some way to verifying Miss Ts 
complaint that the credit limit increase was unaffordable.
Whilst I accept there is a limited amount of information on file for Miss Ts complaint, Ive 
considered everything thats available. Having done so, I havent been persuaded that 
Capital One completed reasonable or proportionate checks before increasing the credit limit 
in May 2014. And, on balance Im satisfied that if Capital One had carried out more 
comprehensive checks it wouldnt have increased the credit limit in May 2014. Based on the 
information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Miss Ts complaint.I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider. 
Miss T responded and confirmed she had nothing further to add before I issued my final 
decision. Capital One confirmed it was willing to accept the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I previously reached. I still think Miss Ts complaint should be upheld for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) plc to settle 
as follows:
- Rework the credit card to remove all interest, fees and charges applied to balances 
over £200 from May 2014 onwards; and
- If the effect of these reworkings results in a credit balance on the account, this should 
be refunded to Miss T along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement. In this case, Capital One should 
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ts credit file after the May 2014 
credit limit increase was applied; or
- If an outstanding balance remains on the account once the adjustments have been 
made, Capital One should ensure that Miss T is only liable for this adjusted balance 
and arrange an affordable repayment plan. Once Miss T has cleared the outstanding 
balance, any adverse information recorded from May 2014 onwards should be 
removed from her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman