DRN-3350803
The complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plc failed to refund a transaction from his account that he 
didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr J received a letter from TSB about his account which asked him to take some action 
because the account was rarely used and could be classed as dormant. Mr Js account was 
operated using a passbook  which is used to record deposits and withdrawals. This type of 
account doesnt generate statements because all the activity is recorded in the passbook. 
After receiving the letter, Mr J visited a branch of TSB and withdrew a small amount of 
money from it. 
When the withdrawal was made, the passbook updated itself and recorded some interest 
payments and a withdrawal from about three years earlier which Mr J didnt recognise. Mr J 
queried this with TSB who retrieved the payment slip related to this withdrawal.
They showed Mr J the slip that contained a signature which TSB believed was Mr Js. Mr J 
disputed that hed made the withdrawal himself and believed that it was due to a fraud within 
TSB. Mr J didnt believe the signature was his and maintained that he always brought his 
passbook in to record any activity on his account. He couldnt understand how this 
withdrawal had been allowed without recording it in the passbook. TSB maintained that Mr J 
had made the withdrawal and declined to make any refund.
Mr J complained to TSB about the withdrawal which they relooked at but didnt change their 
position. TSB explained there were various reasons (cashier error, technical issues or 
customers request) why the passbook might not have been updated at the time and didnt 
think it was significant that the withdrawal wasnt recorded in the passbook. TSB confirmed  
there had been updates to their system and procedures since the withdrawal, but the cashier 
would have followed a procedure to confirm the identity of the account holder before the 
funds were released.
Mr J continued to disagree with TSBs decision and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who 
asked both parties for evidence and information. Mr J maintained that he hadnt withdrawn 
the funds himself and thought it was an internal fraud that was responsible. 
TSB provided copies of their system information showing that they didnt keep a copy of Mr 
Js signature in electronic form and that it was only available when viewed under a special 
light on his passbook. They provided copies of the disputed transaction withdrawal slip and 
one from an undisputed withdrawal to compare signatures. TSB confirmed that theyd had 
no instances of staff fraud and the withdrawal didnt support a third-party gaining access to it 
as funds were left in the account rather than being drained.
Our investigator didnt think that the withdrawal was the result of fraud and it was most likely 
that Mr J was responsible, and he didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J maintained that he wasnt responsible and wanted a further review of his complaint. He 
wanted further information to be considered:
Mr J wanted to understand the time of the withdrawal because he would only visit the 
branch during certain hours due to work.
He wanted to know if CCTV had been recovered to prove it was him at the counter.
Mr J questioned the code used on his passbook.
He wanted to know why the entry wasnt entered manually if there was a problem 
with a printer at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint revolves around a withdrawal made some time ago from a visit to a branch. 
What that means here is that theres a limited amount of evidence available due to the time 
that has passed and changes in systems/procedures. Also, branch visits dont usually tend 
to generate a lot in the way of paperwork, especially for accounts that use a passbook.
TSB procedures at the time required the cashier to check the withdrawal was made by the 
genuine account holder and theres no evidence to show that it wasnt done during this 
withdrawal. Mr J speculated the withdrawal was due to internal fraud at the bank, and TSB 
specifically sought information about this from the branch in question who confirmed theyd 
had no instances of branch fraud. I appreciate Mr J thinks this might be the first indication of 
such fraud, but I dont think thats the likely explanation.
Mr J denied the signature was his and believed someone else was responsible for forging it. 
But, a record of it isnt kept electronically by TSB and its only recorded on the passbook 
itself which also requires a special light to reveal it. As Mr J still had the passbook in his 
possession, it seems unlikely anyone else could have copied the signature from it. 
The signatures from the two withdrawals arent dissimilar and together with the procedures 
the branch staff are required to carry out to satisfy themselves that the account holder is 
genuine, I dont think its likely that the withdrawal was made by anyone other than Mr J. 
Mr J wanted to understand why CCTV wasnt retrieved by TSB to prove that it was him that 
made it. CCTV isnt typically kept for very long so I would doubt its available. In any event, I 
dont think TSB needed to do anything further because the withdrawal followed their normal 
procedures and they were satisfied that it was the genuine account holder who withdrew the 
funds. 
TSB explained there are various reasons why the passbook wasnt updated at the time but I 
doubt the actual reason will ever be known. Whats relevant here is that TSB were satisfied 
the account holder was genuine (Mr J) and theres no evidence to point to any other reason 
for the withdrawal.
I know Mr J wanted to understand the timing of the withdrawal and is adamant that it wasnt 
him who made it. The time isnt recorded and as Ive already mentioned, the evidence I have 
been able to examine persuades me that the withdrawal was more likely than not made by 
Mr J.TSB explained that the codes they used (in the passbook) changed over time and there was 
nothing unusual about this. I dont think that the use of a different code for the disputed 
withdrawal indicates anything other than TSB changing their internal processes to support 
their business functions. 
When Ive examined the passbook, there were funds remaining in it. I understand Mr J thinks 
this supports his case that it was fraudulent and that small withdrawals were being made 
from other accounts, but theres no evidence to support this. If a third party had gained 
access to his account, Id have thought it more likely that there may have been further 
withdrawals over the three-year gap between the disputed transaction and when Mr J went 
into the branch. Most thieves would be aware that their theft would come to light at some 
point, so tend to maximise their opportunity to steal available funds, particularly given the 
length of time the account was unused. That didnt happen in this case. 
When Ive considered all the evidence and information from both parties, my objective 
assessment is that I think Mr J was more likely than not responsible for the withdrawal and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman