DRN-3818240
The complaint
Miss S has complained about her car insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited as she believes it 
prejudiced her chance of obtaining a settlement in a personal injury claim after she sustained 
injury during a road traffic accident.
What happened
Miss S was waiting in a yellow-boxed area to turn when another driver collided with her. She 
notified Ageas. Ageas initially marked the claim as being Miss Ss fault and admitted such to 
the insurer for the other driver. Whilst it later sought to retract that admission, the other 
insurer didnt accept that. 
When Miss S took action in respect of her personal injury the other driver relied on that initial 
acceptance as proof of Miss Ss liability. The court confirmed that the initial acceptance of 
liability by Ageas was binding and could not be rescinded, meaning it could be relied upon 
by the other driver in support of their claim. The other driver won their injury claim whilst 
Miss S, who had made a claim for £2,700, lost and wasnt awarded anything. Miss S felt that 
was Ageas fault.
Ageas accepted that it had agreed liability too early. But it had sought to retract that a few 
months later and then again formally as part of the injury claim. It noted though that it was by 
no means clear that, if the retraction had been allowed, liability for the loss could have been 
successfully challenged. And even if it could have been shown that Miss S wasnt liable or 
was only partly liable for the crash, it wasnt certain how much she might have been awarded 
by the court for her injury claim. Ageas said as it had been at fault for acting too quickly 
initially, it would reinstate the no claims discount so Miss Ss claim record reflected no-fault 
by her and waive her £1,200 excess in full (it initially offered to waive half but increased that 
when Miss S raised concerns about the effect of its error on her personal injury claim). 
Miss S remained unhappy so she complained to us.
Our Investigator felt Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably to make up for its failure. So he 
didnt recommend that it do anything more.
 
Miss S felt that the erroneous acceptance of liability by Ageas had clearly prejudiced her 
personal injury claim. So she thought it should settle her injury claim in full. Her complaint 
was passed to me for an Ombudsmans review. I felt Ageas had failed her and it should pay 
her £1,350, plus interest. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
I appreciate that this is frustrating for Miss S. And I can see why she might think Ageas 
should pay her redress in-line with her injury claim. After-all Ageas accepted that it made a 
mistake by accepting Miss Ss liability for the accident and it is clear that the injury claim was 
successful, for the other driver, off the back of that liability acceptance.  
But that, by itself, is not enough to say Miss S lost out on her claimed amount in its entirety 
because of Ageas failure. It is often the case in road traffic accidents that the issue of 
liability is not straightforward, and many claims result in acceptance of liability being split 
between the parties. So all Ageas mistake means for certain is that a chance to defend 
Miss Ss liability position, and for her to be heard in court, was lost. Its by no means certain 
that if that chance had not been lost, Miss S/Ageas would have been successful in attaining 
an outcome fully in Miss Ss favour.
However, it is for me to decide what most likely would have happened if that chance had not 
been lost. Clearly Miss S believes she was not at fault in any way. And Ive no doubt that she 
would have expressed that view in court, given the chance. But the strength of her conviction 
does not mean the court would likely have found in her favour. Not least as it seems the 
other driver was equally of the view that they were not at fault. So a court would need to look 
at the available evidence to decide liability. Whilst that didnt happen, Im aware that the 
solicitor involved in the case, if the court had agreed to the retraction of the liability 
admission, felt a settlement based on 50/50 liability should be put forwards. This indicates to 
me that the solicitor, with its knowledge of how court cases like this often resolve, didnt think 
it was likely an outcome fully in Miss Ss favour could be achieved. 
So I can understand why Ageas wouldnt agree to settle things in full for Miss S. And it 
seems that it wasnt even certain an agreement or settlement based on a 50/50 split of 
liability could be achieved. But that was what the solicitor involved felt was possible. And 
seemingly Ageas has based its redress on the likely outcome being 50/50, initially offering 
half of the excess sum to Miss S. Im further mindful that a solicitor like this is usually best 
placed to assess what the likely outcomes and chances of achieving them are. As such 
I think it is fair and reasonable to say the likely outcome for Miss Ss claim, if Ageas had not 
accepted liability in error, would have been that an agreement based on, or a finding that, 
Miss S and the other driver were each equally liable for the accident.
Further, given there is caselaw and set guidelines for values to award in injury claims, 
solicitors will often set fairly realistic claim amounts which do not usually fall entirely wide of 
the mark. I also bear in mind that it would have been possible for Ageas to get legal advice 
on the claim amount had it wanted to show that it was unlikely that Miss S would have been 
awarded as much as half of the sum claimed (by her solicitor) (based on liability being split 
50/50). So I dont think Ageas has shown that it did offer Miss S a fair settlement when it 
effectively awarded her £600, about a quarter of the claimed amount, in respect of the injury 
claim. I think that sum equates to reasonable compensation for non-financial loss, including 
Miss Ss loss of opportunity to be heard in court. But I think it has been shown that Miss S 
has had a likely financial loss caused by Ageas failure, and that is likely in the sum of 
£1,350  being half the sum of the injury claim. So I think it should pay this to her, plus 
interest* from the date the injury claim concluded in favour of the other driver.  
In saying that I have taken into account the other redress Ageas has offered, namely in 
respect of how the claim has been recorded, the no claims discount and waiver of half the 
excess amount. The latter of which puts Miss S in the position shed have been in if this had 
been settled 50/50, with half of her excess being covered by the other driver. Ageas fairly 
and reasonably had to do that to make up for its error. Regarding the claim record and 
reinstating the no claims bonus, Ageas went a step further. I say that because a strict 
reliance by Ageas on 50/50 being the most likely outcome in this respect would have meant 
the loss of the bonus and a finding of fault logged against Miss S. The amended outcome 
will doubtless benefit Miss S. But that doesnt mean Ageas can reasonably then overlook, or 
that I should disregard, Miss Ss likely financial loss of the injury claim settlement. That 
would result in an unfair and unreasonable outcome. As I said above, I think Ageas should 
pay Miss S £1,350, plus interest*, and that is in addition to the redress it has already 
provided. Miss S will then have been compensated for the upset she suffered and have been 
restored financially, as closely as reasonable possible, to the position she would have been 
in, had Ageas not erred regarding acceptance of liability, in respect of both her car and 
personal injury claims.Miss S said she accepted my findings. Ageas said it felt the £600 it had offered, to 
compensate for Miss Ss lost opportunity, should be taken into account as part of the £1,350 
 meaning it would only have £750 to pay. It reiterated that, in its view, there was no way to 
know what a court would have awarded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ageas has said again that there was no way for it to know what a court may have 
awarded Miss S. But it is possible for expert legal opinions to be sought in this respect. 
In any event, Ageas notes that using Miss Ss claimed for amount as a starting point, and 
halving it, is a fair way forward. Ageas issue is that the £600 already paid should then be 
deducted from that sum. But Im not persuaded that would create a fair outcome. That is 
because the £1,350 in question represents Miss Ss likely financial loss incurred on account 
of Ageas failure. Whereas the £600 is a compensatory amount to make up for her distress 
and inconvenience caused by that failure. Making Miss S whole again, financially, does not 
take away the fact that she lost her opportunity to have this matter aired in court and that she 
was upset and frustrated as a result. That is her non-financial loss. This service views 
financial and non-financial loss separately, with redress, where applicable, being awarded in 
respect of each. 
As such, my provisional view on the fair and reasonable redress required here has not 
changed. My findings remain as those stated provisionally and, with the addition of my 
comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Miss S £1,350, plus interest* from the date the injury claim concluded 
until settlement is made. As noted above, this is in addition to the other redress Ageas has 
already provided.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Ageas to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman