DRN-1769181
Complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK plc broke the terms and conditions for her 123 Graduate 
account when it changed it to an Everyday account.
Background
Mrs B had a current account with Santander. She changed the account to a 123 Graduate 
Account on 14 May 2017. She says Santander wrote to her in May 2019 giving notice it 
would automatically transfer the account to an Everyday account. 
She contacted the branch to query this. She said the account shouldnt be changed until the 
third anniversary of the date it was opened. She says the branch confirmed that she was 
correct. But, she says in July 2019 she noticed certain charges had been applied to her 
account. She complained to Santander.
Santander investigated her complaint. It said her account had automatically been transferred 
to an Everyday account in line with the terms and conditions that applied when she opened 
the account. These stated that the account would be transferred to a different current 
account on the third anniversary of the date on which she graduated. It said shed graduated 
in June 2015. So, it didnt agree to change the account back to a 123 Graduate account.
Santander agreed that Mrs B had contacted the branch in May 2019. It said it had no 
recording of the telephone call. But, it accepted that shed been given wrong expectations 
about her account being changed back to a 123 Graduate account. So, it credited her 
account with £100 by way of compensation and refunded a charge thatd been applied to her 
account.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with this response. She complained again to Santander. It said it'd 
reviewed her complaint. It credited her account with a further £100 by way of compensation. 
And, it changed the account back to a 123 Graduate account, backdating the change.
Because Mrs B wasnt satisfied with this response, she complained to our service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint. He thought Santander had acted fairly and 
reasonably. He referred to the terms and conditions which applied when Mrs B opened the 
123 Graduate account. These said the account would automatically be transferred on the 
third anniversary of her graduation date. He thought that £200 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for what happened.
Mrs B didnt agree. She referred to the terms and conditions for the account dated 17 
October 2018. These said the 123 Graduate account would automatically transfer on the 
third anniversary after it was opened. Our investigator said this didnt change his view. He 
thought Santander had put her back in the position she wouldve been in even if no error had 
occurred. Mrs B didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the Specific Conditions for the 123 Graduate account. When the account was 
opened in May 2017 these stated:
            12. Changes to your 123 Graduate Current Account
Unless you notify us beforehand that you wish to have different facilities with us, then 
on the third anniversary of the date on which you completed your course of full-time 
study (as referred to in the eligibility section) youll cease to be eligible for this 123 
Graduate Current Account and;
your current account will automatically be transferred to an appropriate current 
account, in respect of which the General Terms & Conditions for Current Accounts 
and Savings Accounts will continue to apply; and
the Specific Conditions in this document will cease to apply to your current account.
 
At that time Santander wouldve been entitled to automatically transfer Mrs Bs account to 
another account on the third anniversary of the date shed completed her course of full-time 
study. That would be three years after the date she graduated. Mrs B has confirmed she 
graduated on 30 June 2015. So, Santander couldve transferred her account at any time 
after 30 June 2018. But, it didnt do that until July 2019.
Santander also reserved the right to change the Specific Conditions by giving two months 
notice. I can see that on 17 October 2018 Santander exercised this right and changed the 
Specific Conditions. It replaced Clause 12 with a new Clause 11 which stated:
            11. Changes to your 123 Graduate Current Account
Unless you notify us beforehand that you wish to have different facilities with us, then 
on the second anniversary of your account opening (third anniversary for any accounts 
opened before 26th June 2017) youll cease to be eligible for this 123 Graduate 
Current Account;
your current account will automatically be transferred to an appropriate current 
account, in respect of which the General Terms & Conditions for Current Accounts 
and Savings Accounts will continue to apply; and
the Specific Conditions in this document will cease to apply to your current account.
Mrs B says that from 17 October 2018 the new Specific Conditions applied to her account. 
And, she says from 17 October 2018 her account shouldnt have been transferred until after 
14 May 2020.
Ive thought about what Mrs B has said here. It is the case that she ceased to be eligible for 
the 123 Graduate Account after 30 June 2018. At that date the Specific Conditions said her 
account would automatically be transferred to an appropriate current account. And, the 
Specific Conditions would cease to apply. But, Santander didnt automatically transfer the 
account. Because of that I think doubts arise as to whether the Specific Conditions ceased to 
apply.
If the Specific Conditions continued to apply then, from 17 October 2018, Mrs Bs account 
couldnt be transferred to an Everyday account until after 14 May 2020. In these circumstances, where there is doubt about the correct interpretation of the Specific 
Conditions, I think its fair and reasonable to interpret the agreement in a way which is in Mrs 
Bs favour. So, thats what Id expect Santander to do.
I can see that in August 2019 Santander agreed to change the account back to a 123 
Graduate account. It backdated that to the date when it had previously changed the account 
to an Everyday account. And, it says it will give Mrs B notice before it automatically transfers 
the account to another type of account. 
So, Santander has now put Mrs Bs account back into a position which is in line with an 
interpretation of the agreement which is in Mrs Bs favour. 
Ive also thought about the other actions Santander took to try to resolve the issue which Mrs 
B raised with it. It has credited her account with £200 (in total) and refunded a fee which was 
charged to her account. 
I can see that Mrs B had to raise this matter with Santander several times and she had to 
produce her graduation certificate. So, shes experienced trouble and upset as a result of 
Santanders decision to transfer her account in July 2019. But, I agree with our investigator 
that, in addition to the actions taken to reinstate the account as a 123 Graduate Account, 
£200 is fair and reasonable compensation for whats happened. So, I dont require 
Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman