DRN-2015288
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) removed the staff 
discount from her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B had buildings insurance with Lloyds. She had been a long-serving member of staff, 
and she remained eligible for the staff discount after she left the business. 
Ms B called Lloyds during the policy renewal period to discuss a loyalty discount. Lloyds told 
her that the staff discount would be removed from her policy. Ms B complained that it hadnt 
told her about the change and Lloyds explained that it was only removing the discount when 
policyholders phoned. 
Ms B remained unhappy. After investigating her complaint, Lloyds offered £40 by way of 
apology for not letting her know about the decision to remove the discount. However, Ms B 
didnt think that was enough. She thought Lloyds hadnt treated her fairly because if she 
hadnt called at renewal she wouldve kept the discount.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that Lloyds hadnt told Ms B about 
the decision to remove staff discount, but he thought the goodwill payment of £40 was 
enough. While Ms B was frustrated that the discount was removed only because she called, 
our investigator explained that he couldnt ask Lloyds to reinstate it.
Ms B didnt agree. She remained of the view that Lloyds should honour the staff discount 
she was entitled to as retired staff.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Ms B will be unhappy with this, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
I understand Ms B is upset because, when she called to ask for a loyalty discount, she found 
out that she was no longer entitled to a staff discount. She wasnt told this would happen 
when she retired. I know Ms B thinks the discount was only removed because she called for 
a further discount, but I dont think its that straightforward. 
Lloyds decided to remove the staff discount for everyone whod left the business. As it 
happens, this coincided loosely with Ms Bs renewal period and her renewal letter still 
included the discount. So when she called to discuss a further discount, Lloyds had to tell 
her about the change in eligibility criteria, which meant she was no longer entitled to the staff 
discount. Lloyds told her because she called but I dont think that means policyholders who 
didnt call would benefit from the staff discount indefinitely. As an experienced member of 
staff, I think Ms B is aware that underwriters can and do change eligibility criteria. So Lloyds 
didnt do anything wrong here.
I realise it will have come as a shock to Ms B when she was hoping to reduce the premium 
she paid, and the timing was unfortunate for her. But I cant see any evidence that Lloyds 
treated her unfairly. Lloyds didnt backdate the removal of the discount, so Ms B did benefit 
from it beyond the date it shouldve been removed. 
She thinks other retired staff will have kept their discount for at least a while longer, and I 
understand how this can seem unfair. Even so, Im looking at Ms Bs complaint and not 
whether other policyholders have benefitted from a discount to which they werent entitled. 
Ultimately, the staff discount was relatively small, so the £40 compensation more than 
covers any loss for the year.
Ms B said she wants the discount reinstating. Thats not something I can ask Lloyds to do 
and I think Ms B will understand that. Ms B wants Lloyds to treat her fairly and I think it is. By 
removing the staff discount from her policy premium, its applying the same rules to her as it 
does to other retired Lloyds staff. It wouldnt be fair if it reinstated the discount just for Ms B.
As Ive said, I can understand that the decision came as a surprise to Ms B because Lloyds 
hadnt written to her about the change to the retired staff discount. Its not clear why Lloyds 
said it cant identify all the affected policyholders, but I dont think that matters now. It paid 
£40 in recognition of the failure to notify Ms B of the change and I think thats fair. Thats 
because the discount wouldve been removed whether or not Lloyds told Ms B beforehand, 
so she hasnt lost out as a result. I can also see that Lloyds gave Ms B a little extra time to 
cancel without charge if she wished to insure with another company. I dont think Lloyds 
needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman