DRN-3400619
The complaint
Mr Y and Ms F complain Nationwide Building Society have failed to pay them a £125 
incentive payment when moving an existing current account over to one of Nationwides 
current accounts.
What happened
Mr Y decided he wanted to transfer his sole current account that he held with a bank (who Ill 
refer to as H) to a Nationwide joint account he held with Ms F. As the transfer was being 
made to a joint account, Mr Y and Ms F would have been eligible for the £125 incentive 
Nationwide were offering once the transfer was complete. In order to qualify for this 
incentive, one of the requirements was that the account being transferred over to the 
Nationwide account needed to have two active direct debits.
Mr Y says H didnt allow the transfer to happen as he was attempting to transfer his sole 
account to the Nationwide joint account. In order for the transfer to be successful, H said Mr 
Y had to add Ms F to his sole account. And that Mr Y needed to visit one of Hs branches in 
order to do this.
Mr Y said the nearest H branch was 30 miles away, so he chose not to do this. Mr Y then 
asked Nationwide if he could transfer another account instead. Nationwide said this was fine, 
but that Mr Y would need to start a new transfer application for this to happen. Nationwide 
also confirmed they allow for transfers to happen from a sole account to a joint account. 
After this, Mr Y transferred an account he held with another bank to the joint Nationwide 
account and the transfer was successful. 
However, Mr Y and Ms F realised they didnt receive the £125 incentive payment when the 
transfer was completed. Mr Y and Ms F raised this with Nationwide and they said this was 
because the account Mr Y transferred over, didnt have two active direct debits at the time. 
Therefore, the eligibility criteria wasnt met for the £125 incentive payment.
Mr Y said this was a complete oversight on his part and that he didnt check there were two 
active direct debits before transferring the account. Mr Y and Ms F say Nationwide should 
honour the incentive as Mr Y acted in good faith when attempting to make the transfer for a 
second time and that Mr Y had intended to originally transfer the account that he held with H 
which did have two active direct debits. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Y and Ms Fs concerns. In summary, he said he didnt think 
Nationwide had treated Mr Y and Ms F unfairly nor did they make an error by not paying 
them the £125 incentive as they didnt meet the criteria for the transfer. Our Investigator felt 
the accounts terms and conditions made the incentive eligibility criteria clear.
Mr Y and Ms F didnt agree. They said they thought our service looked past the accounts 
terms and conditions for fairness and that Mr Y had shown his intention to meet the terms 
and conditions. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y and Ms T are correct  in that we can look past the terms and conditions of an account, 
in order to reach a fair outcome. But to do so, Id usually be satisfied the financial business 
has made an error. Here, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think Nationwide have  
so I think its fair to apply the terms and conditions. Ive first had a look at the accounts 
terms and conditions to see what the eligibility criteria was in order to qualify for the 
incentive. I can see that one of the key conditions was: 
7. You must transfer a minimum of two active Direct Debits from the current account being 
switched to the Nationwide account
The terms and conditions go on to explain when a customer wont qualify for the incentive 
and I can see that one of the conditions was:
You didnt transfer a minimum of two active Direct Debits
Its not in dispute that the account Mr Y successfully transferred over didnt have two active 
direct debits. And I appreciate Mr Y has said it was an oversight on his part. I can 
understand Mr Ys frustrations  he attempted to make the transfer the first time with the 
account he held with H but they didnt allow this to happen. However, I dont think I can fairly 
hold Nationwide responsible for this oversight. Ill explain why.
As Nationwide confirmed, they had no issue with transferring a sole account to a joint 
account with them. This only seemed to be an issue with Mr Ys bank H. When Mr Y let 
Nationwide know that he wanted to transfer another account rather than his account with H, 
Nationwide responded to Mr Y letting him know he needed to start a new application for the 
transfer. In the same email, Nationwide also included a link to their website. Having looked 
at this, I can see this website sets out the incentive terms and conditions  reminding Mr Y of 
the requirements to qualify for the incentive. Therefore, Im not persuaded Nationwide have 
done anything wrong. Theyre not responsible for Hs actions, nor can I say they didnt make 
it clear to Mr Y what the requirements of the incentive were.
I note Mr Y and Ms F have said Nationwide should honour the incentive. But I dont think it 
would be fair for me to ask Nationwide to do this. Ultimately, there are terms and conditions 
that Nationwide need to take into consideration here. And I would only be able to ask 
Nationwide to give Mr Y and Ms F the £125 incentive payment if the terms and conditions 
were met. However, as Mr Y has said, the account he transferred over didnt have two active 
direct debits  so the criteria wasnt met. Overall, I think Nationwide have acted in line with 
their terms and conditions and Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly when they declined to 
pay Mr Y and Ms F the £125.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman