DRN-3990766
The complaint
Mr B complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his private 
medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr B has membership of a group, private medical insurance 
policy via his employer. He made a claim against the policy in relation to surgery on his 
foot. BUPA paid the claim in part  it didnt pay the parts of the claim relating to 
prescribed medication and crutches, both of which were for Mr B to take home.
Mr B complains that BUPA didnt pay his claim in full. He says that BUPA didnt inform 
him that his medication and crutches to take home wouldnt be covered. Mr B says that 
the relevant exclusions should have been brought to his attention when BUPA gave its 
approval for the surgery. He says that if he had known about the exclusions, he would 
have considered alternatives. Mr B wants BUPA to pay the remainder of his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
acted unfairly. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and there were further exchanges between him 
and the investigator, which I wont set out here. In summary, Mr B said that a reasonable 
person would expect prescribed drugs and crutches after his surgery, so BUPA should 
have made the exclusion clear during the pre-authorisation call, rather than expect him 
to read a lengthy policy document. He says that he made several calls to BUPA which 
shows that he was diligent about ensuring his treatment was covered. Mr B says that he 
considers the exclusions unfair. 
Mr B asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Bs membership, the relevant parts of 
which say as follows:
What is not covered
[]
Exclusion Drugs and dressings for out-patient or take-home use and complementary 
and alternative products 
We do not pay for any drugs or surgical dressings provided or prescribed for out-patient 
treatment or for you to take home with you on leaving hospital or a treatment facility.
[]
Exclusion Physical aids and devices
We do not pay for supplying or fitting physical aids and devices (eg hearing aids, spectacles, 
contact lenses, crutches, walking sticks, etc).
Exception 1: We pay for prostheses and appliances as set out in Benefits 1 and 3 in the 
section Benefits.
[]
has the claim been handled fairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr Bs complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Mr B is responsible for the costs he incurs in having private treatment. However, if his 
treatment is eligible treatment, BUPA pays the costs that are covered under his  
benefits and in accordance with the terms of cover. Any costs not covered under    
Mr Bs benefits are his responsibility. BUPA wouldnt necessarily know whether Mr B 
would be discharged with medication and crutches. Those matters are between the 
treating medics and Mr B and dont concern BUPA.
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions. Its not the case that cover for day surgery would automatically extend 
to prescription drugs and crutches to take home. The onus is on the consumer to 
show that the claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If 
the event is covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion the 
onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive set out above the relevant exclusions in this case. I dont think that those 
exclusions are unusual or onerous such that they should have been brought 
specifically to Mr Bs attention. I think that it was sufficient for BUPA to set the 
exclusions out in the terms and conditions.  
I think the exclusions Ive set out above are clear. The exception to the exclusion in 
relation to physical aids and devices doesnt assist Mr B here as the benefit under 
3.2.7 relates to recognised facility charges for appliances needed as part of day 
patient treatment, not physical aids and devices to take home.  
I dont think that it was unfair or unreasonable for BUPA to rely on the exclusions in 
this case. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but there are no grounds on which I can 
fairly direct BUPA to pay the remainder of his claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman