DRN-2759675
The complaint
Mr N complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt 
make from his account.
What happened
Mr N contacted NatWest to dispute payments made with his card online to a gambling 
company. He says he didnt make these payments and is unhappy that he was asked to 
contact the merchant and was then referred back to NatWest.
NatWest said that there were 17 payments involved made late on 5 September 2020 and 
into the following morning. These totalled £7,850. It had contacted the merchant which had 
told it that the IP address used to deposit funds was the same as one used the previous 
month from an account that matched Mr Ns details. The larger payments were confirmed 
using 3D Secure and there were withdrawals made at that time too which credited Mr Ns 
bank account. These payments didnt match any fraud trends.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that large 
transfers were made from Mr Ns savings account to his current account to help fund 
payments. This was done using mobile banking and from the same IP address that the 
gambling merchant had recorded. Mr N had also shown that secure codes had been sent to 
his mobile during this period to verify the payments to the gambling website. Mr N had told 
her that he kept his details secure and had his phone with him while he was asleep at the 
time. But she said that there was no likely way in which an unknown third party could have 
accessed his mobile banking account and also gambling account in this was to make these 
payments. She also didnt see there was any benefit to a fraudster of gambling as that 
person couldnt have access to any winnings. She thought that it was normal for NatWest to 
ask Mr N to contact the merchant first and it couldnt do anything until the pending payments 
had been debited.
Mr N didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that as he knew he 
didnt make these payments he hadnt looked into whether or how a third party could have 
done so. He said that it wasnt in NatWests interests to look into this properly and refund the 
money. If he had been trying to make a false claim hed had said his card or phone had been 
taken. And he thought that the person doing this might have just been reckless and wanted 
to gamble. Mr N provided evidence of an attempt to use his details for an account with a 
different merchant later on 6 September 2020 and also on 11 September 2020 which he 
says was done by a fraudster. This loss and the way his dispute was dealt with has affected 
him and he intends to take this to court if his complaint isnt upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. And if payments werent authorised Mr N wouldnt 
generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened for these payments?
- Did Mr N either authorise the payments which could be by allowing someone else to 
make them?
- Did NatWest act reasonably?
Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated using Mr Ns details. These originated 
from an online merchant account Mr N had used before and which had his correct personal 
details. And hes provided a copy of a record of texts that were sent to his phone number 
with secure codes at that time showing how these were additionally verified. He is also 
disputing making the transfers between his bank accounts and Ive seen the audit 
information from NatWest showing that these were made following log-ons with his mobile 
banking app. 
The issue is whether he consented to the payments. I take his point that the size and 
frequency of the payments was greater than hed made before. And that a person making 
them might have just wanted to gamble having no way of getting any winnings which as 
NatWest showed went back to his bank account. Mr N also shows a large payment was 
attempted to another branded gambling account too. Having said that someone with access 
to mobile banking and the secure codes needed to make payments could have been in a 
position to send the significant balance in his savings account to another account too rather 
than gamble with it.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. A 
person acting without Mr Ns authority would somehow have had to have free access to his 
phone  knowing any passcode on that  and to have been able to log on to his online 
banking account and also his gambling account. Im afraid him saying he simply didnt make 
the payments doesnt provide any alternate explanation. And the use by a third-party would 
be counter to what he says about having kept his details especially about this bank account 
secure and having his phone with him while he was sleeping. And Id need to think that 
someone was somehow using the same IP address as he had used before both to make 
gambling payments and access his bank account. 
Having considered what he has said and the information from NatWest I am not persuaded 
that the most likely explanation is that these payments werent authorised by Mr N. As I find 
he was responsible for the payments I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably in not as it 
says making any other fraud checks at the time. It followed its normal process when he 
reported these payments as disputed and I dont have a basis to find that it should do 
anything more.
I know Mr N will be very disappointed by my conclusions especially as he explained that he 
needed to take a loan shortly after these payments. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman