DRN-3603289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (trading as Kensington 
Mortgages) is unfairly pursuing them for a shortfall debt some eight years after it took their 
property into possession and sold it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Kensington. The account fell into arrears and the 
property was taken into possession and sold in March 2013.
Mr and Mrs B say they thought their debt was cleared when the property was sold. They say 
they hadnt heard from Kensington since then. Mr and Mrs B say if theyd known they had to 
pay the debt theyd have agreed a repayment plan.
In late 2020 Mr and Mrs B were contacted by a debt recovery business which said it had 
bought the shortfall debt from Kensington.
Mr and Mrs B ask if they have to pay the debt after all this time. They also question the 
property sales price, which they consider was too low. Mr B is recovering from surgery and 
says this matter is causing significant stress.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties. In summary, I said, it wasnt fair for Mr and Mrs B 
to be asked to pay the debt. This is because rules on mortgage regulation say that a lender 
should inform the borrower as soon as possible of any shortfall debt. And, if it intends to 
recover the debt, it must notify the borrower of this within six years of the date of sale. 
Kensington hadnt done this.
Kensington agreed. As it had sold the debt to a third party it said it would arrange with the 
third party for the debt to be written off in full. Mr and Mrs B said this would resolve their 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Kensington provided a copy of the completion statement for the sale of Mr and Mrs Bs 
property in March 2013 and account statements. These show the sales proceeds as less 
than the balance owed. The shortfall was about £32,500. The shortfall wasnt written off 
when Mr and Mrs Bs property was sold. This was a debt owed by them to Kensington.
Kensington had instructed a qualified surveyor (a member of RICS) to value Mr and Mrs Bs 
property. The property was valued at £75,000 and sold for a bit more. Kensington appointed 
estate agents and the property was marketed for sale. It took advice from the agents about 
the price at which the property was marketed. Theres nothing to suggest Kensington didnt 
meet its obligation to obtain the best price reasonably available.
Mr and Mrs B ask whether Kensington can ask them to pay the debt after all this time. The 
Limitation Act 1980 says that a lender has 12 years to use court action to recover a principal 
sum of money secured by a mortgage. The 12 years starts from the date the property is 
sold, when the amount of the shortfall is known. The Limitation Act says the period during 
which the lender can recover arrears of interest is six years.
Less than 12 years, but more than six years, had passed since the sale of the property when 
Mr and Mrs B say they were first contacted about the shortfall debt. However, if (as is likely) 
the mortgage terms and conditions say payments are applied first to interest arrears, then 
interest due, then costs and lastly to the principal amount, the shortfall debt owed by Mr and 
Mrs B would be of principal.
If Kensington (or the third party that bought the debt) did take the matter to court, it would be 
for the court to decide whether the relevant time limits are met and whether the debt is 
enforceable. But thats not the end of the matter for me. Because as well as the time limits in 
the Limitation Act, I need to consider whether Kensington acted fairly and in accordance with 
relevant regulations and good industry practice.
Its likely this was a regulated mortgage. So the rules set out in the part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook related to mortgages (known as MCOB) applied. The rules in 
force in March 2013 say the lender should inform the borrower as soon as possible of any 
shortfall debt. And, if it intends to recover the debt, it must notify the borrower of this within 
six years of the date of sale. The intention is to ensure that borrowers are treated fairly  it 
wouldnt be fair for a lender to leave a long period before contacting a borrower about a debt. 
Borrowers should provide up to date contact details to the lender. But, if they dont, Id 
expect to see evidence that the lender made efforts to contact them.
Kensington says it lost contact with Mr and Mrs B prior to their eviction in November 2012. It 
sent letters to the security property in early 2013. Kensington knew Mr and Mrs B had left the 
property. But Mr and Mrs B hadnt provided a new address to Kensington so it couldnt write 
to them at their new address. The letters were returned to Kensington undelivered. So 
Kensington would have known Mr and Mrs B didnt receive the letters.
Its not necessarily unfair that Kensington didnt succeed in contacting Mr and Mrs B within 
six years to tell them it intended to recover the debt  especially if they didnt tell Kensington 
where they could be contacted. I would though expect Kensington to try and get in contact 
with Mr and Mrs B and it hasnt provided evidence that it did so. Kensingtons terms and 
conditions most likely give it the right to recover the debt. Im not disputing that. But what I 
havent seen is evidence that Kensington made reasonable efforts to contact Mr and Mrs B 
within six years of the property sale and tell them it intended to recover the shortfall.
I dont think it was fair for Mr and Mrs B to be notified that Kensington (or the third party that 
it sold the debt to) intended to recover the debt more than seven years after the property 
was sold  and this didnt meet the rules in MCOB. I dont think that Kensington should have 
sold the debt in these circumstances. 
Kensington agreed and said it would arrange with the third party that now owns the debt for 
the debt to be written off in full. How it arranges this is for Kensington to decide, but I think it 
would be fair for it to send written confirmation to Mr and Mrs B that the debt has been 
written off. Most likely, Mr and Mrs Bs credit files show they defaulted on the debt at about the time 
Kensington took possession. It might be that, due to the time passed, the debt is no longer 
shown on their credit files. If the debt is still shown on their credit files, then I think it would 
be fair for Kensington to update their credit files to reflect the fact that the debt has been 
written off. 
My final decision
My decision is that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited should arrange for the shortfall 
debt to be written off in full, as it offered to do. It should send written confirmation of this to 
Mr and Mrs B, and update their credit file as appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman