DRN-1950712
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy Santander UK Plc closed her accounts without giving any notice or 
providing an explanation as to why.
 
What happened
Mrs P has two sole accounts with Santander and two joint accounts. This decision deals with 
Mrs Ps sole accounts only  the joint accounts will be addressed in a separate decision. 
Both of Mrs Ps sole accounts were closed in April 2019. Santander closed the accounts with 
immediate effect, meaning no prior notice was sent to Mrs P. Instead Santander sent a letter 
for each of the accounts explaining that the accounts had been closed and enclosed with the 
letters was a cheque for the balance of the accounts. 
Mrs P has explained shes been a customer of Santander for many years and always 
maintained her accounts properly. She says the closure of her accounts has taken its toll 
mentally and financially and shes lost her status as a good standing individual in society. 
Mrs P, along with her husband, attempted to login to online banking on 5 April 2019 but were 
unable to do so, receiving an error message that the personal ID was incorrect. When Mrs P 
tried again to login on 14 April 2019 and couldnt, she called the online banking support line. 
At this point she was told her accounts had been closed and she wouldnt be given a reason 
as to why. 
On 16 April 2019, Mrs P called the online support line to get further clarifications. She was 
advised to get in touch with the branch for more information. However, when she called the 
branch, she was told there was no further information that could be provided and was 
directed back to the online support centre. 
When Mrs P called the online support centre, she asked to speak to a manager. The 
manager didnt provide any further information and insisted that either Mrs P, or her 
husband, attend branch with ID and proof of funds. Mrs P explained that she was in Kenya 
and therefore unable to attend the branch. However, the manager insisted she attend. As a 
result, Mrs P, along with her son, booked flights back to the UK. They attended the branch 
with ID and all the paperwork to show proof of funds. 
The branch provided the documents to the fraud team. But despite this, the branch wouldnt 
divulge any further information to Mrs P or provide any assistance around the account 
closure. 
Santander says it closed the accounts in line with the terms and conditions and doesnt have 
to provide a reason for this. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that Santander was entitled to close Mrs Ps accounts in line with the terms and 
conditions and it isnt required to provide an explanation for this. 
Our investigator thought Santander had given Mrs P the wrong impression that if she 
returned to the UK and visited a branch, she would be given an explanation for why her 
accounts had been closed. However, he didnt recommend Santander compensate Mrs P for 
this. He felt she would always have had to return to the UK to pick up the cheques that had 
been posted to her home address, given the fact Mrs P had said her and her husband 
needed the money urgently for an investment. He considered whether she may have got 
someone to attend her address and post the cheques to her in Kenya, but he wasnt 
convinced by this given the substantial amount of money involved and the risk of the 
cheques being lost in transit.  
Mrs P disagreed as she doesnt think its fair for Santander to not offer an explanation for 
what its done wrong. She said that although Santander has the option to cease business 
with her, it should give adequate notice. She says shes not breached any of the conditions 
that warrant immediate closure and nor have Santander ever informed her that she has. She 
doesnt feel the stress, anxiety and damage to her reputation has been taken into account. 
Mrs P also pointed out that being told to return to the UK did have cost implications, despite 
what the investigator had concluded. She said she had to purchase a flight at a much higher 
cost and forfeit her plans in Kenya. She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Account closure 
Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being closed. 
Under the terms of the account, Santander can close an account immediately in certain 
circumstances. Mrs P noted in her response to our investigators opinion that, although 
Santander do have the option to cease business with them, it should give adequate notice. 
Mrs P explained shes not done anything to breach any of the terms that allow for immediate 
closure. She pointed out shes been a loyal customer for many years and has always 
maintained her accounts properly. I appreciate that may well be the case, but Santander has 
legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to. And, having looked at the information it relied 
on to close the accounts, I dont think it acted unreasonably or made an error in closing the 
accounts immediately. 
Under the terms of the account, Santander can close an account immediately in certain 
circumstances. And, having looked at the information it relied on to close the accounts, I 
dont think it acted unreasonably or made an error in closing the accounts immediately. 
In any event, Mrs P didnt use her accounts regularly or for everyday living, so I dont believe 
the immediate closure wouldve had a material impact. So, whilst I appreciate this caused Mrs P a great deal of distress, I cant say Santander has 
treated her unfairly, or made an error in closing her accounts. It therefore follows that I wont 
be asking it to pay any compensation for this. 
Advice given to return to the UK
Part of Mrs Ps complaint is that she was asked by Santander to return to the UK and attend 
branch. Mrs Ps personal complaint is interwoven with her complaint about her joint accounts 
she holds with her husband. It was her joint account that she quoted when she called up and 
was given the advice by Santander to return to the UK. Therefore, to avoid any duplication, I 
will address this aspect of the complaint in my decision for Mrs Ps joint accounts, rather 
than in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman