DRN-2484928
The complaint
Mrs V son Mr V has complained on Mrs Vs behalf about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds 
decision to reject a theft claim she made under her home insurance policy following a 
burglary.
What happened
Mrs Vs home was burgled while unoccupied in November 2019. Mrs Vs son said he 
witnessed two men leaving the property via the front door as he was returning home. 
Contents including jewellery and cash had been stolen.
Mrs V made a claim to her insurer, Fairmead. Fairmead instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to 
deal with the claim. They in turn appointed a door and window specialist to carry out an 
inspection. 
The specialist found no signs of forced entry into the home. So he advised that the claim 
may be declined as the policy excluded cover for theft where there was no sign of violent or 
forced entry. 
Fairmead declined Mrs Vs claim as it said the policy excluded theft cover where there were 
no signs of forced entry. 
Mr V brought his mothers complaint to us. He was unhappy that hed provided photos and 
video footage of an internal door which he says has been weakened and damaged since the 
burglary. But neither Fairmead nor the LA had responded. Theyd told him they were having 
trouble viewing the footage. 
Our investigator passed the video footage to Fairmead. But Fairmead said it didnt make a 
difference. It said the footage was in relation to an internal door, not the front porch door 
which showed no signs of damage. As this was the first door to the property, its decision to 
decline the claim remained. 
Our investigator thought Fairmeads decision to decline the claim was reasonable. He said 
although Fairmead and the LA had experienced problems in viewing the footage, this didnt 
affect the decision Fairmead made. 
Mrs V and Mr V told us they accept the front porch door was unlocked when the theft 
happened. But Mr V says his door isnt the one that gave entry to their home, it was the 
internal door. And he says that this door shows signs of damage. So Mr V has asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt that having their home burgled has been a very upsetting experience for Mrs V 
and her family. And I understand that shortly after the event, Mrs V and her family lost a 
close family member. So I appreciate that having to deal with the claim as well as a family 
bereavement will have caused considerable distress.
Our role is to take an even handed and impartial approach and to decide if the insurer acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy. I know Mrs V and Mr V will be disappointed, but I think 
it has and Ill explain why.
The specialist reported to Fairmead following his visit that both the porch front door and 
internal door were made of Upvc with multi lock points. He said that there were no signs of 
forced entry to the house. He said that if the doors were locked, considerable force would 
need to be used to force them open. 
Video footage provided by Mr V to us was passed to Fairmead. This footage focuses on the 
internal door. It shows that while locked, there is some movement in the door. Fairmead 
provided is comments on the video footage. It says that while its important that the front 
porch door wasnt locked, it isnt the only thing its considered. Fairmead doesnt believe the 
internal door was fully locked either and says the video footage doesnt add anything. So it 
said its decision to decline the claim stands.
Mrs Vs policy has a common exclusion which Ive seen in many home insurance policies. 
Fairmead says it will cover a claim for theft. But it says it wont cover any loss or damage 
unless force and violence is used to gain entry to the home. 
Fairmead also listed a minimum standard of security from the policy when it declined Mrs 
Vs claim. This says the following:
we will not cover your contents or personal possessions for loss or damage by theft 
or attempted theft from your home unless
h) The last door you use when leaving your home is secured by either:
 a lock certified to British Standard BS3621 (A lock certified to British Standard 
BS8621 is acceptable for flats or maisonettes above ground level to meet fire safety 
recommendations): or
 a multi point locking system with a minimum of three locking points.
and
h) Whenever your home is left unattended:
 all doors and windows are closed and all the security devices (including locks and 
alarms) fitted to your home are put effectively into operation, and
 all keys are removed from locks and taken away from your home or placed out of 
sight
I understand how disappointed Mrs V and her son is with Fairmeads decision. But Mrs V 
and Mr V say the last door used when leaving the home wasnt locked. And I dont think the 
video footage is enough to show violence or force was used to gain entry into the home. So 
taking everything into account, I think Fairmeads decision to decline Mrs Vs claim was 
reasonable and in line with the policy. And this means I dont think it needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman