DRN-2981572
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about a payment that was taken under a continuous payment 
authority in December 2019 when Mrs G signed up to receive coins from a company 
claiming to be a coin specialist. 
Mrs G is represented by her two daughters. They feel this particular payment is a duplicate 
payment and has been taken fraudulently. They also feel all the payments taken under the 
continuous payment authority should have been questioned by Santander before leaving the 
account.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 7 May 2021 covered the 
timeline of the transactions and the details of Mrs Gs testimony. In summary, our 
investigator did not uphold the complaint. She considered the complaint was a civil dispute 
between Mrs G and the seller. She also explained that due to passage of time, it was not 
possible to raise a chargeback for the disputed payment.
Mrs Gs representatives didnt agree. They feel their mother was the victim of a scam and 
there were valid reasons why they could not have raised a chargeback on the disputed 
payment sooner.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 August 2021 explaining why I was thinking of the same 
outcome as the investigator but explained my reasoning - which was slightly different. 
Santander has confirmed it has nothing further to add. Mrs Gs representatives have nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs Gs representatives 
have presented to us, but I have read all of their submissions. Im not responding to every 
single point made but instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to 
the outcome of his complaint.
I am sorry to hear what has happened to Mrs G in this case. It is sometimes difficult to 
separate civil disputes from scams especially when goods are received, as was the case 
here. However, there are a few things that concern me about the merchant in this case.
 
As Mrs Gs representatives have pointed out, the merchant is not registered on companies 
house. They also say the invoices (which were provided for each coin purchase) did not look 
professional and I note the invoice has an address but no company registration number. Ive 
also discovered through the internet there are over 400 companies registered to the same 
address as the merchant purports to be at, but the company itself was not listed amongst 
them. Although Mrs G hasnt been able to provide any supporting evidence about how the 
scam unfolded, I have noted what Mrs Gs representatives have said about their mother 
receiving unsolicited calls and that they feel she was socially engineered and/or befriended 
by a man. I have also noted Mrs Gs age and vulnerability. Taking everything into 
consideration I believe that, on balance, there was intent to defraud in this case.
It is not in dispute that Mrs G authorised the payments. But I do feel she was likely duped by 
a scammer into setting up a continuous payment authority for them to debit her account. It 
appears that the scammer socially engineered Mrs G during a number of unsolicited phone 
calls into agreeing to purchase some coins. 
I therefore accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs G was likely the 
victim of a scam. She provided the scammer with a continuous payment authority. So, 
although she did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, Mrs G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. Amongst other things, this might involve a bank looking to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Accordingly, I first need to determine whether Santander breached that duty when executing 
Mrs Gs payment for £405.99 and any subsequent payments. 
Most of the previous activity on Mrs Gs account in the 6-month period before the scam 
related to direct debits and card payments. From what I can see, Mrs G hadnt made similar 
payments in recent times.
I appreciate this payment was not in line with Mrs Gs everyday activity and I note the 
investigator said there may be an argument that the first payment should have flagged as 
unusual. But Ive thought carefully about whether the payment was particularly suspicious 
such that Santander should have been alerted to the possibility Mrs G might have been at 
risk of financial harm and so therefore questioned her further.
However, I'm not persuaded that it's reasonable to expect Santander to have intervened in 
this case. The balance in Mrs Gs account wasnt cleared and I'm not persuaded that based 
on the size of the payment that there was enough suspicion about it that I wouldve 
expected Santander to pause before processing the payment.
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Of course, those arrangements 
do need to accommodate that spending habits alter, unusual needs arise, and it will be 
impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant number of genuine payments being 
delayed considerably and inconveniently. It remains that the payment wasnt fraud on the 
account itself. To the bank, it was a genuinely authorised payment. On the face of it, it 
seems to me that there was no reason why the payment wouldnt have seemed genuine. 
I appreciate Mrs Gs representatives main dispute is around the second payment of 
£405.99 which came out of Mrs Gs around two weeks after the first payment of the same amount. They now say no coin was received for this payment and therefore this is a 
duplicate payment.
Mrs G and her representatives went into branch on 7 March 2020 and requested that no
more payments be taken by the merchant. They say they did not raise a chargeback on that 
visit because they did not have enough time that day to check how many coins Mrs G had 
received in relation to each payment. A week later they could only find three coins even 
though four had been paid for. But they say they did not spend a long time looking for other 
coins that day as Mrs Gs sister in law had recently passed away and Mrs G was very upset 
and grieving. Then the country went into national lockdown, so the daughters could not 
easily look for the missing coin as they are not local to Mrs G and restrictions were in place. 
However, as the investigator explained the chargeback rules are absolute in relation to time 
frames. Also, chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's (VISA - in this case) 
rules. VISA sets the time limits not Santander and those time limits need to be adhered to 
strictly. So, if a cardholder doesn't raise a query or provide documents to the card issuer in 
time, then there's not really anything more the card issuer can do. It is also worth noting that 
a chargeback is not guaranteed to recover money.
Im very sorry, as I know this will be disappointing news for Mrs G and her daughters; who 
have clearly put in time and effort into pursuing this complaint. Despite my natural sympathy 
for Mrs G, who appears to have been an innocent victim of a scam, it would be unfair and 
unreasonable to hold Santander liable for payments which, under the Regulations, Mrs G 
must be regarded as having authorised.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman