DRN-4389031
The complaint
Mr C is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.  He says they shouldnt have lent to him 
as the loan was unaffordable. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr C took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn, to finance the 
purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £400 and borrowed £5,095 - the cash price of the 
vehicle was £5,495. The agreement required him to make 35 monthly repayments of 
£251.85. Mr C made his payments on time until April 2020, when he was granted a six-
month payment holiday. In the months that followed he made payments mostly on time, by 
card, and he settled the loan in full in October 2022.
In the same month, Mr C complained to Moneybarn, saying they were irresponsible in 
lending to him. He wanted them to refund all interest and charges associated with the loan 
and remove the adverse marker from his credit file.
In response to Mr Cs complaint, Moneybarn said theyd done a full credit search with one of 
the credit reference agencies (CRAs). They said this showed Mr C had defaulted on some 
previous borrowing but the most recent of these was 17 months prior to his application. They 
said the credit report showed some County Court Judgments (CCJs) but the most recent of 
these was 7 months prior to his application. 
Moneybarn added that theyd checked Mr Cs income using one of the CRA tools. This 
check uses information from a customers current account to confirm regular income. They 
said they verified Mr Cs monthly income of £1,800 and determined that this was in line with 
his stated occupation. They also used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate 
Mr Cs non-discretionary expenditure and calculated he had net disposable income of 
around £500 each month.
Moneybarn also said Mr C had made most of his payments on time and theyd seen that his 
financial situation had improved between July 2019 and January 2023 when he made a 
further application for vehicle finance. So they didnt think their agreement had caused any 
detriment to Mr Cs financial circumstances.
Mr C wasnt happy with Moneybarns response so brought his complaint to our service. He 
said the loan was unaffordable, especially as he had a poor credit score CCJs at the time of 
the agreement. He said hed had to borrow from family and friends, as well as payday 
lenders, in order to make the repayments.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. His view was that Moneybarns checks 
hadnt been proportionate  but if they had, Moneybarn would have been able to fairly 
decide that the repayment was affordable and it was reasonable to lend to Mr C. 
Mr C rejected our investigators view, saying he didnt agree with our investigators 
calculations of his disposable income  he said there was no way he had £500 per month to 
spare and told us the only reason hed been able to settle the agreement was because hed 
inherited some money. Because our investigator and Mr M couldnt reach an agreement, the 
complaints come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging itll be disappointing for Mr C, Im not upholding his 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator - Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Cs credit file; 
verified his income using a CRA tool; and
used ONS data to calculate his monthly net disposable income at £500 before 
making repayments on the agreement.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, the cost of credit, and what Moneybarn found.
Moneybarn havent kept a copy of the credit file they looked at but theyve told us it showed 
Mr C had nine outstanding defaults at the time but the most recent of these was 17 months 
old. Theyve also said he had two CCJs, the most recent of which was seven months old. 
Looking at Mr Cs copy of his credit report, I can see the CCJs were recorded in 
September 2018 and December 2018, and the most recent default was in February 2018. 
Mr Cs report shows he had only one active credit balance at the time of the lending, of 
around £150. But, from what Moneybarn have told us, his default balances totalled over 
£5,000 and werent reducing. 
As well as checking Mr Cs credit file, Moneybarn used a CRA tool to verify his income and 
ONS data to estimate his expenditure. CONC allows the use of statistical data, but only if 
theres no reasonable cause to suspect that the customers non-discretionary expenditure is 
significantly higher than that described in the data. Mr Cs CCJs were recent and his default 
balances werent reducing  Im satisfied this is reasonable cause to suspect that the 
statistical data which suggested Mr C had disposable income of £500 per month might not 
be applicable. 
On balance, Im not satisfied Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ms application for finance.What would Moneybarn have found if they had done proportionate checks?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Mr Cs 
income and expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
Ive looked at statements for Mr Cs main bank account for the three months leading up to 
his application to Moneybarn. Im not saying Moneybarn needed to obtain bank statements 
as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements 
provide a good indication of Mr Cs income and expenditure at the time the lending decision 
was made.
The bank statements show that Mr Cs income from employment was regular and roughly 
the same amount each month. On average his net monthly income across April to 
June 2019 was £1,643. He had no other sources of income, with only occasional refunds or 
transfers crediting his account with small amounts. 
Looking at the monthly average of regular payments from Mr Cs bank statements, these 
amounted to around £674 on rent and household bills, £45 for road tax on two vehicles, £19 
for bank charges, and £67 on payments to creditors. He spent on average £156 per month 
on fuel, £100 on groceries and £18 on a phone. I cant see any other regular, committed or 
non-discretionary expenditure on his bank statements, though there were several cash 
withdrawals which Mr C may have used for non-discretionary items. 
In summary, I can see Mr C had committed or non-discretionary expenditure at the time of 
around £1,079. Adding on the monthly repayments for this agreement of £252 takes his 
expenditure to £1,331. Deducting this from Mr Cs income of £1,643 left him with around 
£312 per month to cover discretionary spending. 
Im aware Mr Cs said he didnt have much spare each month. But I can see his bank 
account had a healthy positive balance for the three months prior to the loan, and he was 
spending money on discretionary items such as eating out, sports and clothing. This 
supports my analysis that he did have a reasonable amount of disposable income.
In conclusion, if Moneybarn had done proportionate checks, Im satisfied theyd have 
determined that Mr Cs income significantly outweighed his non-discretionary expenditure 
and could have fairly decided the lending was affordable. So I cant uphold Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman