DRN-4255379
The complaint
Ms R has complained about claim delays by U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege 
Home Insurance (UKI) under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R contacted UKI to make a claim when lightning damaged her home. UKI accepted the 
claim and appointed contractors. Ms R later complained to UKI about a range of issues, 
including delays with the claim and damage caused by the contractors.
UKI didnt respond to the complaint. So, Ms R complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She said there had been a range of issues with the claim, including Ms 
R having to chase for responses and chasing for payments to be made. She said UKI should 
pay Ms R £800 compensation because of the poor service
As Ms R didnt think the compensation was enough, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the evidence from both parties to understand what happened during this claim. 
There were a number of occasions when Ms R had to chase for progress on the claim, 
including to get payments for alternative accommodation before she needed to pay the 
accommodation provider. Ms R also had to extend her stay in alternative accommodation. 
However, because a payment wasnt made by UKI in time, Ms R had to move from rented 
accommodation to a hotel at short notice and then had to move within the hotel on a few 
occasions. I can see that Ms Rs concerns about where she would be living and whether she 
would be able to pay the accommodation would have caused her concern at various points 
during the claim. Its my understanding that Ms R was also concerned about the timing of 
payments for her pet living in kennels
UKI also delayed making payment for the electricity costs, as it wanted to discuss internally 
whether it could deduct payments from a government scheme. Ultimately, it decided it 
couldnt do so. I think this also negatively impacted Ms R and affected the amount of money 
available to her at what was already a difficult time.
Ms R was also concerned about the quality of some of the repairs to her home and that 
UKIs contractors caused extra damage. Im aware Ms R thought the contractors were 
careless with her home and her possessions and didnt always secure the property properly. 
I can understand that this would have added to Ms Rs concerns about the claim and the 
way it was being dealt with.
So, Ive thought about compensation. There will always be a certain amount of disruption 
and inconvenience with any insurance claim. It was also likely to take time for some of the 
work to be completed, even if there were no additional or avoidable delays. Ms R has said 
UKI should compensate her for items such as her mortgage payments. However, she would 
have had to pay these costs anyway, so I wouldnt expect an insurer to pay them. I also 
wouldnt expect compensation to be calculated on a per day basis, which Ms R referred to. 
Instead, I would normally consider the overall impact on the policyholder where something 
has gone wrong or a business has acted unfairly.
Ms R has described the impact on her and her wellbeing because off how the claim was 
handled and the uncertainty she had about a number of aspects of the claim, including when 
work would start and finish, the poor communication, concerns about where she would be 
living and how she would pay for things like the alternative accommodation. Having thought 
about this, I think UKI should pay a total of £800 compensation to reflect the impact on Ms R.
Im aware Ms R was also concerned about outstanding repair or snagging issues. If any 
work remains outstanding related to this claim, UKI should urgently review them and take the 
necessary steps to resolve them.
Putting things right
UKI should pay £800 compensation and urgently review any outstanding works in relation to 
the claim and take action to resolve them.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require U 
K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Home Insurance to:
Pay Ms R a total of £800 compensation.
Urgently review any outstanding work in relation to this claim and take the action 
required to resolve them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman