DRN-2075535
The complaint
Mr J complains because Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt renew his 
personal accident insurance policy in 2020. 
All references to RSA include the agents appointed to administer the policy on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr J held a personal accident insurance policy, provided by RSA, for over 20 years. The 
policy renewed in May each year. 
In November 2019, RSA wrote to Mr J to say it wouldnt be renewing his policy in May 2020. 
Unhappy, Mr J complained to RSA before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think RSA had done 
anything wrong. Mr J didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The contract which Mr J held with RSA for personal accident cover was an annual one. The 
policy ran for one year at a time, with RSA providing cover for that year in return for the 
payment of a premium by Mr J. The terms and conditions of the policy said RSA may offer 
you the chance to renew your policy on the renewal date. So, neither RSA nor Mr J were 
under any obligation to renew the cover at the end of each policy year.
In November 2019, RSA told Mr J that it wasnt going to offer this type of cover to its 
policyholders anymore. This was a decision which RSA was entitled to make  its up to an 
insurer to decide what products it wants to offer to policyholders, taking into account factors 
such as the cost of covering different risks and its own commercial interests. 
Id expect RSA to have given Mr J reasonable notice of its decision not to renew his policy, 
to allow him the opportunity to seek alternative cover elsewhere. RSA gave Mr J more than 
six months notice that it wouldnt be renewing his policy. RSA also wrote to Mr J in March 
2020 to remind him that his policy would be ending in May 2020. Overall, Im satisfied RSA 
gave Mr J reasonable notice that it wouldnt be offering personal accident insurance to him 
any longer. 
I understand Mr J cannot obtain comparative cover at the same cost with another insurer. 
But, the availability and price of this type of cover elsewhere in the insurance market is 
outside of RSAs control. RSA doesnt have any ongoing duty to provide personal accident 
insurance to Mr J and RSA doesnt any responsibility to offer Mr J alternative cover or to 
ensure that Mr J can obtain other cover elsewhere. I note RSA provided Mr J with some 
information about where to look for alternative cover in its letter of November 2019 and I 
cant fairly say it should have done anymore than this. 
Mr J has also complained that RSA didnt reply to his complaint. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, RSA sent a final response letter to Mr J on 28 November 2019. I understand Mr J says 
he didnt receive this, but the letter was correctly addressed, and it wouldnt be fair to hold 
RSA responsible for any failings in the postal service. RSA sent Mr J another copy of its final 
response letter in March 2020 when it was made aware that Mr J hadnt received the first 
one. I understand Mr J is unhappy with the content of the letters RSA sent to him but that 
doesnt change my decision that I dont think RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances when it didnt renew Mr Js policy. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I wont be asking RSA to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman