DRN-4369907
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about Tandem Motor Finance Limiteds (Tandem) decision to lend to 
him and their response when he told them he was in financial difficulties.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement with Tandem to finance the 
purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £100 and borrowed £16,219.33 over a 60-month 
term, with monthly repayments of £433.87. 
Later the same month Mr H complained to Tandem about their lending decision. He said his 
credit file was already in an adverse state at the time the loan was approved, and said 
affordability checks werent carried out. He also complained about some of Tandems 
administration  he was unhappy about the set up of his direct debit and that theyd mixed 
up his home address and employer address. In relation to the administration points, Tandem 
upheld Mr Hs complaint about his address but not about the direct debit  they said theyd 
used the only account details Mr H had provided and set the date as his pay date in line with 
their policy. 
Tandem went on to explain how theyd decided the loan was affordable for Mr H. They said 
theyd carried out automated checks based on personal circumstances, employment status 
and credit file searches. Theyd checked Mr Hs annual salary using one of the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) tools. Theyd then carried out an assessment of Mr Hs income 
and expenditure using this income figure and his existing creditor repayments (taken from 
his credit file). They said theyd assumed Mr H paid 50% of the mortgage and bills because 
he was married and assessed his disposable income as around £1,570. On that basis their 
view was that the loan repayments of £433.87 per month were affordable. Tandem added 
that theyd have still assessed the loan as affordable if theyd included 100% of Mr Hs 
mortgage and bills.
Mr H was unhappy with Tandems reply so he came to our service. He said Tandem didnt 
do enough checks when they decided to lend to him. 
In their submissions to us, Tandem pointed out that Mr H had complained within the 14-day 
period he had to withdraw from the agreement but hadnt withdrawn. They also said Mr H 
had raised a separate complaint about Tandem not assisting him with his financial 
difficulties. In response to that complaint they offered to unwind the loan if Mr H returned the 
vehicle but he wasnt happy with this, saying he needed the car and couldnt get finance to 
swap it for a cheaper car.
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint. He said he thought Tandem had 
completed proportionate checks when deciding whether or not to lend to Mr H. And he 
thought theyd made a fair lending decision because there wasnt anything in the information 
Tandem gathered that ought to have highlighted any concerns about Mr H being able to 
repay the agreement in a sustainable way. Our investigator also commented briefly on the 
administrative points Mr H had made and on Tandems offer to unwind the loan. 
Mr H wasnt happy with our investigators view. He said the other two car finance 
agreements hed had at the time werent taken into account in the lending decision and said 
this meant he was making repayments on car finance totalling £800 a month. He added that 
the investigator hadnt considered the fact that Tandem didnt check bank statements. And 
he raised concerns about the accuracy of the income and expenditure assessment. Mr H 
asked for an ombudsmans decision  so his complaints come to me.
On 8 August 2023 I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think Tandems 
checks had been proportionate: 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Tandem carry out proportionate checks?
Mr H thinks Tandem didnt carry out a proper assessment because he doesnt understand 
how Tandem arrived at their cost of living amounts and because they didnt look at his 
bank statements. 
To be clear, CONC doesnt require lenders to look at a potential customers bank 
statements. Instead, it says a lender must determine or estimate a customers income 
and non-discretionary expenditure. CONC allows a lender to use CRA information as 
evidence of income. And it allows a lender to use statistical data to estimate non-
discretionary expenditure (unless the lender had reason to expect that expenditure to be 
significantly higher than average). So I cant say Tandem didnt carry out proportionate 
checks simply because they didnt look at Mr Hs bank statements.
The hire purchase agreement required Mr H to pay Tandem around £26,000 over five 
years. So it was a significant commitment which should have meant Tandems 
assessment was thorough. To consider whether their checks were proportionate, Ive 
thought more about what checks they did, and what those checks showed. 
Credit file
Ive looked at the credit report obtained by Tandem. In summary it shows:
Mr H had three defaulted accounts, all of them were defaulted at least five years prior 
to the lending decision. 
Mr H had nine active credit cards at the time of applying for the loan. He was making 
payments on time against most of them but had missed the last two payments on one 
of the credit cards. 
Mr Hs water account was classed as delinquent but he was up to date with the most 
recent months payments and had last missed one in June 2022.
Mr H also had a mortgage, an active hire purchase agreement, two unsecured loans, 
a mail order account, and an overdraft. There were no issues with any of these.The total repayments on Mr Hs loans were around £300 per month and his mortgage 
was £586 per month. The total balance on his credit cards, mail order account and 
overdraft was just under £10,000. 
Although Mr Hs payment history was generally good, Im inclined to say the credit file 
should have been a source of concern for Tandem. As well as his mortgage, Mr H had 
three loans and eleven revolving credit accounts. This strikes me as a high number. The 
total balance on these revolving credit accounts, at around £10,000, wasnt insignificant. 
And the issues with his water account and the two recent missed payments were 
indicators that Mr H might have had some financial difficulties. Because of this, Id expect 
Tandem to do more than their basic affordability checks and consider Mr Hs income and 
expenditure in detail.
Income and expenditure
Tandem were satisfied with the results of the CRA check on Mr Hs income. They used 
statistical data and the information from Mr Hs credit file to estimate his expenditure. 
As Ive explained above, CONC allows a lender to use this kind of data unless they had 
reason to suspect Mr Hs expenditure might differ from the average. Im inclined to say 
the fact that Mr H had so many lines of credit and had missed a couple of credit card 
payments was a reason to suspect Mr Hs expenditure might differ from the average.
In summary I dont think Tandem carried out proportionate checks given the amount and 
duration of the loan and the status of Mr Hs credit file.
I then looked at what Tandem would have found if they had carried out more checks on 
Mr Hs income and expenditure. In my provisional decision I said I thought Mr Hs monthly 
income was around £2,770 and his monthly non-discretionary expenditure was around 
£2,187. Once the payments for the new agreement (£434) had been deducted, I calculated 
this would leave Mr H with around £150 per month in disposable income. 
Finally, I looked at Mr Hs other complaint points and commented as follows:
Financial difficulties
Mr H has also complained that Tandem didnt offer any other repayment options after he 
contacted them about his financial difficulties. He wasnt happy that they offered to 
unwind the loan agreement because he needs a car and now cant get finance for a less 
expensive car. Ive thought about this aspect of Mr Hs complaint. I cant say Tandem 
have acted unfairly  their offer to unwind the loan was based on Mr H paying only the 
monthly repayments for the time he had use of the car and none of the additional charges 
for early termination that are usually associated with exiting a hire purchase agreement. 
Mr H paid a deposit of over £10,000 when he entered into the hire purchase agreement, 
so Id expect him to be able to buy a car if this was returned to him as part of unwinding 
the loan.
Ive also read through Tandems notes of their conversations with Mr H and listened to 
two call recordings from April 2023. Its clear from these that Tandem did suggest a 
number of other options to Mr H. They offered a reduced payment plan and a payment 
holiday and discussed the amount that Mr H thought might be affordable and income and 
expenditure at the time. Mr H didnt want to take up any of the suggestions because he 
was concerned about the build up of arrears which might lead to repossession of the car. 
Tandem assured him that they wouldnt repossess the car whilst waiting for an outcome 
for our service  but Mr H said he was concerned that hed build up arrears on a reduced 
payment plan and then our service might not uphold his complaint and then hed have a 
large arrears balance to clear and again risk the car being repossessed.Whilst I can understand Mr Hs concerns Im inclined to say Tandem treated him fairly. 
They suggested a number of different options to help him in the short term while we 
reviewed his complaint and said theyd look at an affordable repayment plan once that 
was done.  
Administrative issues
I havent looked into these as Mr H didnt raise them when he brought the complaint to us, 
and hasnt raised them when responding to our investigators view. So I believe this 
aspect of Mr Hs complaint to Tandem has been resolved.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision, saying his essential expenditure was higher than 
Id estimated and providing some more evidence. I considered this and agreed it showed his 
monthly expenditure was around £100 higher than Id thought previously. I emailed both 
parties on 4 September 2023 to explain that Id changed my view  this meant Mr H would 
have had only around £50 a month disposable income which I didnt think was enough to 
say the agreement was affordable for Mr H. 
Mr H accepted my revised view, but Tandem didnt. They agreed that they would conclude 
that an agreement was unaffordable if the income and expenditure assessment showed only 
£50 disposable income. But, they said, they felt they were entitled to rely on their income 
figure of £3,018, which theyd verified using one of the CRAs tools. Using this income figure 
rather than mine, theyd have decided the agreement was affordable. 
Tandem also commented on a part exchange that Mr H made at the time of buying this 
vehicle. They questioned whether Mr H part exchanged a vehicle for which the monthly 
repayments were included in my income and expenditure assessment  and said that if so, 
this expense should be excluded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party commented on whether the checks were proportionate, or the aspects of the 
provisional decision covering financial difficulties and administrative issues, so my findings 
on these elements are unchanged.
In relation to the income and expenditure assessment, I can understand Tandems point 
about the CRA verification of income  they said they were entitled to rely on it, and CONC 
does indeed allow them to do so. In Mr Hs case, he received significant amounts of 
reimbursements for work expenses and its possible this is whats led to the CRA tool 
overstating his income. 
I didnt include Mr Hs work expenses in his expenditure  because Id deducted them from 
his income. But as Tandem hadnt made this distinction when looking at Mr Hs income, 
theyd have needed to include the work expenses when looking at his non-discretionary 
expenditure. In my provisional decision, I said Id estimated his work expenses at around 
£813 per month. 
Using Tandems income figure of £3,018 and then including work expenses of £813 in my 
income and expenditure assessment would leave Mr H with disposable income of just £18 
from which to pay the £434 on this agreement  making it clearly unaffordable. 
Ive also checked on the vehicle which was part exchanged. Mr H told us it was his wifes 
car. And I can see from a more recent version of Mr Hs credit file that he is still making the £208 per month payments  which satisfies me that this car wasnt part exchanged and its 
appropriate to include this amount in the income and expenditure assessment. 
In summary, Tandems comments havent changed my mind  I still think the agreement was 
unaffordable for Mr H and if theyd done proportionate checks they couldnt reasonably have 
decided to lend to Mr H.
Putting things right
As I dont think Tandem should have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mr H has had use of the car 
for around 10 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula for 
working out what fair usage should be. However, in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive 
thought about the valuation of the car when Mr H entered into the agreement, the amount of 
interest that was charged under the agreement, the usage Mr H likely had of the car and 
what his costs to stay mobile might have been had he not entered into this agreement. In 
doing so, I think a fair amount Mr H should pay is £265 for every month he had use of the 
car. I put this figure to both Mr H and Tandem in my emails of 4 September and neither party 
has disputed it. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Tandem to retain £2,650. 
To settle Mr Hs complaint, Tandem need to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Refund all the payments Mr H has made (including the deposit), less £2,650 for fair 
usage: 
oIf Mr H has paid more than the fair usage figure, Tandem should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or; 
oIf Mr H has paid less than the fair usage figure, Tandem should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Tandem have received the fair usage amount, they should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the agreement.
If Tandem consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Mr H a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that he can reclaim 
that amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Tandem Motor Finance Limited 
need to take the steps outlined above to settle Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman