DRN-1050563
 
 
The complaint
Miss R complains that Step One Finance Limited hasn't treated her fairly during a period 
financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss R has a second charge mortgage with Step One. Her account fell into arrears when 
she lost one of her two jobs. She says that Step One didn't treat her fairly when the account 
was in arrears.
Miss R says that it declined her offer of a payment arrangement despite knowing that she 
had an ongoing employment tribunal claim and didn't offer her any other assistance. She 
also considers the arrears fees applied by Step One were unfair.
Step One said it would reverse the arrears fees for October and November 2018 as Miss R 
had made her monthly payments in those months.
Our investigator discussed the situation with Miss R and Step One and got the parties to 
agree to an arrangement which took effect from August 2019 and meant Miss R pays her 
monthly payment plus £50 to the arrears each month. I understand as at 7 May 2020 Miss R 
has kept to the agreement, so Step One is taking no further action. Our investigator said 
Step One hadn't done anything wrong when dealing with the account. Miss R didn't agree 
and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ours is an informal dispute resolution 
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
There's no doubt that Miss R was going through a very difficult time. It can't have been easy 
for her at all, contending with her financial pressures whilst preparing for an employment 
tribunal.
Miss R said "They have not considered reducing my payments so that they are affordable 
which is a requirement of the protocol." I think Miss R has misunderstood what the pre-
action protocol actually says. There's no requirement in it for a lender to take any particular 
course of action, such as reducing the payments. The pre-action protocol requires a lender 
to normally only start a possession claim if all other reasonable attempts to resolve the 
situation have failed. It goes on to say the parties should consider whether various forms of 
forbearance (such as changing the type of mortgage, or deferring interest, for example) 
would be appropriate bearing in mind the borrower's individual circumstances.Here Step One did consider different options but unfortunately there were various barriers. 
Initially Miss R didn't supply the information that was needed, then the income and 
expenditure information showed no payment was affordable. A lender can only put a 
payment plan in place if it's satisfied the plan will be affordable, so when Miss R was shown 
to have higher outgoings than income Step One's hands were tied. Later Miss R's income 
and expenditure information showed she could not only afford the full monthly payment, but 
could also make a payment towards the arrears. So again a reduced payment would be 
entirely inappropriate in those circumstances.
As there wasn't a payment arrangement in place Step One moved things to litigation. Whilst 
our investigator managed to mediate a payment plan in the days before the court hearing, by 
then some legal costs had already been incurred. Under the terms of the contract those 
costs are passed to Miss R. Having considered everything I'm satisfied Step One didn't 
commence the litigation prematurely, and therefore I don't order the legal costs be refunded. 
I'm also satisfied the arrears fees that remain on the account were fairly charged in line with 
the terms and conditions of Miss R's account, so I also don't order any more of those be 
refunded.
Once the mortgage was in arrears Step One was entitled to take steps to recover the money 
owed to it. Contacting Miss R to discuss the level of arrears on the account is a legitimate 
action that Step One was entitled to take. Ive looked at the level of contact on the account 
and I cant say that Step One treated Miss R unfairly or that it harassed her; Step One has 
an obligation to keep Miss R informed about the status of her account.
We can only consider issues that Step One has already looked into and had the chance to 
respond to. So I can't consider here Miss R's concerns about not being told a call was being 
recorded. If Miss R would like Step One to look into that issue then shell need to raise it with 
Step One directly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman