DRN-3338437
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in December 2021 that I summarise 
below.
Miss W was given two logbook loans by Loans2Go in 2018 and 2019. The loans were
secured against a vehicle that she owned.
Loan 1 in March 2018 was for £300 repayable in 12 monthly instalments of around 
£58. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was around 
£696.
Loan 2 of £250, taken in March 2019, was repayable in 18 monthly instalments of 
around £57. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was 
around £1, 028.
I understand the first loan has been repaid but the debt in respect of the second loan has
been sold to a third party.
Miss W complained that Loans2Go failed to carry out proper checks and that the loans were
unaffordable for her.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure.  I said that Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't 
lend to Miss W irresponsibly. And that Loans2Go should have carried out proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that she could repay the loans in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Id seen about this
matter in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Loans2Go assessed Miss Ws monthly income and expenditure and acquired a credit check
prior to each loan. Loans2Go says the amounts being borrowed and the monthly
repayments were relatively low, and that Miss W could afford the lending each time.
Loans2Go says it was aware that Miss W had an active CCJ, but that given the type of
lending, it would expect to see some adverse information on a customers credit report and
that to have asked Miss W to provide further information would have meant that it was
treating her unfairly.
However, I thought Loans2Go ought reasonably to have been aware from the credit report it
acquired prior to loan 1 that, as well as her outstanding CCJ, Miss W had been experiencing
some difficulties repaying credit on other accounts in the months leading up to the loan and
that her monthly repayment obligations to existing creditors may have been more than she
had estimated in her application. The repayments to Loans2Go were relatively low, but I 
thought in the particular circumstances, Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that for 
its checks to be reasonable and proportionate, it should look further into Miss Ws financial 
position  for example by asking to see bank statements  in order to satisfy itself that she 
could sustainably repay her loan over the whole loan term.
Miss W took out a second loan as soon as she had repaid the first. From what Id seen, her
financial position doesnt appear to have substantially improved and she appears to have
experienced difficulties repaying the second loan from the outset. The amount being 
borrowed was relatively low, but this was a high interest loan, repayable over an extended 
period. Overall, I thought Loans2Go ought to have gone further with its checks for
the second loan to ensure that Miss W could repay the loan sustainably over the whole loan
term.
But from the evidence Id seen, its not clear to me whether better checks by Loans2Go
each time would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Miss W might have
difficulty repaying either loan in a sustainable manner. I thought about whether the checks
that Loans2Go did carry out each time ought reasonably to have led it to decline to lend to
Miss W on either occasion. On balance, I didnt think they did.
Without additional information, I could not say what better checks by Loans2Go would have
shown when Miss W applied for either loan. And from what Id seen, I could not fairly say 
that I thought the lender ought simply to have declined either loan application based on the
information it did gather.
Miss W had been asked to provide her bank statements by this service, but she doesnt
appear to have been able to do so. So although I thought the lender should have done more 
to check Miss Ws true financial position before it agreed either loan, I could not fairly say 
that Loans2Go shouldnt have lent to Miss W or that it lent to her irresponsibly on either
occasion. 
Id not seen anything to make me think that Loans2Go had treated Miss W unfairly in some 
other way.
So I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint about either loan as I hadn't seen enough 
evidence to say that better checks in respect of these loans would have led to either loan 
being declined.
I invited both parties to send me further evidence or comment. Loans2Go told us it accepted 
my provisional decision. Miss Ws representative asked for more time to provide bank 
statements, but Ive not seen any new information from them or Miss W and the extended 
deadline for providing further evidence has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.I know Miss W will be disappointed by my decision.  But Id like to reassure her that I have 
carefully considered everything that both she and Loans2Go have told us and all the 
information that has been provided about this matter. Having done so, I do not uphold Miss 
Ws complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Loans 
2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman