DRN-2650922
The complaint
Mr P has complained National Westminster Bank Plc wont do anything to help after a 
payment of £30,000 was sent to the wrong account in January 2015.
What happened
Mr P had a fixed rate bond with NatWest. £220,000 was invested. His bond was due to 
mature on 23 December 2014. This would automatically be reinvested in another one-year 
bond unless Mr P contacted NatWest to confirm otherwise.
£220,000 credited Mr Ps select account on 23 December 2014. He held a meeting with 
NatWest on 21 January 2015. Two transfers were made. £160,000 was then transferred to 
another of Mr Ps accounts and £30,000 was transferred to an overseas account held in 
Mr Ps name.  
Mr P believed hed spent a lot of the intervening period trying to find out what had happened 
to his money as it wasnt in his overseas account. In January 2020 he went into his local 
branch to complain that hed never authorised this payment to his overseas account. 
NatWest confirmed that according to their records £30,000 was sent to exactly the same 
account  held by Mr P  at an overseas bank. Mr P had previously sent £10,000 to this 
same account on 2 January 2014.  
Mr P was unhappy about this and brought his complaint to our service. When we asked for 
further details from NatWest they told us they believed they could rely on the clause within 
the Payment Services Regulations 2009 which stated Mr P had to notify NatWest within 
13 months of the disputed transaction.
After reviewing the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account, our investigator agreed that this 
clause had to be considered. On this basis he couldnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P was insistent hed been into his branch regularly before January 2020 to complain 
about this transaction. He provided additional evidence to show he met with NatWest on 
21 January 2015. He also told us about this branch visit but couldnt explain how a £30,000 
transfer had been made.
As he believed he has raised a complaint with NatWest within the required timescale, he 
asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
The key aspect for me to consider is when I believe Mr P first raised his concern about this 
transfer with NatWest. Im afraid Ive seen no evidence to suggest this was raised before his 
visit in January 2020.
Mr P insists he did. But I dont understand why  if that were the case  NatWest hadnt 
written to him then as they did to follow up his visit in January 2020. This is a serious amount 
of money and Id expect even any casual mention of his concern to an employee in a branch 
to register further action. Theres no evidence  and NatWest has searched relevant records 
 that this happened.
Im also sure that Mr P couldnt have raised this on a regular basis. If he had, Id be confident 
that NatWest would have picked it up and this would be reflected in other records that 
NatWest has reviewed. So I wonder if Mr P was concerned about the money that he didnt 
follow this up much earlier.
So overall I dont believe Mr P notified NatWest about a transaction for £30,000 he believes 
he didnt authorise or make before January 2020.
As our investigator explained, regulation 59 of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 only 
entitles a customer to redress for unauthorised  or incorrectly executed  transactions if the 
dispute is raised within 13 months of the original transaction. NatWests terms and 
conditions adopted this regulation as section 4.5.3 applicable to Mr Ps account durings the 
relevant time period. These were laid out in full in our investigators view of 28 October 2020.
Ive considered whether there are any grounds  on a fair and reasonable basis  for me to 
consider this shouldnt apply to Mr Ps situation. But I havent seen anything which would 
apply.
I appreciate Mr P believes hes lost a great deal of money and didnt make this transaction 
himself. But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman