DRN-4361108
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were told fees and charges would not be higher once they 
moved their investment under a discretionary investment management service with Cardale 
Asset Management Limited (Cardale).  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held pensions and investments through a discretionary service, with an 
advisor at a previous provider. 
Mr and Mrs S say that this advisor moved to Cardale in November 2017, and they were 
recommended to move their holdings to a discretionary service through him at Cardale. 
In November 2021, Mr S complained to Cardale that he was told that he would not incur any 
higher charges following the transfer. He complained after seeing information which he says 
showed he was now paying more. 
Cardale responded to Mr and Mrs S. They said that the documentation provided at the time 
of the transfer showed that additional charges would apply. 
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our service for an 
independent review. An investigator looked into it and he felt that the evidence provided 
showed that the charges had been made clear and that Mr and Mrs S should have been 
aware of any increase. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said that they had been categorically told the charges 
wouldnt be higher. They also said that the charge information was not prominent in the 
documentation and that they had been rushed into signing it, without having a proper 
opportunity to digest what was said. 
As no agreement was reached. The case has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Let me explain 
why. 
In giving this advice in 2017, Cardale had certain obligations towards Mr and Mrs S. As well 
as making sure they gave suitable recommendations, they needed to ensure that they gave 
clear, fair and not misleading information. 
Mr and Mrs S have said they were told that charges would not be higher after moving their 
investments to Cardales discretionary service. Whilst I acknowledge and appreciate this 
testimony, I have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. And there is 
nothing else documented to evidence that they were told this. 
Page 11 of the suitability report generated when Mr and Mrs S were advised to move to 
Cardale, states the ongoing and initial charges that would apply. These show the charges 
higher than the ongoing charges Mr and Mrs S were already paying. I feel the document is 
very clear in what the charges would be. 
The report also states that to achieve your specified objectives, there will be certain 
disadvantages. This includes under Charges, that there would be additional ongoing 
charges of circa £684 per annum for Mr S, and additional ongoing charges of circa £262 for 
Mrs S. 
I am satisfied based on the available evidence, that Mr and Mrs S were made aware of the 
increased charges that would apply. I appreciate that Mr S has said that these werent as 
prominent as in literature with their previous provider. However, I think it is clear enough.   
Mr S has said that he was rushed through a presentation of this information before he 
needed to sign to confirm he had read it. However, whilst I wasnt present and cant confirm 
if this happened, I believe Mr and Mrs S had enough opportunity to read and digest this 
information and could have made use of subsequent cancellation rights if they werent 
happy. 
In summary, I think Cardale did enough to make the additional initial and ongoing charges 
clear to Mr and Mrs S. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman