DRN-3880259
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In November 2018, Mr Bs Santander account received a transfers totalling £1,415.00 from a 
third-party. The funds were withdrawn at a series of cash machines. Shortly afterwards, 
Santander received a notification from the bank which sent the payments stating that the 
payer of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Santander reviewed Mr Bs account, 
decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr B.
Upon subsequently learning of the fraud marker, Mr B complained. Santander looked at        
Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr B remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr B allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive 
an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr B initially said that he was asked to receive some money by a friend whom he went to 
college with. The friend said the funds were from his cousin and Mr B would then withdraw 
for him. Mr B says he agreed to do this and withdrew the funds from a cash machine shortly 
afterwards. The messages discussing this were exchanged on social media and Mr B no 
longer has any copies of them because hes since deleted all of his social media.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said. But Im afraid Mr Bs inability to provide anything to 
corroborate his version of events makes it difficult to place much weight on what he is 
saying. I realise that these events took place some time ago and that this could explain why 
Mr B no longer has any relevant social media messages from the time discussing this 
activity. 
However, Santander got in touch with Mr B to discuss this matter a couple of weeks after the 
activity took place. So I think he ought to have known that any messages would be important 
to clearing up any misunderstanding and I dont think it is unreasonable for him to have 
provided the messages at that time. 
Furthermore, while I appreciate that Mr B feels he wasnt spoken to as a customer, given an 
allegation of fraudulent activity had been made, I do think that Santander was required to 
treat this matter seriously. And it was under an obligation to investigate this.   
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account. And given Mr B has said he 
provided his account details, withdrew the funds and doesnt have anything to corroborate 
him having been unwittingly tricked into doing so, Santander was also reasonably entitled to 
conclude that it was more likely than not Mr B was complicit in this. As this is the case, I 
dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr B 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman