DRN-3684932
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled international transfers.
What happened
Mr H instructed Nationwide to make a Swift transfer $175,000 to a recipient in the US. Mr H 
input the transfer information into online and Nationwide processed the transfer. But the 
transfer was picked up for further checks by Nationwide which contacted Mr H for further 
information. The transfer was approved on 8 June 2021 and £126,280.85 was taken from Mr 
Hs account. 
The transfer wasnt received so Nationwide initiated a trace. On 13 July 2021 £126,313.90 
was credited to Mr Hs account. 
Mr H instructed another transfer for $175,000 the same day and £129,332.64 was debited 
from his account. But Mr H contacted Nationwide to query information used in the transfer 
request and it was ultimately recalled. When the funds were sent back to Mr Hs account on 
6 August 2021 he received £125,661.52. 
A final transfer of $175,000 was successfully instructed for £129,141.76 on 11 August 2021 
and the funds were received the following day.
Mr H complained to Nationwide during the transfer process and it issued a final response. 
Nationwides final response said the first transfer had been returned due to a keying error by 
a member of staff. Nationwide paid Mr H £100 to apologise. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint. They thought Nationwide had 
dealt with it fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. In its submissions, Nationwide told us 
the final response it sent Mr H was wrong and that no keying errors had been made during 
the first transfer. Mr H asked to appeal and said Nationwide had accepted it made an error 
with the first transfer. Mr H also said Nationwide had failed to revert to him once it had found 
out what happened to his transfer and returned the sterling funds to him against his 
instructions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties involved 
and Ive done so in my own words. I want to assure both parties that Ive read and 
considered all the information provided in reaching my decision. Im not going to respond to 
every point made by all the parties. No discourtesy is intended by my approach. Ive focused 
on what I think are the key issues in this complaint. 
My approach is in line with the informal nature of this service as a free alternative to the 
courts and the rules we operate under. If I havent mentioned something it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every argument made to be 
able to reach what I think is the fairest outcome. 
Mr H has told us he made many calls to Nationwide over the weeks it took for the transfer to 
go through. I understand weve only got a limited number of calls available and I dont doubt 
that some were made that werent recorded. Mr H says he was told by Nationwide that any 
losses he suffered as a result of a mistake with the transfer process would be covered. 
Whilst I accept Nationwide may have told Mr H it would cover losses that came about as a 
result of its error, I wouldnt expect it to do so if no mistake was made. 
Ive seen all the different payment instructions Mr H submitted. Nationwide told Mr H it made 
a mistake when keying the first transfer, but the evidence Ive seen shows that isnt the case. 
All the details used by Nationwide when keying the transfer match the instruction it received. 
Nationwide checked with Mr H that he wanted to proceed with the instruction and confirmed. 
So whilst I accept Nationwides final response said the error was its responsibility, the 
evidence shows thats not the case. 
Nationwide has confirmed the first transfer was returned by the receiving bank because the 
beneficiary account details were wrong. The information Ive seen shows Nationwide 
processed the first transfer in line with its instructions so Im unable to agree it was 
responsible for it being returned. 
Mr H has told us he wanted Nationwide to contact him before converting the USD back to 
GBP as he didnt want the funds to be credited back to his account. But when a payment 
cant be paid to the intended beneficiary a new instruction is required with the correct details. 
So Im satisfied Nationwide was following the right process when sending the funds back to 
Mr Hs account. 
Mr H has told us he called Nationwide after the second transfer was instructed as it 
contained mistakes. And the payment was again returned to Mr Hs account once recalled. 
But because of shifts in exchange rate, Mr H got back less than he sent. Whilst I understand 
Mr H lost out as a result, the information doesnt show that the second transfer was returned 
as a result of a mistake by Nationwide. As a result, I havent found grounds to tell Nationwide 
to cover Mr Hs loss. 
Nationwide sent Mr H secure messages via its online banking facility. Mr H has told us he 
doesnt think this is reasonable. But when Nationwide received Mr Hs transfer instructions it 
gave information that asked him to monitor his online bank messages in case more 
information is required. Im satisfied Nationwide advised it would make follow up contact 
about the transfers via its secure messaging service. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H but as Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with his complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman