DRN-1882881
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.                          
What happened
This complaint is about 20 loans Sunny provided to Mr W. The amounts borrowed ranged 
between £50 and £300  with most of Mr Ws borrowing falling in-between. 
Heres a table showing details of the first 10 loans: 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
Amount
1 24/04/2018 08/08/2018 6 £250.00
2 06/05/2018 08/08/2018 6 £200.00
3 03/06/2018 29/06/2018 6 £50.00
4 02/07/2018 08/08/2018 6 £150.00
5 09/08/2018 31/08/2018 6 £100.00
6 09/08/2018 31/08/2018 6 £50.00
7 10/08/2018 30/09/2018 6 £150.00
8 11/08/2018 30/09/2018 6 £150.00
9 03/09/2018 28/09/2018 6 £50.00
10 04/09/2018 30/09/2018 6 £100.00
 
Sunny gave Mr W a further 10 loans between October 2018 and March 2019. As far as I am 
aware, Mr W hasnt yet paid loans 15, 18 and 20.Mr W said that Sunny didn't check these loans were affordable for him. He told us that he 
had to borrow money from his family and partner to repay his Sunny loans and hes been left 
short of money he needs to be able to provide for himself.
Our adjudicator investigated and came to the overall view that loans 1-5 hadnt been unfair. 
But he said Mr Ws pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 6 onwards Mr W had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans so Sunny shouldnt have given Mr W loan 6 
or any of the loans that followed. Our adjudicator set out the steps he said Sunny should 
take to put things right for Mr W.
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators view although it made a goodwill offer to uphold 
loans 19 and 20. And when Mr W declined this offer Sunny reconsidered its position and told 
us it was willing to partially uphold the complaint from loan 15-20.
We passed this information on to Mr W. But as the offer falls short of what our adjudicator 
recommended Mr W would like an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Looking at the first five loans Mr W took out, I agree with our adjudicator about why we 
wouldn't uphold Mr Ws complaint about these loans. And as it seems Mr W hasnt objected 
to what our adjudicator has said about these, then I don't think I need say more about loans 
1-5.
I do think Sunny should have looked further into Mr Ws circumstances when he took out 
loans 6 and 7, given his continuing loan requests  and particularly since loans 5 and 6 were 
outstanding when he applied for loan 7. However, I havent seen anything in the information 
available to me which shows Sunny would have decided not to agree these loans had it 
done so. 
But I think that by loan 8, Sunny shouldve seen that it was clear from looking at Mr Cs 
borrowing history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 8, Mr W already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny - loans 5, 6 and 7. And now he was asking for further borrowing. 
This suggests to me that Mr W was finding it hard to get on top of his money problems and 
his financial difficulties were likely ongoing  and escalating.  
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Mr Ws borrowing record painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. And despite 
what hed told Sunny about his finances, it showed that Mr W was having serious problems 
managing his money. So Sunny shouldve seen that the indications were that loan 8  and 
any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr W. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 10. I say this because:
Mr W wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably. By now, this was the sixth 
consecutive month that hed been borrowing from Sunny  and although the loan 
amounts varied, he wasnt making any overall inroads into his debt 
 
when he took out loan 10 Mr W still had three other outstanding short term loans with 
Sunny (loans 7, 8 and 9)
 all these loans were set up to be repaid over a period of around six months  
possibly to keep down the cost of the weekly repayments 
 
although he repaid his loans earlier than the agreed term, successfully repaying his 
loans doesnt mean Mr W managed to do so in a sustainable way
 
Sunny could see that by now, Mr W had an established record of paying loans early 
and quickly borrowing again. He paid loan 3 early and took out loan 4 just a couple of 
days later. He paid loans 1, 2 and 4 early  and took out loans 5 and 6 the next day. 
He paid loans 5 and 6 and then took out loan 9 just 3 days later. Taking out multiple 
loans like this suggests to me that Mr W was struggling to manage his debt in a well 
planned way
 
and borrowing and repaying this number of loans early makes me think that Mr Ws 
finances werent in a stable position - likely because he was struggling to manage 
financially after paying loans.
 
this borrowing pattern would suggest that Mr W couldnt afford to pay back what he 
had borrowed without borrowing again and he likely wasn't using these loans for their 
intended purpose. 
 
so it wasnt reasonable of Sunny to think his situation was improving and Mr W was 
now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan - rather this 
pattern of borrowing suggested he had ongoing money problems 
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely that Mr W was borrowing further to 
cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving in his finances. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view  but for the reasons I've explained, this doesn't affect my overall view 
about this complaint. 
I think that Mr W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 10 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
 
the number of loans which Mr W borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. And any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to his credit 
rating.
 
So overall, Im planning on upholding the complaint from (and including) loan 8 onwards.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision Mr W told us he was happy with what Id said in my provisional decision.
Sunny has acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but not commented further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right  what Sunny should do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to 
step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr W.
 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ws credit file for loans 8 and 9. The number of 
loans taken from the point of loan 10 means any information recorded about this loan 
and the loans that followed is adverse. So all entries about loans 10 - 20 should be 
removed from Mr Ws credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about loans 8 -20 and direct Elevate Credit International Limited 
(trading as Sunny) to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman