DRN-3480731
The complaint
Mr and Ms P complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with their request for a 
refund of the premiums they paid for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms P purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great 
Lakes. The policy was purchased on 31 January 2020, to cover any trips of up to 35 days 
duration taken within Europe. The policy started on 1 February 2020 and ended on 31 
January 2021.
Mr and Ms P paid £106.90 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a number of declared 
medical conditions. They received a discount of £23.10 at the point of sale. In total, Mr and 
Ms P paid £105.19 for their policy including IPT.
On 27 October 2020, Mr and Ms P contacted Great Lakes to request a refund of their travel 
insurance premium because they said theyd been unable to travel as theyd intended due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. They also requested an extension of their policy in the alternative. 
Great Lakes said it couldnt extend Mr and Ms Ps policy. And it informed them that a full 
refund couldnt be provided as their cooling off period had expired. It said that, under the 
terms of their policy, no refund was due. But it offered a credit voucher pro rata refund of 
£10.90, which it said could be to purchase either a deferred annual policy, a new policy of 15 
months for the price of 12 or a UK only annual multi trip policy in the alternative. Great Lakes 
also offered Mr and Ms P a 20% discount off the basic premium of any new policy. 
Being dissatisfied with Great Lakes offer, Mr and Ms P complained to our service. After they 
referred their complaint to us, Great Lakes increased the value of the credit voucher from 
£10.90 to £27.88. 
Mr and Ms Ps complaint was considered by our investigator, who acknowledged the unique 
and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 1 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they thought Great Lakes offer to settle Mr and Ms Ps complaint was fair and 
reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr and Ms P didnt. 
They requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Are Mr and Ms P entitled to a full refund of the premium?  
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr and Ms P to receive a refund 
of the premiums they paid because: 
Cover under their policy commenced on 1 February 2020, which is confirmed by the 
insurance validation certificate they received. Im satisfied Mr and Ms P were 
reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of 
the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
Mr and Ms P didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss a refund of their policy until 27 
October 2020. And they didnt request the cancellation of their policy at any time. 
Even if they had done during their conversation on 27 October 2020, this would have 
been outside the cooling off period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say 
this because its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
I understand why any travel plans which Mr and Ms P might have had during the 
policy year changed due to circumstances beyond their control. So, Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry 
rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Ms Ps contract because of the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr 
and Ms Ps contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy 
started on 1 February 2020.Mr and Ms P were insured from 1 February 2020 for travelling on any number of trips 
of up to 35 days duration which they may have taken until the policy expired. Theyve 
said they didnt have the opportunity of travelling due to the pandemic. But, because 
of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing 
how many such trips a policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Ms P for cancellation of any holidays 
which they had booked and were due to take from 1 February 2020 until 31 January 
2021. So, they would have been covered if theyd had to cancel any number of 
holidays because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, 
them falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr and Ms P making a successful cancellation 
claim for any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number 
of holidays, from 1 February 2020 until 31 January 2021. Its a fundamental principle 
of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr 
and Ms Ps cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered.
Was it fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher?
Ive already explained the reasons Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any 
premium to Mr and Ms P. But it used its discretion to initially offer them a 20% 
discount towards the cost of another travel insurance policy together with a credit 
voucher in the sum of £10.90.
Following Mr and Ms P referring their complaint to our service, Great Lakes agreed to 
increase its credit voucher refund offer. It isnt prepared to offer a cash settlement.
Great Lakes has stated that the voucher is valid for use within 36 months and is also 
transferrable. Our service would typically view a voucher as a fair resolution to this 
complaint because the validity period provides a reasonable period within which a 
consumer can use it towards future travel insurance policies they may wish to take 
out and the terms of use arent unreasonably restrictive.
I can appreciate why Mr and Ms P may prefer a pro-rata monetary refund as an 
alternative to a credit voucher. Theyve said they spent some of the pandemic 
shielding and I can see that they declared pre-existing health conditions when they 
took out the policy. But they were prepared to travel in 2020 with the health 
conditions they declared to Great Lakes. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that their health has deteriorated to the point that it might preclude future travel.
So, based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that there are any 
exceptional circumstances that persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata 
monetary refund. And, in offering a credit voucher when it wasnt obliged to, Great 
Lakes has departed from industry rules and the terms of its policy to the benefit of Mr 
and Ms P because of the unanticipated and unforeseen events surrounding the 
global Covid-19 pandemic. 
Is the calculation of the refund fair and reasonable?
Ive carefully looked at whether the amount offered by Great Lakes to Mr and Ms P 
was fair and reasonable. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr and Ms P contacted Great 
Lakes on 27 October 2020 to request a refund of their policy premium. By this time, 
their policy had 97 days left to run before it expired.  
Mr and Ms P dont think the refund theyve been offered is fair. But I think Great 
Lakes has acted reasonably here because its treated the date Mr and Ms P first 
contacted it in the same way it would have done had they requested the cancellation 
of their policy at that time.
Ive already explained that Mr and Ms P didnt cancel their policy at any time. So, it 
wouldnt be unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline to refund any of the premium Mr 
and Mr P paid.
If Mr and Ms P had requested that Great Lakes cancel their policy on 27 October 
2020, theyd have been on cover for around 269 days. Initially Great Lakes offered to 
refund Mr and Ms P £10.90 by way of a credit voucher. However, after they referred 
their complaint to our service, it offered to increase the credit voucher to £27.88. This 
presents a change in Great Lakes initial proposed resolution to Mr and Ms Ps 
complaint.
Ive carefully checked the calculation Great Lakes has provided. And Im satisfied its 
correct. I say this because Ive seen evidence showing that the refund amount 
offered was based on the length of time Mr and Ms Ps policy had left to run at the 
time they contacted Great Lakes to discuss a refund  even though they didnt cancel 
their policy at that point and Great Lakes therefore continued to bear a risk until 31 
January 2021. 
I understand Mr and Ms P rejected Great Lakes settlement offer. Had they accepted 
it, this would have resulted in Great Lakes cancelling Mr and Ms Ps policy, which still 
had just over 3 months left to run. Great Lakes has confirmed that the refund it 
offered is still available to Mr and Ms P if they wish to accept it. I think the revised 
offer Great Lakes made after Mr and Ms P referred their complaint to our service is 
both fair and reasonable. So, Im persuaded that Great Lakes should send Mr and 
Ms P a credit voucher in the sum of £27.88 to resolve this complaint. 
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should refund Mr and Ms P £27.88 by credit voucher 
for the reasons outlined above
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mr and Ms Ps complaint, 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman