DRN-3687990
The complaint
Mr W complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reimbursed him for funds 
his lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr W authorised the disputed payments he made to the genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange using his debit card (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer). The payments were requested by him and so the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has 
a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
I appreciate that Mr W sent over £24,000 to this scam, which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single, large or out of character transaction. 
It was spread over nine separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, wouldnt 
have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ws 
spending history; combined with the fact this was a known payee by the time he sent 
larger payments. So Im not persuaded that NatWest ought to have intervened; or 
regarded the payments as suspicious, or indicating that he might have been at risk of 
falling victim to a scam. 
For example Mr W sent a payment of £1,000, followed by a payment of £2,000, then a 
payment of £3,500 to the genuine cryptocurrency exchange, all on separate days, with 
the third payment weeks later. So he gradually increased his spending to a genuine firm. 
And he paid in amounts to cover these transactions in advance. So, having considered 
the payments Mr W made to the cryptocurrency exchange, Im not persuaded there was 
anything that ought reasonably to have triggered NatWests fraud monitoring systems in 
this case. 
Ive also thought about whether NatWest couldve done more to recover the funds after 
Mr W reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a chargeback is a 
voluntary scheme run by card providers. That process is subject to the rules of the 
scheme and we wouldnt expect a bank to pursue matters to final arbitration if there was 
no prospect of success.
In these circumstances, Mr W used his debit card to pay a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, hes 
unlikely to be able to make a successful chargeback claim, because the service would 
be considered provided (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I dont think 
NatWest has acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman