DRN-3301052
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Retail Limited mis-sold a motor insurance policy to him and also 
provided poor service.
What happened
Mr S used a comparison website to select a policy. He was transferred to Ageass website 
and says he wasnt made aware of an exclusion for driving other cars (DOC) cover before 
paying for the policy. Mr S says he chose not to set up an account online with Ageas, and 
that it didnt initially send him any policy documents by post. When Ageas later provided his 
certificate of insurance, Mr S noted that it was signed by Ageass former chief executive, so 
in his opinion it wasnt valid and he had no insurance.
One of our investigators dealt with Mr Ss complaint. He said an insurer is entitled to issue 
documents online, as it sees fit, and that it isnt an issue we can address. He also said he 
wasnt able to deal with the concerns Mr S had raised in a previous complaint to Ageas, 
given the time that had passed since its final response to that complaint. The investigator 
noted that the DOC exclusion was brought to Mr Ss attention before he bought the policy, 
and that Ageas had confirmed the certificate of insurance was valid. In his view, the 
signature on it had no impact on Mr S. He also noted that Ageas had accepted that Mr S 
was worried about the issue, and he thought it had acted fairly by offering him £50. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Ageas has shown that Mr S was told about the lack of DOC cover on the policy before 
he bought it. The screenshots provided show that he was asked to review the terms of 
business (including the fees paid by the insurer). He was also asked to check that the details 
hed provided were correct (as the policy cover would be  based on them) and to check the 
cover that was to be provided was suitable. At that point, Mr S hadnt yet paid for the policy. 
Mr S would have had to use drop-down options in order to make the checks as advised, but 
the screenshot shows that a statement highlighting the policy had no DOC cover was there. 
Mr S didnt have to do anything to see that statement, although it seems he didnt notice it at 
the time. I dont think Mr S has shown that the policy was mis-sold. I think he had the option 
of not going ahead with the purchase if having DOC cover was important to him. Mr S wasnt 
aware there was an age restriction on DOC cover straight away, as he hadnt read the policy 
documents, but hed been advised before the sale that it wasnt provided. So I think Mr S 
should have been aware of the lack of that cover. 
Mr S thought the DOC exclusion also meant that if he had to use a courtesy car whilst his 
own car was repaired (which didnt occur) he wouldnt be insured for it. Ageas told him that 
wasnt the case. Its standard industry practice for cover to be extended to courtesy cars, 
and I dont think Mr S has shown that he has reason to doubt Ageass assurance. 
   
I can see why Mr S was troubled by the signature on the certificate of insurance. Ageas has 
explained that it was in the process of changing it, but that it took longer than expected. It 
said regardless of the signature, Mr Ss policy was valid, so cover would have been provided 
had he needed to rely on it. Mr S doesnt believe thats the case. He believes he drove 
uninsured for a year. But he hasnt provided any evidence in support of his belief, nor has he 
shown that he was affected adversely by this issue. I think Ageas acted fairly in offering Mr S 
£50 to acknowledge his concern about the signature (plus the fact that a letter addressed to 
the chief executive wasnt passed to him at the time).
We arent able to instruct an insurer how to organise its business, which includes the way in 
which it normally provides documents to consumers. Most insurers now offer an online 
facility for viewing documents and encourage consumers to use it - but theyre still willing to 
provide them by post or email, as requested. 
Mr S says after buying the policy he waited for the documents to arrive and assumed they 
were delayed in the post - although as far as I can see, there was no mention of the 
documents being issued except online. He says Ageas imposed on him the obligation to 
create an online account in order to read or download the policy documents, which he would 
never have agreed to do if asked. But I dont think Mr S was limited to that option, as Ageas 
will issue documents by other means on request. 
Its open to Mr S to raise his concerns about the way Ageas conducts its business with the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. But I dont think hes shown that Ageas 
acted unreasonably in relation to the issues hes raised here, so I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman