DRN-1948668
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the fact that his travel insurer AWP P&C SA (AWP) turned 
down a claim he made on his policy.
 
All references to AWP include its agents. 
What happened
Mr W said that on 7 January 2019 he booked a holiday abroad for May the same year and 
that he took out travel insurance at the same time. He said that about a week later he was 
diagnosed with a condition that causes inflammation to his blood vessels and was advised 
by his doctor not to travel.
Mr W then cancelled his holiday and made a claim to AWP for the cost of his flights which 
came to around £1100. AWP looked into the claim but ultimately rejected it. It said this was 
because, according to Mr Ws GP, his symptoms started in December 2018- before the 
holiday was booked. It said this meant his condition was pre-existing and, therefore, 
excluded under the policy. 
Mr W didnt agree and complained to us. Our investigator thought the complaint should be 
upheld and didnt think there was any evidence to suggest that Mr Ws diagnosis was linked 
to a pre-existing condition. He said that though Mr Ws GP initially said the symptoms started 
in December 2018, he later wrote to AWP to clarify that this was written in error and that the 
symptoms didnt actually start until January 2019, after the flights were booked and the 
policy taken out. Our investigator thought AWP should reassess the claim.
AWP didnt agree and said the medical certificate completed by Mr Ws GP said that Mr W 
had first experienced symptoms in December 2018 as a result of which his GP referred him 
for an appointment at a specialist clinic which took place in January 2019. AWP said this 
meant that Mr W booked his holiday while he was awaiting his hospital consultation to 
investigate the cause of his symptoms. Mr W said the condition he saw his GP about in 
December 2018 was not related to the present one and that he had that condition for years. 
AWP said it wanted to obtain further details from Mr Ws GP regarding the previous condition 
to check whether it was related to the present one or not. It said the first certificate 
completed by Mr Ws GP mentioned referral to a renal/ENT specialist. AWP said it chased 
the GP for a response on a few occasions but hadnt had a reply. It said it had no option but 
to ask for an ombudsmans decision.
Before I issued this decision, we went back to AWP to say that I was considering asking it to 
pay the claim rather than to reassess it. We said this was because it hadnt been able to 
provide any evidence to show that the diagnosis was linked to a pre-existing condition since 
our investigator provided his view. And also because I was not aware of any other reason 
why the claim would be rejected again. We initially gave AWP a week to provide its 
comments. AWP received our correspondence but didnt provide any relevant comments in 
response. Our investigator called AWP and gave it a further five days to provide any 
comments it wished to make. This deadline has now passed. As I think I have provided AWP 
with enough time to respond I am now proceeding with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it .
Under the cancellation section the policy says that there is cover of up to £3000 in total for 
claims, which may include travel expenses, in the event that a cancellation is made due to 
the insured being seriously ill. 
The policy also excludes any directly or indirectly related claims if, at the time of taking out 
the policy or booking the holiday, the insured had received treatment or had a consultation 
for any medical condition in the past 12 months; or was being referred to or treated by or 
under the care of a doctor or a hospital specialist; or awaiting treatment or the results of tests 
or investigations. It also says the insured wont be covered if they are awaiting medical 
treatment or consultation at any medical facility or were under investigation for a medical 
condition when the policy was issued. 
Ive seen a letter from the doctor who diagnosed Mr W, advising him not to travel. So I am 
satisfied that it was reasonable for him to cancel his holiday. And as far as I know AWP 
hasnt disputed this either.
When Mr W made his claim, AWP asked for his doctor to complete a medical certificate. 
This was completed by the hospital doctor who gave him his diagnosis who said this was a 
new diagnosis and was made in January 2019- after the flights were booked. 
AWP said the certificate should be completed by Mr Ws GP instead which I think is 
reasonable bearing in mind Mr Ws GP would be more familiar with his medical history. The 
form itself also states it should be completed by the insureds GP. 
After AWP rejected Mr Ws claim he complained and said he has been under a specialist 
consultant since 2013 for an unrelated condition. He said it wasnt until he went for a follow 
up appointment for that condition in January 2019 that he was told about this new condition 
and that he needed urgent treatment. He said he was not waiting for any treatment for this 
new condition when he booked his flight and also that he was first diagnosed with it in 
January 2019 after hed booked his holiday. 
Ive seen the first medical certificate that was completed by Mr Ws GP. This states that the 
first onset of symptoms was in December 2018 but that there was no diagnosis at that point. 
This was completed in early April 2019. Mr Ws GP wrote to AWP just under two weeks later 
to say that there had been an error on the certificate. He said that the first onset date of 
Mr Ws symptoms was in mid-January (after he had booked his holiday). 
I appreciate that the GP may have caused some confusion, however, bearing in mind that 
the GP later clarified that the first onset of symptoms wasnt until after the holiday was 
booked, I think AWP shouldve accepted this as evidence that Mr Ws new diagnosis didnt 
relate to a pre-existing condition. As far as I am aware there is no other medical evidence to 
contradict this (other than the certificate that the GP said was completed erroneously) so, on 
balance, I think this was a new condition and therefore something that the policy should 
cover. Putting things right
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. AWP P&C SA must pay the cost of Mr 
Ws claim up to the policy limit and less any applicable excess. It must also pay simple 
interest on the amount it pays at a rate of 8% per year from the date of the claim to the date 
payment is made.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. AWP P&C SA must pay the cost of Mr Ws claim up to the 
policy limit and less any applicable excess. It must also pay simple interest on the amount it 
pays at a rate of 8% per year from the date of the claim to the date payment is made.
If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman