DRN-3421227
The complaint
Mr O complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited avoided his home contents 
insurance policy including legal cover (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his 
claim.
What happened
Mr O took out a home contents insurance policy with Admiral Insurance online in March 
2021. 
In July 2021 Mr O made a claim for a stolen laptop. Admiral discovered that in June 2021 a 
paying lodger had moved in to Mr Os home. Admirals policy required Mr O to tell it about 
this change beforehand. Admiral asked Mr O why he hadnt told it  and he said he didnt 
realise he had to.  
Admiral Insurance said that Mr O had failed to tell it about a change as part of the policy 
terms and so in line with the policy, it avoided his policy from June 2021  when Mr O said 
the lodger moved in - and this meant there was no insurance in place when Mr O made his 
claim. 
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought Admiral had acted reasonably.  
Mr O doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
doesnt think Admirals actions are fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals policy booklet set out the following under the section Keeping your policy up to 
date:
Important
If you do not tell us about any corrections or changes, this could mean that we do not 
pay your claim, we reduce the amount you can claim for, or we declare your policy 
void (consider it to have never existed).
You must keep the following details up to date during the period of insurance:
1: Please tell us about the following beforehand.
If the number of lodgers or paying guests in your home changes (if a 
number is shown in your policy documents)
Mr Os policy documents from March 2021 show that he declared he had no lodgers. 
So I think Mr O failed to tell Admiral beforehand when the number of lodgers in his home 
changed from zero beforehand during the period of insurance  as required under the policy 
terms. 
Mr O says the reason why he didnt tell Admiral is because he didnt realise he had to. 
Admiral Insurance has provided evidence to show that it wouldnt have continued to provide 
insurance for Mr O if he had told it he had a lodger in June 2021. An insurers underwriting 
criteria is commercially sensitive and so this service cannot share it with customers. But we 
can ask an insurer to provide such evidence to us  so that we can be satisfied that it has 
treated a customer fairly. Having reviewed the information Admiral has provided, Im 
satisfied it has acted fairly as it wouldnt have provided insurance for Mr O from June 2021 
due to the change in his circumstances. 
Admiral avoided Mr Os policy from the date of change in June 2021, so treated the policy as 
if it didnt exist. This means it didnt meet Mr Os claim for a stolen laptop. 
Taking everything into account, I think Admiral reached its decision in a reasonable way and 
in line with the policy. I dont think Admiral did anything wrong in avoiding the policy which 
included legal cover. And so I think it reached a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Os 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman