DRN-1890673
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold two pension policies, the first in 1992 and the 
second in 1998, by predecessors of Lloyds Bank PLC. Lloyds Bank has accepted 
responsibility for Mrs Ds complaint and for ease of reference Ill refer to the business as 
Lloyds Bank in the rest of my decision.
She also complains that her pensions have not returned the yields she expected.
Further, she complains that in 1998, when she took out the second policy, she wasnt told 
about the extra charges shed have to pay. She says paying these charges has reduced her 
pensions pot.
What happened
Mrs D said she wanted to top up her 1992 pension policy to £35 per month, when she met 
with Lloyds Bank in 1998. She said she was told that wasnt possible, and shed need to 
take out a new pension policy. She said she was told it was because her 1992 policy was 
fixed, therefore she couldnt increase her contributions. 
Mrs D complains that the 1992 was mis-sold because, she was never told in 1992 that she 
held a fixed contribution pension and she wouldnt be able to increase her contributions. She 
said if she couldnt increase her contributions, the policy wouldnt have been suitable for her 
needs, as her contributions when she set it up werent going to be enough to provide the 
pension she required in retirement. She said she wouldnt have taken the 1992 policy out if 
shed been told this.
Ms D said in 1998, she ended up having to open a second pensions policy, to top up her  
contributions, and this involved paying extra charges. She said if she had been given clearer 
information, she wouldnt have taken out this second policy.She says shes been paying 
extra charges on the 1998 policy, which has dramatically reduced her pension pot overall.
Mrs D also complains that her policies haven't provided her with the yield she was 
expecting. 
Mrs D referred her concerns to Lloyds Bank. It didnt uphold her complaint. So, she 
complained to us. Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. Mrs D 
didnt accept our investigators view and asked for her case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, Mrs Ds complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, I dont think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. I'll explain why. My 
reasons are largely the same as our investigators.
growth ratesIn 1992, Mrs D signed up for a personal pension with a predecessor of Lloyds Bank. A fact 
find was completed noting that she was in her early 20s and had no employers pension 
scheme. Mrs D was said to have wanted to boost her income for retirement and agreed to 
set up a personal pension plan. 
 Mrs D was shown pension illustrations when she set up her pension in 1992. The 
investment growth shown was based on growth rates used by the industry regulator at that 
time. These were thought realistic at the time. 
I understand Mrs D might have thought she would get a return similar to that shown in the 
illustrations. But, I think it unlikely that she wouldve been told these were guaranteed. And I 
cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for, as it turns out, growth rates being below industry 
expectations at that time. There are a number of reasons why growth turned out to be much 
lower than expected,  with many of these factors being beyond Lloyds' control.  Also, looking 
at the product literature, which was intended to be issued alongside these illustrations, the 
literature made it clear that projections werent guaranteed. Mrs D said she wasnt given the 
product literature. However, if Mrs D received the illustrations, to inform her thinking on 
expected yields,  I think it likely that she would've  been given the accompanying product 
literature too. I think she may have forgotten that, which is understandable, given how much 
time has passed.
increasing her contributions
In 1998, Mrs D was looking to increase her contributions and to pay these into the policy she 
set up in 1992. The fact find established that Mrs D would, as a high priority, have to 
increase her contributions even more than she planned, if she was going to meet her needs 
in retirement.
The original product particulars explained that there would need to be a minimum increase 
of £15 to be able to increase the level of contribution into the 1992 policy. However, by 1998, 
the predecessor company providing the 1992 policy had merged with Lloyds Bank and the 
facility to top up that 1992 policy had ceased, irrespective of the amount of the top up.
So, by 1998, if Mrs D wanted to increase her contribution, as she appeared to want to, a 
new plan had to be set up. The 1998 plan was set up with an extra contribution amount of 
£11.90 per month. So, I can understand why she wasn't told in 1998 about the minimum 
increase level, but simply told she'd have to set up a new plan if she wanted to increase her 
contributions.
Overall, I dont have enough to fairly say that she wasnt given enough information by Lloyds 
to make an informed choice, or that the 1998 was unsuitable for her. Our investigator said 
that he took the view that Mrs D was able to make an informed choice, because she went 
against one of the  recommendations made by the adviser in 1998. The adviser 
recommended something that Mrs D didnt go on to take out. Like our adjudicator, I think 
more likely than not this showed Mrs D was personally in a position to make an informed 
decision about what she wanted to do, and she told the adviser that she wanted to increase 
her contribution by £11.90 in a new plan. 
1992 policy
Mrs D said that the 1992 policy was unsuitable because there was no scope for her to 
increase her contributions, because they were fixed from the outset and her initial level of 
contribution wouldnt have been sufficient to meet her needs in retirement.However, based on what Ive seen. Mrs D couldve increased the amount of her 
contributions she paid into the 1992 policy when she took it out, so long as this was at or 
above the minimum level required of £15 per month.
The merger, and removal of this option, was unlikely to have been foreseen in 1992. So, I 
cant see that the 1992 plan was mis-sold to her.
1998 policy
I cant see that setting up a new plan was clearly an unsuitable recommendation, based on 
everything Ive seen. Mrs D wanted to increase her pension provision and couldnt do so in  
her existing 1992 plan.
In 2001, Mrs D stopped contributing into her 1998 plan, following a career break. She hasn't 
paid into this plan again. But, this cant have been known in 1998. So, this doesn't change 
my view either.
charges for the 1998 plan
The product document from 1998 explained, that if the contributions stopped the 
administration charges would still continue. 
I cant see that Lloyds has done anything wrong by continuing to apply charges on Mrs Ds 
1998 policy. I understand it has agreed to charge a reduced level of charges. Mrs D feels the 
drop in her 1998 pension pot is because of the charges being applied. In 2001, she said her 
transfer value for her 1998 pension was £365. She said by June 2020, it had reduced to 
around £73. 
Although the drop in value may be affected by the charges, as our investigator pointed out, 
the reduction could also be due to other factors, including investment performance. As no 
ongoing contributions have been made into the plan since 2001, the administration charges 
can only be offset by how the fund performs. And given the very modest size of the fund, 
performance returns are likely  to be low.
Based on everything Ive seen, I cant see that Lloyds has acted unfairly in the way charges 
have been applied.
Overall, I can't see that Lloyds has done anything wrong, so I am not making any award.
My final decision
my final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman