DRN-3437220
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs O complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc ought to have done more to protect them 
from falling victim to what they claim was an investment scam.  
Its common ground that Mr B has had the majority of dealings with HSBC and our service 
pursuant to this complaint. So, for ease of reference, Ive referred to him solely within my 
decision. 
What happened
In short, this complaint with HSBC concerns four online payments Mr B made, totalling 
approximately £35,000, which took place between December 2020 and February 2021. They 
all went to the same parent company, despite money first being sent to different payees. 
Mr B says this company, which for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as Q, used 
manipulation, untoward tactics and general malpractice to entice him to make investments 
which then resulted in considerable losses. To make matters worse, Mr B claims that Q 
obstructed his withdrawal attempts when he asked for his money to be released back to him. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said Q operates in high-risk investment markets and 
the bank didnt think its operation consisted of fraud. Because it wasnt in dispute that Mr B 
authorised these payments, HSBC was unable to refund or recover them. 
When bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators wasnt satisfied Q was 
fraudulent. They therefore thought that HSBC couldnt fairly be held accountable. Because 
Mr B and Mrs O disagree, the case has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do 
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. 
Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), HSBC has a regulatory 
obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial crime.
Still, this must be balanced with HSBCs other duties. Theres a provision that delaying a 
payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the ones that Mr B made 
to Q. 
Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not necessarily 
constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, there is a 
general prohibition that HBSC should not be providing investment advice pertaining to where 
a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money.
In other words, its possible that HSBC could have warned Mr B about the dangers of falling 
victim to investment fraudsters, without providing him investment advice. But these 
obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were 
sufficient grounds for suspecting the payees (i.e. Q) were fraudsters; meaning that HSBC 
could have delayed the payments while concerns about Q were discussed with Mr B. 
Hence, why I would need to be satisfied that Q was operating a scam when these payments 
were made in 2020 and 2021 in order to expect HSBC to have done anything further here. 
When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment traders (such as 
CFD and Forex merchants) may use sales methods, or communication styles that can be 
seen to be unfair. Especially, when considering the financial losses incurred because of a 
disappointing return on an investment thats been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to 
us involving these types of merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and means of 
these businesses can be viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt 
necessarily mean they amount to the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and 
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts 
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent.
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no 
such warnings about Q at the time these payments were made. On the contrary, the 
evidence demonstrates that Mr Bs money went to a legitimate business, that was actually 
regulated in another jurisdiction at the material time (and continues to be so now). Suffice to 
say, illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming consumers are highly 
unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight. 
Indeed, by Mr Bs own admission, Q was covered by at least one overseas regulatory power, 
which reassured him when carrying out his due diligence prior to going ahead with the 
payments. Mr B has conceded that everything looked above board in light of this fact. To 
that end, Im satisfied theres strong evidence Q wasnt fraudulent or operating a scam.
As well as the regulation of Q, Ive been provided evidence from Mr B that displays that he 
has an available balance with Q in the region of $42,000. This is accompanied by email 
exchanges between him and Qs staff, whereby an offer of settlement for approximately the 
same amount has been put forward by Q to resolve things. 
As I see it, this reinforces my view that Q wasnt operating a scam at the time Mr B made 
these payments, because it still has some proceeds of Mr Bs investments which are 
obtainable to him in order to settle this matter. Besides, if Q is committing a false 
representation about what Mr B has available to withdraw, this would not be a consideration 
for this case against HSBC. But rather, a complaint or concern would need to be raised 
directly with Q or its regulator (outside of an investigation into Mr Bs bank account provider). 
Likewise, any objections concerning the investment advice or choices of Q would also fall 
part of a separate dispute to that of the one I am determining here. 
Overall, Im not convinced Q was the perpetrator of investment fraud  and this has been 
confirmed by authoritative sources covering cross-industry forums and various jurisdictions, 
together with evidence provided by Mr B himself. While Ive paid due regard to the concerns 
Mr B has raised about the techniques Q employed, I must follow the evidence and, 
ultimately, Mr B hasnt persuaded me otherwise. As Ive concluded that the payments Mr B made to Q were not fraudulent, HSBCs duty to 
intervene wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Mr Bs investments returning a 
loss, based on market performance. But as Ive explained, HSBC isnt required to protect its 
consumers from the risk of financial loss due to unsuccessful investment advice/choices, or 
bad bargains. Therefore, HSBC did not act unfairly by not undertaking further counter 
measures. Consequently, I cannot safely hold it liable for these payments, or Mr B and     
Mrs Os loss that ensued. It follows that I do not require HSBC to do anything beyond what it 
has already for this complaint.   
Finally, it may be possible for Mr B and Mrs O to pursue this matter within other regulatory 
jurisdictions; those being, the territories in which Q is authorised, for example. In order to 
avoid any doubt, I will reiterate that this is not a matter that our service can comment or 
direct upon  it is for the relevant bodies within that remit to preside over.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
For completeness, my decision does not have a lawful bearing on any dispute the 
complainants may wish to pursue directly against Q, as these legal rights remain intact. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman