DRN-4335994
The complaint
Miss L has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Miss Ls car was stolen and she made a claim under her insurance policy. When Advantage 
looked into the claim it initially turned it down as the last driver of the car wasnt a named 
driver on the policy. But it changed its stance on this as it thought that this wasnt material to 
the circumstances surrounding the theft and it went on to settle the claim and write Miss Ls 
car off.
As Miss L wasnt happy about this and the way it dealt with her claim she complained to 
Advantage about this. It answered three separate complaints to Miss L and upheld two of 
them  it apologised for some of the calls dropping when she called; for the general 
customer journey she had faced; and for not keeping her fully informed when her car was 
impounded by the police after the theft. But Advantage didnt feel it had done anything wrong 
when it initially turned down the claim. As Miss L remained unhappy about this she 
complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss L. Although she accepted Miss Ls customer 
journey had been poor, and that Advantage couldve kept her up to date she thought its 
attempts to put things right by offering £75 compensation was fair.
As Miss L didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have a fair degree of sympathy for the position Miss L found herself in after her car had 
been stolen. I say this as it must have been very stressful to have her claim declined and 
then to have faced a poor customer journey alongside the fear of thinking her car could be 
crushed by the police if it wasnt collected. I know Advantage has acknowledged some of its 
failings here, but I dont think its offer of compensation goes far enough. Ill explain why.
Advantage has apologised for the delay in notifying Miss L that her vehicle had been 
recovered and offered her £75 by way of compensation. But Miss L has had a particularly 
difficult time in dealing with this claim especially as her claim was declined at one stage. I 
agree that Advantage is entitled to investigate claims, as it has in this instance, but having 
done so it incorrectly turned down the claim. And I think this must have been very worrying 
for Miss L. Fortunately the decision to decline the claim was reversed quite quickly but it 
must have been very stressful for Miss L all the same.
Plus, Advantage has acknowledged and apologised for some additional poor service in 
relation to calls dropping, although it couldnt be sure from its investigations that there was 
any problem on its side that caused calls to drop. However, I think it should offer some 
compensation for this as well as opposed to just offering an apology.
Given all of this, I think Miss L has been caused a fair degree of stress, worry and 
inconvenience at a time when she was already suffering with her health. So I think 
Advantage should pay Miss L £175 compensation as opposed to £75. I know Miss L would 
like a lot more compensation, but our awards are generally modest, and it isnt the role of 
this Service to punish businesses when they get things wrong.
Finally, I can see that Miss L has raised an additional point about whether her car shouldve 
been written off in the first place. But Advantage hasnt had the opportunity to consider this 
point so she will have to raise this with Advantage in the first instance and she can advance 
this with our Service if she remains unhappy with its response.
Replies
Miss L responded and said that although she wasnt entirely happy with my provisional 
decision, she was thankful for the consideration of her case and the uplift of a further £100 
compensation (£175 total). Miss L reiterated a number of issues she had already raised and 
questioned why she was having to continue to pay her policy premium when the car had 
been written off.
While Advantage said that it didnt think the level of compensation should be lifted. It 
reiterated that the reason the claim was declined was that an uninsured driver had been 
allowed to use the car and so didnt feel it was wholly responsible for the trouble and upset 
caused to Miss L. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld, and the  
compensation should be lifted from £75 to £175. I can understand the further points raised 
by both sides, but it doesnt affect my original thinking on this case. 
I can understand why Miss L feels she should be awarded more compensation and the 
impact all this had on her poor health as well. But Ive taken this into account when I 
considered the complaint originally. And I know Miss L doesnt want to pay her premium for 
the policy as the car has been written off. But, in effect, the full premium was due once there 
was a claim on the policy so I cant say Advantage acted unfairly here. 
For its part, Advantage doesnt accept that the level of compensation should be increased 
and highlights again the reason for the initial decline. But this has already been considered 
and it has accepted that it got things wrong when it declined the claim initially, so Im 
surprised it has looked to bring this back up now. And, ultimately, it answered three separate 
complaints from Miss L and upheld two of them and so I think it should pay Miss L £175 
compensation in acknowledgement of the poor customer journey Miss L faced, especially 
given her poor health. Miss L was clearly stressed about her car being impounded and not 
being kept up to date by Advantage about this, the poor customer service she faced (including the calls dropping) and the clear error (and stress caused) in turning down the 
claim.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss L £175 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman