DRN-1456506
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited ("H&T") lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner. 
What happened
Miss B was given three loans by H&T between July 2017 and April 2018. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in monthly instalments as shown below but Miss B repaid each of them 
far earlier than planned. A summary of Miss B's borrowing from H&T is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount Number of 
Instalments
1 26/07/2017 31/07/2017 £  250 6
2 15/08/2017 31/08/2017 £  350 5
3 12/04/2018 30/04/2018 £  600 9
 
Miss B's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didn't think H&T had 
been wrong to give any of the loans to Miss B. So she didn't think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Miss B didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
 
 But certain factors might point to the fact that H&T should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
I think it would first be helpful to consider the pattern of Miss B's borrowing. She repaid each 
loan within at most a couple of weeks of taking it out. Given that she had planned to repay 
the loans over a far longer period that might have caused the lender some additional 
concerns. But there was also a significant gap between loans 2 and 3. Miss B didn't borrow 
from H&T for over seven months. So that might have helped reduce any concerns about 
Miss B's finances being under pressure.
H&T did some checks before it gave each of the loans to Miss B. It asked her for details of 
her income and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file before agreeing each 
loan. I've seen a summary of the results of the credit checks and they don't show anything 
that I think should have caused additional concerns to the lender.
The information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be 
very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, 
this would explain any differences between the information provided by H&Ts credit 
checks and the information Miss B says the lender should have seen.
I think that the checks H&T did before agreeing each of the loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Miss B needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income 
shed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for H&T to ask her for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing any of loans. So I don't think H&T was 
wrong to lend to Miss B. 
I appreciate that Miss B says her finances were under pressure at that time. And that is 
apparent from the bank statements she has sent us that show her borrowing from other 
short term lenders and spending large amounts on what appear to be online gambling 
transactions. But the true state of Miss B's finances wasn't something that she shared with 
H&T when she asked for the loans. And I don't think it is something that H&T should have 
discovered from proportionate checks. So I don't think this complaint should be upheld.   
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Harvey & Thompson Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman