DRN-3251073
The complaint
Mr N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited caused delays to an Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) partial transfer causing him financial loss. He also complains about a 
duplicated payment which he says caused him distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat 
that again here.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Both parties said they had nothing further 
to add. So, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their respective quick responses. As neither party has added 
anything further, my final decision remains that I think Shawbrook should pay Mr N £100 for 
its mistake. The relevant section of my provisional decision which now forms the reasoning 
for this final decision is as follows:
In terms of the delays to the ISA transfer, Mr N requested this through a business Ill refer to 
as D, on 29 May 2020. And this was completed eight weeks later on 31 July. D called 
Shawbrook on 15 July and re-sent the instruction letter which was received by Shawbrook 
on 17 July. So, on balance, given the transfer was completed within two weeks of this date, I 
dont think Shawbrook caused unreasonable delays to the transfer process.
Whilst I cant be sure whether D did send its transfer request in May 2020, what I can say is 
that the first letter received by Shawbrook was dated 7 July 2020 and this was received on 
17 July following a call between the two ISA providers. I dont think theres any persuasive 
evidence to show anything was sent to, or received by, Shawbrook prior to July 2020.
Mr N says it was Shawbrooks fault because it has admitted it has previously had problems 
opening emails from D. But I can see Shawbrook has checked Mr Ns profile on its system 
and it cant see that there are any emails from D, even unopened. In any event, from the 
evidence Ive seen, D said that it sent the transfer request by post at the end of May 2020. 
So, even if Shawbrook had problems opening emails from D, which I cant see applies in 
Mr Ns case, Im satisfied this would not have made any difference to this particular transfer 
as D initiated this by post.
Mr N is also unhappy with how long Shawbrook took to respond to his complaint. But, 
generally, a financial business has eight weeks to respond to complaints and I can see 
Shawbrook met this timescale. So, I dont see this is indicative of it causing delays more 
generally as Mr N suggests.
In terms of the duplicate payment of £5,000 sent to D on 10 August 2020, this was ten days 
after the ISA transfer had been completed. I appreciate the refund only took four working 
days to complete. But this was a sizeable amount of money taken by mistake from Mr Ns 
account without his consent. I can understand this wouldve caused him worry and upset.
Ive taken into account that the refund did only take a matter of days. But as Ive said, this 
was a significant sum of money. And by its own admission, Shawbrook could have done 
more to reassure Mr N about the steps it was taking to recover his funds. Given this, I am 
awarding a further £50 in addition to the £50 already offered by Shawbrook. I think this fairly 
reflects the impact of its mistake on Mr N.
I know Mr N has asked our service to intervene and conduct a review of Shawbrooks 
internal processes to protect others from such serious errors but our role isnt to regulate 
financial businesses. This is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to look at 
the individual circumstances of each case. Where a business has made a mistake we then 
assess the impact on the individual and award compensation accordingly.
Shawbrook has confirmed that no compensation has been paid to Mr N to date. So, I will be 
asking it to pay a total of £100 to him in compensation for its mistake.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay Mr N £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman