DRN-4431901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about how BUPA Insurance Limited, trading as BUPA Global, dealt 
with a claim against their private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
In summary, Mr and Mrs F have private medical insurance underwritten by BUPA via a 
company health plan. The certificate relevant to this complaint shows that Mrs F had 
cover from 23 August 2022 to 31 December 2022. 
Mrs F sought treatment for skin conditions and on 10 December 2022, her medical 
provider asked BUPA to authorise a claim for three medications: a pigment corrector, a 
sunscreen and a silicone gel. 
During a phone call between Mr F and BUPA on 10 December 2022, BUPA agreed to 
authorise the claim for the sunscreen while Mr and Mrs F waited at the hospital but then 
didnt send the authorisation. After waiting for some time, Mrs F left the hospital without 
the authorised item. In an e-mail to the medical provider on 11 December 2022, BUPA 
declined the claim. That e-mail didnt indicate that one of the medications was 
authorised. 
On 21 December 2022, Mrs Fs medical provider resubmitted the claim for the three 
medications. On 22 December 2022, BUPA said that it had referred the request to its 
clinical team and couldnt approve the request as the medications werent medically 
indicated. 
In mid-January 2023, BUPA sent a new authorisation to Mrs Fs medical provider. That 
meant that Mrs F had to pay another annual deductible in a new policy year. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt think that BUPA had handled Mrs Fs claim fairly and pursued the 
complaint. They say that Mrs F didnt get her medication for over a month due to BUPAs 
delays. In response to the complaint, BUPA paid Mr and Mrs F compensation of 
approximately £230. Mr and Mrs F didnt think that was sufficient and pursued the 
complaint.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that BUPA didnt act 
unfairly in relying on the exclusion relating to cosmetic treatments or scar revision in 
relation to two of the medications. The investigator said that he agreed that BUPA should 
have been clearer about the sunscreen and that it had caused delay of one month in  
Mrs F accessing that medication. He thought that BUPAs offer of compensation was fair 
and reasonable in this case. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the compensation was 
insufficient with regard to the health risk Mrs F suffered as a result of BUPA 
discontinuing medication before completion of the course and delaying the medication 
for a month. Mr and Mrs F want compensation for the risk to Mrs Fs health and to 
prevent BUPA from treating other customers in this way.
Another investigator considered what Mr and Mrs F said but she reached the same 
conclusion as the first investigator. Mr and Mrs F asked that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.    
my provisional decision
On 18 October 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of membership, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows: 
What is not covered?
In the Exclusion section below, we list specific treatments, conditions and situations that 
we do not cover as part of your plan.
[]
Cosmetic treatment Treatment undergone for cosmetic or psychological reasons 
to improve your appearance []
Examples:
[]
we do not pay for treatment of keloid scars. We also do not pay for scar revision.
 
has BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold    
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and Ill explain why:    
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive set out above the relevant exclusion in this case. Based on what Ive seen, 
including the two medical reports provided by Mr and Mrs F, I dont think that BUPA 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Fs claim for two of the medications. 
One of the medical reports provided by Mr and Mrs F indicates that the silicone gel 
was prescribed to treat scarring. The other medical report refers to pigment corrector 
for hyperpigmentation. I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
concluding that the treatment in these two instances was for cosmetic purposes and 
therefore excluded from cover. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for BUPA to 
rely on that exclusion.
I understand that BUPA had previously authorised the claim in order to honour an 
error. I dont think that means that its obliged to continue to cover something thats 
excluded in the policy. Its common ground that BUPA made errors in its handling of Mrs Fs claim. BUPA 
authorised one item and said that it would send the authorisation while Mr and Mrs F 
waited at the hospital but didnt do so. That meant that Mr and Mrs F waited at the 
hospital for several hours and went home without the item.  
BUPA sent the treatment provider a rejection of the claim and didnt mention that one 
of the medications had been approved. BUPA says that Mrs Fs treatment provider 
should have relied on its earlier authorisation 513 but I understand that was before 
the e-mail rejecting the claim in relation to all three medications. I can understand  
why the treatment provider required further authorisation. BUPA says that after it had 
incorrectly declined the claim for all three medications on 11 December 2022, it told 
Mr F that the pre-authorisation ending 513 was still valid. I think it would have been 
more helpful to tell the treatment provider that or to provide it with a new 
authorisation.  
Whilst I think that BUPA was entitled to decline the claim for two of the three items, I 
think that its handling of the claim for the third item caused Mr and Mrs F distress and 
inconvenience. They waited at the treatment provider for an authorisation that was 
promised and never came and left without the approved item. There was also further 
inconvenience in waiting for BUPA to tell the treatment provider that it authorised one 
item after it had declined all three items. I think that the compensation BUPA has 
already paid is fair and reasonable in relation to Mr and Mrs Fs distress and 
inconvenience. But I think that BUPAs actions also caused Mr and Mrs F loss. Ill 
explain why.
BUPA sent further authorisation to the treatment provider in mid-January 2023, which 
meant that Mrs F had to pay another annual deductible. If BUPA had dealt with     
Mrs Fs claim promptly and without the ensuing confusion, it would have been dealt 
with in the policy year ending December 2022 and Mrs F wouldnt have been 
required to pay an annual deductible for 2023. Mr and Mrs F have provided evidence 
that they paid the annual deductible in the policy year 2023. And BUPA has 
confirmed that this was the only claim Mrs F submitted in the policy year 2023. In all 
the circumstances, it seems to me that its fair and reasonable for BUPA to reimburse 
Mrs F for the 2023 annual deductible. It should also pay interest on that sum. 
Responses to my provisional decision
BUPA accepted my provisional decision. Mr F responded to say that the compensation 
wasnt sufficient to make BUPA realise its mistake and to deter it from repeating the mistake 
again. He said that they suffered physical and mental inconvenience. Mr F says that he too 
was receiving treatment at the relevant time and that BUPA was aware of that. 
Mr F says that they waited at the hospital for the authorised medication for over four hours 
and visited the hospital twice to get the medication but without success. He says that there 
was considerable delay in getting the authorised medication. 
Mr F provided the medical reports hed previously provided and said that the pigment 
corrector was prescribed for a medical condition and BUPA should approve the remaining 
two months medication to complete the minimum course of three months. He said that the 
gel was prescribed to treat the pain of hypertrophic scars. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, so we have no power to award compensation in order to 
punish a business or deter it from future actions. We look at whats happened in the 
individual case and decide whats fair and reasonable. 
Ive looked again at the medical reports Mr and Mrs F have provided. I remain of the view 
that  BUPA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Fs claim for two of the 
medications. On balance, Im satisfied that those medications relate to cosmetic treatment, 
as defined by the policy. And I dont think that BUPA is obliged to authorise treatment thats 
excluded in the policy in order that Mrs F can complete a course of treatment. 
Ive considered what Mr F has said in response to my provisional decision but, considering 
everything, I remain of the view that the compensation that BUPA has already paid is fair 
and reasonable in relation to Mr and Mrs Fs distress and inconvenience. In reaching that 
view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by BUPAs errors in this case. But I think that BUPA should 
compensate Mr and Mrs F for the loss they incurred in paying the annual deductible in 2023. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I direct BUPA to reimburse the 2023 annual deductible of £150 
and pay interest on that amount at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date in January 
2023, when it sent a new authorisation to Mrs Fs medical provider to the date of payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now direct BUPA Insurance Limited to take 
the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman