DRN-3315918
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited renewed his motorcycle insurance 
policies after he asked it to stop the auto-renewal. He wants an apology and compensation 
for his stress and its poor service. 
What happened
Mr Ms policies for his motor bikes were due for renewal and Hastings sent him its auto-
renewal notification. Mr M tried to cancel these through his online account, but this wasnt 
successful. So he sent Hastings emails. It responded saying that he would need to call it to 
cancel the renewals. Mr M didnt call, and so the policies auto-renewed. Mr M was unhappy 
with this and said he felt bullied into renewing his policies with Hastings. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy booklet, the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and the policy summary 
all explained that the policy would auto-renew, and that Mr M could cancel this through his 
online account or by calling Hastings. She thought this was fair and reasonable and that 
Hastings had explained to Mr M that he couldnt cancel by email. So she thought it wasnt 
unreasonable for Hastings to renew his policies. 
Mr M replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M is adamant that Hastings should have followed his email instruction to 
cancel the renewal of his policies. But I dont agree. And Ill now explain why I think this. 
I think its been established that Mr Ms policies were set for auto-renewal. Hed agreed this 
when hed taken out the previous years cover. We think this is positive as it can prevent 
consumers from being unintentionally uninsured. But we also think it should be made clear 
how consumers can opt out of auto-renewal if they no longer want the cover. 
Ive looked at the various policy documents sent to Mr M and I think Hastings makes it very 
clear what he must do to cancel the auto-renewals. He has the options of either cancelling 
the policies though his online account or calling Hastings. I can see that Mr M suspects that 
this is so Hastings can persuade him to renew his cover. But I think this is standard industry 
practice. And so I cant say that this is unfair or unreasonable.
Mr M unfortunately couldnt cancel through his online account. And so he emailed Hastings 
to cancel the renewals. But Hastings said this wasnt acceptable and he would have to call to 
cancel. The reason for this is so that Hastings can ensure that it is Mr M who is asking for 
the cancellation and to prevent any errors. 
Again, I think this is standard industry practice. I think its also Hastings business decision 
and its not something that this service would normally interfere with as it is a legitimate 
exercise of its commercial judgement. And so I cant say that it is unfair or unreasonable.
Mr M thought he didnt need to call Hastings to cancel his renewals. And so they renewed, 
as he was told they would be. I can see that Mr M was upset by this. But I think Hastings had 
clearly explained what he would need to do to stop the renewals, but he didnt do this. 
When Mr M sent in further emails Hastings said it was satisfied that data protection 
requirements had been met and Mr Ms intentions were clear, so it cancelled the policies and 
removed any balances outstanding. So Mr M didnt incur any losses. I cant say that 
Hastings acted incorrectly. And so I think Hastings doesnt need to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman