DRN-2195014
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Western Union Payment Services Ireland Limiteds decision to stop 
him using its services and its overall treatment of him. 
  
What happened
Mr H regularly sent money to his girlfriend in another country. The two have known each 
other for a considerable number of years and have met in person on numerous occasions.
In 2019, Western Union prevented both Mr H and his girlfriend from using its services. 
Mr H was unhappy with the decision, lack of explanation and poor service provided in trying 
to ascertain what had happened. He was particularly disappointed that Western Union could 
not, or would not, provide clear reasons for their decision, nor for information that they 
requested from him and his girlfriend. He also found some of the requests to be non-
sensical. 
Later Mr H said that Western Union employees twice suggested he was involved in some 
kind of illegal activity  something, he felt, potentially might impact his employment 
prospects.
He complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They 
agreed that Western Union hadnt always provided the best service but didnt think that it 
had done anything wrong by refusing to have Mr H as its customer. Neither, the investigator 
said, could we comment on the actions of Western Union in relation to Mr Hs girlfriend. 
Following further contact from our investigator Western Union offered an apology and £100 
in compensation. Mr H said that the apology was too vague and didnt address, or apologise 
for, the allegation of wrongdoing made against him. 
 
In September 2020 Western Union provided another letter of apology and repeated its offer 
of compensation, but Mr H wasnt happy with this either. Again, he didnt feel the letter of 
apology specifically addressed the comments made by Western Union staff and he 
suggested some wording it could use instead. He also remained of the view that Western 
Union hadnt addressed, among other things, the crux of his complaint  why he and his 
girlfriend had been prevented from using Western Unions services. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont mean any discourtesy to Mr H if I havent addressed each and every point he has 
raised. I can assure him Ive considered his submissions carefully and taken all of his points 
into account. And, to be clear, I wont be commenting on any of Western Unions actions in 
relation to Mr Hs girlfriend. 
Western Union generally isnt obligated to provide its services to Mr H, or anyone else. While 
there are certain reasons it should not deny its services (for example, a decision based on 
unlawful discrimination), it is generally free to decide who it does and does not want as a 
customer. 
Though Western Union have not expressed themselves clearly to Mr H, its apparent they 
had concerns about the recipient of the payments, not him. Mr H may vehemently deny there 
is anything for Western Union to be concerned about and I accept hes provided extensive 
evidence to counter that suggestion. But, my role is not to say whether I agree with their 
decision, but rather whether their decision is a legitimate exercise of their commercial 
judgement or not. 
So, while Mr H does not agree with the decision, Im satisfied its not based on any unlawful 
discrimination and falls within Western Unions legitimate commercial judgement. Ultimately 
it is for it to decide what level of risk it wants to take when processing a payment (even if Mr 
H might disagree there is any risk at all). While Western Union have said that Mr H can apply 
to use its services again, theres no guarantee that such an application would be accepted. I 
also appreciate that being allowed to use Western Unions services, but not being able to 
send money to his girlfriend, might be of little use to Mr H. 
That said, I do think Western Union have expressed themselves poorly at times and been 
unhelpfully secretive about their concerns. If Western Union were concerned about the 
recipient of the payments, rather than him, then Im of the view that it ought to have been 
clear with Mr H from the time it first blocked him from using its services.
Because of their cryptic responses, Mr H has been left to speculate about the reasons why 
he has been prevented from using its service. Though I havent heard either conversation 
which Mr H refers to (the contents of which do not appear to be in dispute) I think it is 
Western Unions advisors reluctance to disclose the true reasons for their concerns which 
have led to the comments which have caused Mr H most distress. 
However, Im satisfied that Western Union do not and have never considered Mr H a threat 
or a perpetrator of fraud. Therefore, I think its extremely unlikely that such a suggestion 
would ever be communicated to a third party outside of Western Union in such a way as to 
hamper Mr Hs career. 
Though I note that Mr H points to his experiences with another money remittance provider as 
possible evidence this information has been shared, Ive seen nothing in Western Unions 
submissions to suggest thats the case. More likely, I think, is that the other provider has 
similar concerns for similar reasons. 
So, I wont compel Western Union to provide Mr H with the specific apology he asks for. 
Im also satisfied that £100 fairly represents the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Western Unions errors  particularly the statements by their staff which have caused Mr H 
particular upset and worry and their failure to be clearer about the actions theyve taken. 
However, Im also of the view that a significant part of the distress and inconvenience 
caused is as a result of Western Union restricting his and his girlfriends use of its services. I 
cannot award compensation for that. 
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that Western Union Payment Services Ireland Limited should pay Mr H 
£100 in compensation, if it hasnt already done so. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman