DRN-3684472
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Tymit Ltd wont refund a withdrawal he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr Ns Tymit credit card and PIN were used to withdraw £200 at a cash 
machine. Mr N explained that hed lost his wallet some hours before while on a walk. His 
wallet contained this card, and a sheet of paper with about 20 names and phone numbers. 
One of the phone numbers contained Mr Ns Tymit PIN in the last four digits, labelled under 
a false name.
Tymit held Mr N liable for the payment in dispute. They noted that the person using the card 
had the correct PIN on the first try, so they thought it was most likely that the record of the 
PIN was not as safe as Mr N said it was. Our adjudicator looked into things independently 
and came to the same conclusion.
Mr N didnt agree. He emphasised that his PIN was very well concealed on the piece of 
paper. He asked for his case to be reviewed afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mr N and Tymit a provisional decision on 30 August 2022, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Broadly speaking, Tymit can hold Mr N liable for the withdrawal in dispute if he authorised it.
Im satisfied from Tymits technical evidence that the transaction in dispute used Mr Ns 
genuine credit card, and the correct PIN on the first try. So I can see the withdrawal was 
properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests its most likely 
that Mr N consented to the transaction, or not.
Mr N has been consistent and detailed in his testimony about how well concealed his PIN 
was. I dont think I have a good reason to doubt what hes told us about the way his PIN was 
disguised. So Ill assess this case on the basis that Mr Ns PIN was heavily disguised as the 
last four digits of a phone number, under a fake name, amongst many other names and 
phone numbers, with nothing else to indicate it was even a record of a PIN.
The problem, then, is that if someone stole or found Mr Ns lost wallet, then I do not see a 
likely or plausible way that they would have been able to learn his PIN and use it correctly on 
the first try.
The person using the card entered the correct PIN on the very first try. But it is neither likely 
nor plausible that a third party would be able to somehow recognise the list of phone 
numbers as a potential PIN record, and also somehow guess which fake name and phone 
number related to this particular card, and also somehow guess which particular digits of the 
phone number made up the PIN  and all on the very first try.
Turning to other potential possibilities, it is extremely unlikely and implausible that a third 
party simply guessed the PIN from the thousands of possible ones on the first attempt. And 
since Mr N had not used this card beforehand, they would not have been able to overlook 
him entering his PIN on a previous transaction. 
As such, I do not see a likely or plausible way that a third party was able to learn Mr Ns PIN 
and make this withdrawal without his permission.
On the other hand, it seems perfectly plausible that Mr N could have made this withdrawal, 
or given someone else permission to make it on his behalf. Ive not seen any evidence that 
makes this possibility seem implausible or unlikely.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Ns genuine card and PIN were used. Based on the 
evidence, including Mr Ns testimony, there isnt a likely or plausible way a third party could 
have known his PIN and made the withdrawal without his permission. And the only likely 
alternative possibility is that the withdrawal was made with Mr Ns consent. This is a difficult 
message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr N to receive. But given the 
evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other 
conclusion.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I think its fair for Tymit to decline a refund in this case.
I acknowledge that other businesses have refunded Mr N for disputed payments. But we are 
an independent service and come to our own conclusions  we wont necessarily agree with 
what any given financial business has found. And we look at each case on its individual 
merits. Ive explained above why I dont think this particular case should be upheld.
I said Id consider further submissions from both sides. Tymit said they had nothing further 
to add. Mr N sent in a series of emails, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N argued that the case should only be about whether his PIN was reasonably concealed 
or not. But thats only one factor in a case like this, and we look at complaints holistically. 
The core issue is that financial businesses  like Tymit  have to refund unauthorised 
payments. But if the evidence suggests a payment was actually authorised, then they dont 
have to refund it. Issues such as how well the PIN was concealed are ultimately secondary 
to the key consideration about whether the payment was authorised or not.And as I said before, Im willing to accept that Mr Ns PIN was as well-concealed as he said 
it was, given his consistent and detailed testimony about it. And so Ive assessed the case 
on the basis that his PIN was very heavily disguised. The problem is that that means there 
was no likely or plausible way that someone would have found Mr Ns card and been able to 
use it with the right PIN without his consent.
Mr N said that it wasnt relevant that the person using the card got the PIN right on the first 
try. But its very relevant, as it evidences that they knew the PIN. Mr N suggested that 
someone might have worked out the PIN for another card first after getting it wrong a 
number of times, and then been able to decipher the formula to find his Tymit PIN after. But 
you only get a very small number of attempts to enter the PIN before the card gets blocked 
and you cant try again. And given how heavily disguised Mr N said his PIN record was  
hidden in full phone numbers, under fake names, amongst many other names and numbers, 
with nothing to even indicate there were any PIN numbers hidden there at all, and so on  
I find that it is not likely or plausible that someone worked out any of his PINs from this 
record. And there was no other opportunity for them to learn his PIN. So I find that its neither 
likely nor plausible that the disputed withdrawal was unauthorised.
Mr N made arguments around this not being a criminal case, saying it was for the police to 
decide if his claim was genuine or not. But Im afraid Mr N has got the wrong end of the stick. 
I hope I can reassure him that we are not here to press criminal charges against him. I have 
not assessed this as a criminal case, but as a civil dispute between Mr N and Tymit  a 
dispute which Mr N asked us to decide. And central to this case is whether the disputed 
withdrawal was authorised or not. I have found that, based on the evidence, it was most 
likely to have been authorised. Which means Tymit dont have to refund it.
Mr N questioned what authority I had to deal with this matter. As an ombudsman, I have the 
authority under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA for short) and the 
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP for short) to decide disputes like this one. And in this 
particular case, Mr N asked our service to decide the dispute. Then when he disagreed with 
our adjudicator he asked for a fresh pair of eyes to review the matter  which our adjudicator 
had explained would be an ombudsman. Thats why his case was passed to me.
So taking all the evidence and arguments into account, Ive come to the same conclusion as 
before  that Tymit can hold Mr N liable for the withdrawal in dispute.
Lastly, Mr N said he wanted his case to be looked at again by someone else. But a review 
by an ombudsman is the final stage in our process. And now that I have made my final 
decision, it marks the end of our services involvement in the case, and we are no longer 
able to consider the complaint any further at all. If Mr N would like to pursue his dispute with 
Tymit, he would need to do so through the courts.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman