DRN-3085103
Complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) policy. He says the redress he received from the mis-sale hasnt 
been calculated correctly and he is due back more money than he got.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
Background
I see that one of our adjudicators provided Mr H with a view about this complaint. They said 
that they didnt think the PPI redress had been incorrectly calculated, so we shouldnt uphold 
his complaint.
Mr H disagrees with this and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im afraid Im not upholding the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H.
Id like to start by saying I certainly dont doubt Mr H honestly and genuinely feels now that 
the money he was paid back hasnt been calculated correctly. His central point here is that 
the PPI premiums he paid were all part and part of his overall mortgage borrowing. 
Therefore, if his mortgage had more money outstanding on it, hed pay more interest. He 
thinks this hasnt been factored into the redress hes been awarded.
So, Mr H thinks his mortgage was higher than it ought to have been because the PPI had 
been added on to his mortgage and he is due back a greater amount because of what he 
refers to as a compound interest effect.
I note that Halifax could and should have done a better job of progressing Mr Hs complaint 
and explaining things to him. Hes had disappointing responses. Nevertheless, his complaint 
couldnt be resolved and so has come to our Service to investigate.
Our adjudicator looked into the matter and didnt agree with Mr Hs complaint about 
compound interest being due. 
What our adjudicator was trying to explain is that we see broadly two types of PPI. A less 
common type is one called single premium PPI  this is where the policy is paid for up 
front in one single payment, sometimes costing several thousand pounds. To pay this, the 
consumer borrows money (as they would for a loan or mortgage) and this extra amount 
borrowed attracts more interest. The loan or mortgage is therefore bigger than it would 
otherwise have been, and so more interest is due.
The much more common type of PPI we see with mortgages is called regular premium PPI. 
This is paid for in monthly premiums, similar to paying for an ongoing insurance policy, such 
as home insurance or life cover. Mr H had one of these policies. We no longer have a copy 
of his policy document, but in my experience Halifax did not sell single premium PPI with 
mortgages when Mr H bought his policy. And he hasnt provided any evidence to the 
contrary. In my view, the business involved in the case, the roll number, time-period and 
product type all point strongly to this being a regular premium PPI policy attracting no 
interest. 
Ive also seen a great many of these sales in my experience as an ombudsman and I have 
considerable experience in looking at Halifax cases in particular. What Ive seen in this case 
is that Halifax first paid a smaller amount to Mr H - £163  for the commission Mr H was 
charged. Basically, businesses were ordered to do this in certain cases by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Where the commission rates were over 50% of the overall 
premiums, they were ordered to pay this back with interest. Sometimes the commission 
rates were only marginally over 50%, so the amount owed wasnt that much. I think Mr Hs 
mortgage PPI was such a case  the commission was only marginally above the threshold.
It then seems Halifax reviewed the actual sale i.e. was the policy mis-sold in the first place? 
Halifax had a change of heart and agreed it was mis-sold, so all the PPI premiums were due 
back. At the same time, Halifax took off the commission element already paid. However, it 
took off too much (£220 instead of £163) and so this was re-calculated and paid to Mr H. In 
my view, the calculations were amended correctly and carried out in accordance with our 
expectations.
Mr Hs specific complaint is that he is due what he refers to as compound interest, but Im 
afraid I dont agree.
Its true to say that when we issue directions to businesses that have mis-sold PPI, we direct 
them to do slightly different things depending on whether the policy was a single premium or 
a regular one, as described above. As Ive said, in this case, all the evidence points to Mr 
Hs policy being a regular premium. The PPI therefore was not added on to his mortgage, 
nor was his mortgage higher because of the PPI. In short, they were separate products.
Mr H asked me to consider that the mortgage premium and PPI were taken at the same time 
each month. This is common in my experience and doesnt imply his PPI was a single 
premium type.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H. I acknowledge the difficult journey hes had with getting an 
explanation; however my powers are limited in this regard.
To be clear then, there is no evidence whatsoever that Mr H is due back more redress due 
to PPI costs being added to an interest-bearing mortgage. Mr Hs redress was based, 
correctly, on him having regular premium PPI with a mortgage.
Final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman