DRN-1741703
 
The complaint
H complains that she was mis-sold a 'Survival Plan' critical illness policy by HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
What happened
H took out a new mortgage with HSBC in 2001. Alongside the new borrowing she was 
recommended the policy in question for a matching sum and term -  £83,500 over 15 years, 
paying a reviewable monthly premium starting at just under £27 per month. At the time H 
was in her late thirties, in full-time employment and single with no dependents. 
In 2020 H made a complaint to HSBC that the policy had been unnecessary. This was 
primarily because she'd had protection already provided by her employer - life cover and 
long-term sick pay - and she felt the potential for utilising her pension in the event of her 
becoming seriously ill hadn't been properly considered. She was also unhappy that 
the policy premiums had been reviewable. She said that if she been given the opportunity to 
look into the details of her pension provision she wouldn't have taken out the policy. 
HSBC didn't uphold the complaint as it felt the recommendation had been a suitable one for 
H given her circumstances at the time. It said it wouldn't have advised reliance upon existing 
pension provision for protection in the event of ill health as doing so could lead to a 
significant reduction in income in retirement. 
H didn't accept this and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator reached the 
same conclusion as HSBC, that the complaint shouldn't be upheld. In brief, she said;
The policy would've been useful for H and was suitable for her circumstances.
She didn't have any similar cover at the time and her other benefits would've been 
time limited.
There was a need identified for critical illness cover and it wasn't necessary to 
consider the pension situation. The policy would've paid out without any impact on 
the value of the pension. 
Some other insurance products were declined, indicating that H would've been aware 
that the policy was optional. 
The reviews of the policy premiums were brought to her attention in the sales 
documentation. 
H didn't accept the investigator's view and responded to say: 
The policy had been mis-sold.
She'd trusted the adviser and wasn't aware of the option to retire in the event of ill 
health. 
She had wanted the mortgage covered but this critical illness cover wasn't the only 
option.
A full fact find should have been completed prior to any recommendation. She'd struggled to pay the premiums and felt completely let down by HSBC.
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
It's quite normal for recommendations of life and/or critical cover to be made in conjunction 
with new mortgage borrowing. In H's case I can see from the documentation completed at 
the time that consideration was given to her specific circumstances and what cover she 
already had in place by virtue of her employment. 
As she was single and with no dependents, critical illness cover would have been useful for 
her in the event that she was diagnosed with one of the relevant conditions. It seems that 
this was discussed and an active decision made on her part to take the cover. 
That aside, I note that the focus of H's complaint now is the apparent failure by the adviser to 
give consideration to her pension provision as an alternative means to protecting her in the 
event of ill health. Although it's likely - but not definite - that there would've been some 
provision for ill health within the terms of her pension scheme, I don't think it would've been 
in any way equivalent to the benefit that the Survival Plan offered. 
Critical illness cover pays out a sum equivalent to the mortgage balance when a relevant 
illness is diagnosed. That sum is intended to pay off the mortgage, so reducing financial 
pressure at a difficult time and effectively increasing income to help during an extended 
period away from work. But the policyholder may wish to return to work once well, and to do 
so with their pension provision unaffected, ready to provide support as normal when 
retirement age is reached. 
The ill-health provision with a pension is very different. It would involve actually retiring on 
medical grounds because of an inability to continue with a career. Experiencing a critical 
illness is, of course, a very difficult and challenging experience. But it may well be the case 
that the policy holder is able to, and wishes to, return to work. H was many years from 
expected retirement when she took out the mortgage and Survival Plan. Had she 
unfortunately suffered a critical illness within the term of the policy she might well still have 
been in her 40s and keen to return to work once fully recovered, rather than retire. 
This being so, I think even if there had been discussion of the pension ill-health provisions 
(and generally I wouldn't expect to see this in connection with protecting a mortgage), on 
balance, H would've recognised the specific benefits of the Survival Plan and its differences 
and more likely than not have decided it was a suitable means to provide her with cover.
In respect of the policy reviews, this was a quite normal feature of this type of cover at the 
time and as it was pointed out to H in the sales documentation I don't think it can shown that 
HSBC acted incorrectly on this point.
In summary, I think this was a suitable recommendation for H given her circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman