DRN-4449925
The complaint
Mr F complains that Blue Motor Finance Limited (BMF) acted irresponsibly in agreeing to a 
car loan as he said he couldnt afford the repayments.
Mr F is represented by a third party for ease of reading I will only refer to Mr F in my 
decision.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr F entered into a Hire Purchase agreement for a car with a cash price of 
£14,174. Mr F made a deposit by part exchange of £650 and £100 cash, leaving a balance 
of £13,397. With added interest the total amount repayable was £19,504.60 payable by 
instalments of £218.76 over 85 months.
Mr F said hed maintained his monthly repayment but as hed little disposable income left 
after making the instalment, hed struggled to meet his other credit commitments. He 
complained to BMF as he didnt think the loan should have been agreed as he couldnt 
afford it.
BMF said they done proportionate and reasonable checks to make sure the loan was 
affordable for Mr F. This included checks with a credit reference agency, a comparison of Mr 
Fs debt against his income and his exposure to excessive debt. They said none of their 
checks highlighted any concerns with Mr Fs ability to repay the loan. And since it was 
approved Mr F has maintained his monthly instalments with no missed payments. They also 
said Mr F hadnt notified them at any time of struggling to meet his credit commitments.
Mr F wasnt happy with BMFs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mr F didnt have sufficient disposable income after the monthly 
repayment for the car loan was paid. And said that BMF should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay and transfer ownership of the car to  
Mr F.
Refund the deposit, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file regarding the 
agreement  if applicable
 If there remained any balance outstanding after the settlement had been calculated, 
BMF should arrange an affordable repayment plan. And to treat Mr F with 
forbearance and due consideration.
BMF didnt agree they said the income and expenditure presented by the investigator was 
flawed, and that Mr F did have sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the monthly 
repayments. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in October 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mr F but having done so Im currently minded to reach a different 
outcome to that of our investigator, and not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint. These are:
1. Did BMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mr F 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did BMF make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr F could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did BMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time BMF lent to Mr F required them to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning BMF need to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr F In other words, it wasnt enough for BMF to think only about the likelihood that they 
would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr F himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period)
So, Ive considered whether BMF in lending to Mr F had been thorough in the checks they 
made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to him.BMF said theyd carried out credit, employment, affordability and identity checks. They said 
Mr Fs credit file didnt show he was having any difficulty in repaying his existing financial 
commitments. BMF has provided the bureau data for Mr Fs financial history which showed 
hed a current account, a credit card with a £3,500 limit, a communications supplier and a 
loan for £61 per month. The loan account hadnt been updated for some time. I havent seen 
any evidence of any defaulted accounts or county court judgements. BMFs records also 
show that Mr F was married, an owner/occupier, and was employed with a monthly income 
around £1,500. BMF said as the repayment for the agreement was £218.76 this equated to 
15% of Mr Fs income, which they deemed affordable.
While BMF has said their checks didnt highlight any concerns, the information they obtained 
whilst it showed data about Mr Fs circumstances, given the duration (or likely duration) of 
the lending, this being 85 months I would have expected BMF to look further at Mr Fs actual 
financial situation as the agreement meant Mr F was indebted for an extended period.
This doesnt automatically mean BMF shouldnt have lent to Mr F, as I need to consider 
whether these checks would have shown that the repayments were unaffordable to Mr F  or 
in other words that he lost out because of BMFs failure to complete proportionate checks. I 
cant be sure exactly what BMF would have found out if theyd asked. In the absence of 
anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information set 
out in Mr Fs bank statements
Ive looked at Mr Fs bank statements from three months prior to the loan being approved. 
Mr Fs income comprised a monthly salary and monthly benefit payments of around £292. 
Over the three months I calculate Mr Fs average income (inclusive of benefits) to be £1,292, 
less than the £1,500 used by BMF in their assessment.
Ive also considered Mr Fs outgoings and have noted BMFs comments that it seems likely 
Mr F shared some expenses with his partner but as he was solely liable for this credit I dont 
think its fair to assume a level of contribution which would render the credit affordable.
BMF also commented about our investigator including £500 for rent as Mr F had said he was 
an owner occupier. And I agree that the regular monthly expenditure of £500 that Mr F paid 
each month wasnt rent, but Im persuaded it was his contribution towards the household 
expenditure such as mortgage and utilities.
I can also see that Mr F paid varying amounts, from £100 to £500 towards his credit card 
use. As the limit of the credit card was £3,500, Ive considered a minimum monthly amount - 
£105, which I think Mr F would have needed to pay if hed fully utilised his credit card limit, to 
be a fair assessment of his credit commitment each month. Taking these factors into 
account I can see Mr Fs average outgoings, which included food, petrol, insurance, mobile 
phone, and subscriptions equated to around £937 each month, which left him with an 
average disposable income of £355. Mr F in taking on the lending meant hed a further credit 
commitment to pay of £218.76 each month which would have reduced his disposable 
income to around £137, which Id consider showed the lending to be affordable.
But Mr Fs bank statements also show that he regularly made purchases through an online 
platform from around £73 to £180 each month. And at times was using his overdraft facility 
near to when he received his salary. But I can also see hed other sources of income which I 
think showed he was managing his finances. I havent seen any evidence that Mr F wasnt 
able to meet his credit commitments. And having considered everything, Im satisfied that 
the available information indicates that Mr F did have sufficient funds left over to make his 
monthly payments in a sustainable manner.
So while I dont think that BMFs checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr F went far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate 
checks wouldnt have prevented BMF from providing these funds, or entering into this 
agreement with him.
So I think BMF would have learnt through a proportionate check that Mr F had enough 
disposable income to afford the loan repayments and so I cant say they made an 
irresponsible or unfair lending decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F said he didnt think that after paying the loan repayment his disposable income was 
sufficient to cover any unexpected emergencies or for having a social life. He said hed 
provide his credit report to evidence this. BMF havent asked me to consider anything 
further.
Ive considered Mr Fs comments. The relevant rules, regulation and guidance all refer to a 
borrower being able to sustainably repay any credit provided. And being able to sustainably 
repay credit is described as doing so without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other 
commitments and without having to borrow further. And from the information I considered I 
think Mr F was able to sustain his repayments, as having taken into account his income and 
essential outgoings including the repayment for the new loan he still had I think sufficient 
disposable income. Ive also mentioned in my provisional decision that Mr F seemed to have 
other sources of income which I didnt take into account within his disposable income. But 
said that this evidenced Mr F was managing his finances. And so I think he was able to meet 
his other commitments without having to borrow further.
Mr F has mentioned his credit report but as outlined in my decision BMF had provided this 
data as this was a check they did at the time of the lending. I considered, in my provisional 
decision the information this showed about Mr Fs financial situation at the time he took out 
the loan. So, having considered Mr Fs comments, I havent been persuaded to change my 
thinking. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023. 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman