DRN-3347169
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc mishandled his chargeback request.
What happened 
In March 2021 Mr D says that he attempted to book a flight via an airlines website using the 
credit card he held with Santander. Unfortunately, there appeared to be a technical glitch 
with the website and although he provided his credit card details the booking didnt go 
through. Mr D attempted to book the seat four more times in total but didnt receive any 
booking confirmation. He says he also tried to book using another credit card in case the 
error was with the card itself but again the booking didnt go through.
Mr D says that around two days later, the second credit card that he had used credited back 
to his account the cost of the failed transaction. However, he discovered that the four earlier 
transactions had all been debited from his Santander credit account. Mr D says he contacted 
the airline who said that no payments had been received by them and that the money would 
be returned to his account. He says that he then waited around four weeks, but his account 
wasnt credited back. Mr D phoned Santander to claim a reimbursement of the £767.87 that 
had been charged to his account.
In April 2021 Santander sent Mr D a dispute form to complete. He ticked the box that his 
claim was for my goods and services werent received. He provided a short-handwritten 
explanation that the merchants website had returned a technical error, but the money had 
been deducted despite the merchant claiming verbally that no payment had been taken. Mr 
D also supplied a screenshot of a payment to a different airline.
After receiving Mr Ds dispute form, Santander wrote to him asking for additional information 
and sent Mr D a second disclaimer form to complete. The letter requested that within the 
next 14 working days he should provide a copy of the booking confirmation or provide a 
detailed description of the service purchased. The letter said that if this information wasnt 
provided Santander may not be able to pursue the claim and may have to close it.
Santander says it didnt hear anything from Mr D. In May 2021 Santander wrote again to Mr 
D saying that information was missing and that without this it wouldnt be able to progress 
his claim. It asked Mr D to call if he couldnt provide the information.
Unfortunately, Mr D says didnt receive this letter until much later after it had been posted 
due to an error by the postal service. Santander closed his claim. Mr D then contacted 
Santander to say he had received the second disclaimer but had provided all the information 
he could as no booking confirmation had been generated from the transactions.
Mr D complained to Santander who said in order to make a successful claim under the 
chargeback rules then the onus was on Mr D to provide sufficient evidence or information to 
support his dispute. It said this had been requested by sending out the second disclaimer, 
but Mr D hadnt completed that form. It said that it wasnt able to uphold Mr Ds complaint 
because he hadnt provided the required information.
Santander says that Mr D is now out of time for a chargeback claim to be made as more 
than 120 days have passed. It also says that because there was no contract created 
between Mr D and the airline then it cant raise a section 75 claim for the money to be 
reimbursed.
Mr D was unhappy at the response from Santander and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that although 
Mr D had set out the reasons for his claim when he had first phoned Santander about 
seeking a chargeback, it wasnt Santanders process for the chargeback team to listen to 
these initial calls. Santander said this was due to the sheer volume of calls that were 
received making this impractical.
Our investigator said it wasnt in the remit of this service to seek a business to change its 
processes. The process for a chargeback claim was for a disclaimer form to be sent to the 
consumer to complete, and this had been followed. She said although Mr D had completed 
this form further details had been required by Santander and so a second form had been 
sent out to him. Our investigator said this form clearly said that if the information wasnt 
provided then the claim would be closed. She said she thought Mr D had a responsibility to 
respond to this second form and he hadnt done so.
Although Mr D hadnt received the reminder letter saying information hadnt been received 
for some time after it had been sent, our investigator said this wasnt the fault of Santander. 
She said she thought Santander had dealt with Mr Ds chargeback claim in line with its 
process and it hadnt acted unfairly when closing his claim.
Mr D disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that when he completed the first 
disclaimer form, he had clearly said he had no additional information to provide. He says he 
also called Santander and explained the same thing, but it had still sent out the second form. 
Mr D says it is clear from the timings of the transactions that there had been some sort of 
technical glitch affecting the processing of his bookings. And that he had explained on the 
phone to Santander he couldnt provide the evidence of a booking. He said he couldnt have 
done any more than he had to support his claim.
Mr D also said that Santander had ignored that the other credit card account had reimbursed 
him; had failed to look at the evidence of the bookings which he believed showed there had 
been a glitch in the system; had failed to follow its own system; had failed to explain the 
system to him and that it had failed to contact the merchant to confirm that they hadnt 
received any funds.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made on the 
card through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card 
networks, which is either MasterCard or Visa. It allows customers to ask for a transaction 
to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no 
automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund. If 
Santander feels that a claim won't be successful, then it doesnt have to raise a 
chargeback. So, Santander isnt obliged to make a chargeback if it concludes that the 
chances of success would be remote.There are also strict time limits that apply to making a chargeback claim. Here, Mr D had 
120 days from the date the services werent provided.
The process that Santander followed is that if a consumer raises a chargeback request as 
Mr D did, they are required to complete a disclaimer form setting out the basis for their 
claim and a description of what happened. Looking at the disclaimer form completed by Mr 
D, Ive seen that he has marked the box that his claim concerns goods or services not 
received. There is then information provided in a table below as to what information is 
required to support this type of claim. This sets out that Mr D needs to provide the 
following; the date of the event, the date goods/services should have been received; 
details of contact with retailer (including correspondence if available) and detailed 
description of goods/services ordered including copy of invoice, booking or order 
confirmation. There is then a box to be completed by Mr D to give the detailed description 
of what had happened.
Although I appreciate Mr D wasnt able to provide any booking confirmation for the airline 
tickets due to the technical glitch, I dont think he provided sufficient detailed information 
as to the events that had led to his claim. It appears from the way Mr D had completed the 
information box that he was probably relying on the information hed provided during his 
initial phone call in addition to the form. But, as explained by Santander, the chargeback 
team dealing with his claim didnt have access to that call, and only worked with the form. 
And although I appreciate Mr D may not have been aware of that, I think the form was 
clear about what was required from Mr D and the level of detail he needed to include.
Mr D says that it was clear from the timings of the four transactions that there must have 
been a technical glitch. He also says that the refund hed received from the other credit 
card company and his booking of a further ticket confirmed the problem hed encountered. 
But I dont agree this information alone was sufficient. I dont think the four transactions 
showing on the same day in a short space of time to the same airline company are 
sufficient in themselves to support that no service was provided, nor is the evidence that 
hed provided as to purchasing another ticket from a different airline since other than the 
purchase no details are shown. I also havent seen any evidence as to the other credit 
card providing a refund, this wasnt included in the disclaimer form completed by Mr D that 
I have seen. Mr D also hasnt sent anything to this service which shows such a 
reimbursement was made. But, even if this evidence had been provided to Santander, I 
dont think a reimbursement by another credit card provider for a similar transaction on the 
same date would be enough to show that these four transactions should also be 
reimbursed for a service that wasnt then provided.
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly that Santander should have approached the airline service 
and made enquiries, but it is for Mr D to support his claim not for Santander to seek out 
the evidence. Looking at the amount of information that Mr D had provided on his 
disclaimer form, I think Santander acted fairly and reasonably by sending him a second 
disclaimer form to complete with a more detailed description of the events.
Mr D says as he didnt hear anything about his claim for some weeks, he called Santander 
and there was a heated exchange with one of its agents. Mr D says that he was told he 
needed to provide more information but argued he wasnt able to. He says that it was after 
this call that the second disclaimer form was sent, although there appears to have been a 
delay in its delivery. However, this delay in the second disclaimer form reaching him was 
due to an error by the postal service and not Santander. 
I think Mr D maybe mistaken with his chronology of events and Im also unclear which 
letters sent by Santander reached Mr D or reached him late. However, Im satisfied that 
any issues with delivery of letters to Mr D werent due to any actions by Santander. 
Looking at Santanders notes, Ive seen that a second disclaimer form was sent in April 
2021 together with a letter. And this was before Mr D rang Santander in May 2021 to complain about not hearing anything about his claim. The accompanying letter had set out 
that Mr D needed to provide more information in support of his claim. This letter said, 
Please provide a copy of the booking confirmation or provide a detailed description of the 
service purchased. And I think thats clear that if Mr D couldnt provide the booking 
confirmation, his chargeback claim could still proceed if he provided more detailed 
information in accordance with the requirements that were set out in the disclaimer form 
when claiming for services that hadnt been provided.
Mr D says that he had nothing further to add to his first disclaimer form and had given all 
the details that he could. And Ive seen that Mr D didnt complete and return the second 
disclaimer form to Santander. The April letter also said that if the information wasnt 
provided then Santander wont be able to pursue Mr Ds claim and it may be closed. So, I 
think Santander had explained to Mr D what the consequences of not replying might be.
Ive seen that Santander wrote again to Mr D in May 2021 chasing up the missing 
information. It appears that this letter may have either not been received or received late 
by Mr D due to a fault by the postal service. However, as Mr D hadnt heard from 
Santander, he then contacted it by phone. I think its more likely than not that this is when 
Mr D had his heated exchange about him not being able to provide further information. 
Although I dont know what was said exactly between the parties Santander followed this 
conversation with a letter at the end of May 2021. 
This letter from Santander explained it had closed Mr Ds complaint because he hadnt 
provided sufficient evidence or information to support his claim. This letter repeated the 
wording of the letter sent in April 2021, in that Mr D had needed to provide either a copy of 
the booking confirmation or a detailed description of the service provided. 
Mr D doesnt appear to have contacted Santander, but if he had then at that time, he 
would have still been within the time limit to make a chargeback claim. Unfortunately, he is 
now out of time to do so.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr D, Im not upholding his 
complaint as I think Santander dealt with his chargeback claim fairly. It had repeatedly 
asked him to provide a detailed description of what had happened, what hed done 
(including speaking with the retailer) and any supporting documentation. But Mr D hadnt 
provided the required information. Santander had also been clear to Mr D as what the 
consequences of not providing the information would be.
I also agree with Santanders view that the chargeback claim is not out of time. Ive seen 
no claim could be made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 because this 
situation didnt fulfil the criteria. I agree with the approach taken by Santander as this 
appears to have been a failed transaction and so there was no contract created between 
Mr D and the airline.
As set out above I think it was reasonable of Santander to consider the details Mr D had 
provided on the first disclaimer form werent adequate. And although I appreciate some of 
the letters sent by Santander didnt arrive promptly I think its reasonable to say that its 
likely some did and that Mr D hadnt responded because he didnt consider he had 
anything to add which was incorrect. I think Santander had been clear in its 
correspondence that it wasnt just seeking a copy of the booking confirmation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman