DRN-2290660
The complaint
Miss P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC wont refund a payment she made.  
What happened
In February 2019, Miss P responded to an online advert looking for models. The company 
(which Ill call N) invited her to a photoshoot to see if they would take Miss P onto their 
modelling platform with the aim of getting her paid work in the modelling industry. Miss P 
paid a £50 deposit using her Tesco credit card to secure the photoshoot session. She was 
told this deposit was refundable on the day of the shoot. 
Miss P attended the photoshoot and says she was pressured into paying a further £825 for a 
package of photos. She says N1 told her that she had passed their modelling assessment 
and had been selected as one of their models. She says they wouldnt sign her up to their 
modelling platform unless she paid for the portfolio first. She says she had to decide there 
and then as the photos would otherwise be deleted and they only had space for a small 
number of new models. She says if she didnt pay, N said the opportunity would be lost. 
Shortly after the photoshoot N sent Miss P a link to the photos. Miss P complained to N 
about the quality of the photos and asked for her money back. N responded to say the 
contract wasnt cancellable. A few weeks later Miss P raised further concerns with N about 
her being the victim of a scam. She says she had signed up to a similar contract (although 
for a much larger sum of money) with another modelling platform at around the same time. 
However, that arrangement had turned out to be a scam and was sold and marketed in the 
same way as Ns services.  
N didnt agree to a refund, so Miss P approached Tesco for help getting her money back. 
Tesco said it wouldnt raise a chargeback with the card scheme because it didnt think there 
was any prospect of success. This was because Miss Ps signed contract with N said she 
had only paid for photos, which she had received. It said there were limited grounds to raise 
a chargeback and it appeared she had received what she paid for. Further, as the 
chargeback scheme didnt allow for disputes about the quality of goods or services, it said it 
wouldnt be successful. 
Tesco therefore considered whether it would be liable under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (S75) for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by N. It said that as 
Miss P had received what was stated on the paperwork she signed there was no breach of 
contract, nor did it think there was any evidence of a misrepresentation. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She was persuaded that N had 
misrepresented its services to Miss P and it would therefore be fair for Tesco to refund her. 
Further, she didnt think Tesco had acted fairly by not attempting a chargeback at all. She 
highlighted that the card scheme would have allowed Tesco to make a chargeback attempt 
and given the wider evidence and testimony Miss P had provided around Ns services being 
1 There were a number of different business trading names used in the various interactions Miss P 
had regarding the photoshoot and modelling platform. For ease, Ive referred to just N throughout as 
this is who Miss P contracted with. 
a scam, Tesco ought to have robustly pursued the chargeback process. She said Tesco 
should rework Miss Ps credit card as if the payments to N hadnt happened, adding 8% 
simple interest on any credit balance that reworking might create. 
Tesco didnt agree. In summary, it said:
The findings have been based on Miss Ps recollection of events being plausible with 
no supporting evidence being provided of a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
While verbal misrepresentations can be considered, nothing has been provided to 
back up what Miss P has said. 
There is no evidence to suggest N was operating a scam. N is still trading and was 
willing to re-send the pictures to Miss P. 
Concerning the chargeback, it is irrelevant what representations were made to 
Miss P as a chargeback is won or lost on the quality of the documentation provided. 
In this case the contract says she only signed up to buy photos and this is what was 
provided.
Any representations made about a modelling platform have nothing to do with the 
contract Miss P entered into with N which concerned photos and nothing more. The 
modelling platform appears to have been free and provided as an entirely unrelated 
service. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general effect of S75 is that Miss P can make a like claim against Tesco (as the provider 
of credit) for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by N, provided that certain 
conditions are met. For completeness, Im satisfied those conditions are satisfied here. 
Having thought about the specific circumstances and evidence available here, Im 
persuaded, on balance, that N did likely falsely represent its services Miss P, and it was 
these false representations that induced her to enter into a contract she otherwise wouldnt 
have done. On this basis I think it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco to now put things 
right. Ill explain why. 
Miss P has provided us with copies of the emails she received from N prior to her 
photoshoot. N told Miss P that she had applied to them (for a modelling opportunity), had 
passed that application and was now invited to a test shoot. It stated that there were no 
joining fees to their modelling platform if she was successful during the test shoot. It said 
they had a 96% success rate for getting models into paid work and were the only five star 
modelling platform in the UK. It said they were only looking for three models in Miss Ps age 
range.
Miss P says she understood that so long as she was successful at the test shoot, she would 
be added onto Ns modelling platform with no charge. This is supported by the emails N sent 
to Miss P. However, Miss P says that after the test shoot, she was told she was required to 
pay for a portfolio otherwise N wouldnt accept her to the platform. Miss N says she was 
pressured into paying for the portfolio without being given the time to think about the 
purchase as she was told the opportunity would be gone and the photos deleted if she left to think about it. Miss P says she only agreed to purchase the portfolio because of this and 
because N had given her assurances about the exposure and work she would receive by 
being on their platform. 
While I cant be certain exactly what was discussed, Im persuaded by what Miss P has said. 
I say this because she has been credible and consistent throughout her communications 
with N, Tesco and our service about what she says happened. The specific details she has 
provided about what happened are also consistent with modelling scams reported by Action 
Fraud, the media and what our service has seen. 
I note that the language used in the communications by N with Miss P support that it was 
positioning itself as a market leader with several years of experience and an almost 100% 
record of getting models into paid work. However, there appear some anomalies with the 
communications Miss P received from N, including:
In its communications it set out it had been successfully working with models for 
significantly more years than the company had existed. 
It used a number of different trading names, often making it very unclear which 
business was offering which service. Its email signatures frequently contained 
different business names compared to the email address it was sent from. 
The websites N had listed at the bottom of its emails are no longer being used and 
are not working.
Tesco says that the modelling platform didnt form part of the contract Miss P signed with N. 
I disagree. I think its very clear from the communications N had sent to Miss P prior to the 
shoot that the entire purpose of its relationship with Miss P was to do with the modelling 
platform. The photoshoot was simply an assessment to see if they would take her on as a 
client. The communications make it clear that there was no expectation on Miss P to pay for 
the shoot or pay any joining fees for the platform. 
Given what Miss P has said, Im persuaded that she was most likely told she was required to 
purchase the photos on the day of the shoot in order to sign up to the platform and that the 
provision of the platform formed part of the contract she signed even if it wasnt explicitly 
mentioned in the signed contract. 
I accept that the written representations about the platform itself are not possible to be tested 
(e.g. the success rate of models), however its clear N did make false statements for example 
about how long it had been trading. As it had provided false information about this (which is 
something that could easily be verified) I find it more likely its other statements were also 
false or misleading. Im therefore persuaded N did make false statements to Miss P which 
more likely than not induced her into entering into a contract she otherwise wouldnt have. 
Even if Im wrong and there was no misrepresentation, it seems there has been a breach of 
contract by N. This is because the modelling platform that was promised to Miss P as part of 
the contract does not exist. Its not clear when the website was taken down, but it doesnt 
appear to have been functioning for a long period of time. So, it seems that N hasnt 
provided the services it had agreed to provide to Miss P. Nor does it appear it ever put 
Miss P forward for any modelling work.  
I can see N did provide the photographs to Miss P as set out in the written contract. 
However, I dont think Miss P has received any meaningful benefit of these. Shes told us 
that she is now signed up to a legitimate modelling agency who have told her the photos and 
recommendations made by N werent suitable for a modelling portfolio. Further, Im satisfied Miss P only purchased the photos because she believed it was the only way to obtain work 
through Ns modelling platform. As Ive set out above, this platform doesnt exist and hasnt 
for an extended period of time, so Miss P hasnt had any material benefit from the photos. 
For these reasons, I think it would be fair for Tesco to refund the purchase in full. 
Like the investigator, I also think Tesco acted unfairly in not robustly pursuing a chargeback 
further. I agree with the investigator that a route through chargeback appears to have been 
available and Miss P had provided sufficient information for one to be attempted. Given she 
had said she was a victim of a scam I think Tesco ought to have made reasonable attempts 
to recover her money. However, Im disappointed to see it didnt do so here. 
In any event, as Ive found that Tesco should have upheld her claim and complaint under 
S75, I dont think its necessary to now consider whether a chargeback would likely have 
been successful or not. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to:
Rework the credit card account as if Miss P hadnt made the payments totalling £875. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, Tesco should add 8% simple interest per 
year for the duration of any credit balance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman