DRN-4033932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were on holiday when Mrs B fell and broke both her wrists and her left knee. 
She was taken to the local hospital and treated for her injuries. Mr B called Aviva to tell it 
what had happened. Aviva initiated the claims procedure and asked whether they wanted to 
return to the UK, but Mr B said its likely theyd want to continue their journey as theyd 
planned to travel across America. And so, Mr and Mrs B wanted to continue their journey, 
however, they asked that Aviva arrange for Mrs B to have a full cast put on both arms when 
they arrived at Los Angeles. 
Mr and Mrs B said Aviva didnt offer enough support or any meaningful, proactive contact 
throughout the handling of their claim. Mr B said the situation was so stressful that he had 
two panic attacks because he was the sole carer for his wife during that time. Mr and Mrs B 
said Aviva delayed getting the medical reports, which in turn, delayed their repatriation to the 
UK. Mr and Mrs B said they ended up having to arrange their own flights home, as well as 
arranging surgery for Mrs Bs injuries privately upon their return. They would like Aviva to 
cover her treatment costs and pay £10,000 compensation for the overall upset caused. 
Aviva acknowledged it could have offered better service than it did. It said there were times 
when communication could have been better and it also acknowledged the stress its actions 
caused Mr B. It offered £500 compensation and an apology. It cited a miscommunication as 
the reason for ceasing to discuss the case with Mr B personally whilst they were away.  
Our investigator didnt think Avivas offer went far enough to resolve the issue. He said Aviva 
should increase its offer of compensation to £800 as he felt this fairly acknowledged the 
substantial distress, upset and worry Avivas actions caused. 
Aviva accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr and Mrs B disagreed. In 
summary, they said the distress was so severe that they feel £10,000 compensation is more 
reflective of the distress and inconvenience Avivas actions caused. And so, its for me to 
make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and for the same reasons given by our investigator. 
Im also satisfied with the compensation awarded by our investigator because I think its fair 
in the circumstances and so I wont be increasing it. Ill explain why. 
Theres a wealth of information thats been provided by both parties, all of which Ive 
reviewed prior to making my final decision. Ive not listed everything thats happened here, 
because both parties are aware of the background to this complaint. Instead, Ive focussed 
solely on the arguments that I believe are central to the outcome I should also say the test 
here is whether Aviva has handled Mr and Mrs Bs claim fairly. Under the insurance conduct 
of business sourcebook (ICOBS) Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims fairly and 
promptly and must not reject or avoid claims unfairly. 
I was sorry to learn of Mrs Bs injuries following her fall whilst on holiday. I wanted to 
acknowledge the upset this undoubtedly caused, given this was a special holiday that I 
expect took a lot of planning. Mr and Mrs B were in a remote location on the other side of the 
world which, compounded by Mrs Bs injuries, made it even more difficult to seek appropriate 
treatment. Mr and Mrs B initially wanted to continue their trip, despite her injuries, however, it 
became clear that this wasnt possible. Mrs B was unable to walk owing to a broken kneecap 
or use her arms because of her broken wrists. Mrs B was also unable to administer her own 
self care following the accident.  
To make things clearer, Ive given a brief timeline of events.
9 February 2022  Mrs B fell outside the shopping mall. She was taken to hospital 
and casts put on. It was advised she seek treatment at another hospital via an 
orthopaedic surgeon. Mr and Mrs B left hospital with a fit to fly certificate and an x-ray 
disc showing her injuries. But they didnt have a medical report. The hospital said it 
would take a week to provide one. Mr and Mrs B were due to fly to LA on 15 
February.
10 February  discussion with Aviva about the possibility to returning home earlier 
than originally planned. Also explored the possibility of having treatment in LA  
which Aviva said it could potentially support. It also said itd need a medical report 
before it could decide how best to move forward. 
13 February  Aviva spoke with its medical team and decided Mr and Mrs B should 
return to the UK, given the seriousness of her injuries. This came as a surprise to Mr 
and Mrs B because Aviva didnt share this. Mr B initially didnt want to leave, 
however, conceded it was for the best given Aviva wouldnt support them with cover 
should they have continued their trip. Mr B explained he was struggling to cope with 
looking after Mrs B and requested a change of hotel. Aviva didnt initially support this 
as there was a lift facility at their current hotel. However, it changed its position 
following subsequent discussions with Mr B and agreed to arrange new 
accommodation and the transfers. Aviva also agreed to source carers for Mrs B.  
14 February  Mr B had a panic attack. A new hotel was arranged and so too were 
the transfers. There were issues with this because the taxi didnt arrive until after the 
agreed time. This was owing to an earlier transfer that took more time than initially 
thought. Aviva didnt tell Mr and Mrs B about the delay, which caused further upset 
and confusion about what was happening. 
15 February  an appointment was arranged with the hospital so Mr and Mrs B could 
obtain a medical report. There were issues with the transport arranged by Aviva. The 
taxi couldnt collect them from the hotel entrance, and it was very late, which caused 
them to miss the scheduled appointment time. Aviva was also unable to source a 
nurse to administer care for Mrs B. Mr and Mrs B asked Aviva for a detailed itinerary 
of how it planned to get them home. 
16 February  Aviva completed the itinerary and received medical clearance from the 
airline that it could repatriate Mr and Mrs B on 20 February with the appropriate nurse 
escorts. Another appointment was made with an orthopaedic surgeon. He 
recommended Mrs B have bilateral distal surgery, but Aviva didnt agree, stating itd need a medical report to better understand the reason this treatment couldnt be 
done it the UK. Mr and Mrs B were still without a nurse escort and Mr B explained if 
this wasnt arranged immediately, then theyd arrange their own return to the UK. No 
nursing care was put in place and so Mr B said hed arrange their own repatriation.
17 February  Aviva said itd need Mrs B to give consent for medical records to be 
released so it could decide whether cover for the proposed treatment was available. 
However, it learned Mr and Mrs B had not extended their stay at the hotel and had in 
fact arranged their own return to the UK.    
When Mrs B injured herself on 9 February she was given back slab casts to allow for the 
swelling of her injuries. The hospital said these casts were also suitable for flight. They were 
told by the treating surgeon that Mrs B was able to continue the trip, provided she received 
surgery within three weeks of sustaining her injuries. She was also given a fit to fly certificate 
and an x-ray disc to give to the intended treating surgeon. Its important to note that Mr and 
Mrs B werent intending to return to the UK until 15 March 2022 and although they were 
planning to travel around as part of their trip, they hadnt booked any other hotels, other than 
the one they were currently in. Mr and Mrs B wanted to receive the treatment in LA, as that 
was their next intended destination. 
On 11 February, two days after the accident, Mr B told Aviva that Mrs B was immobile and 
unable to do anything on her own. He explained that she couldnt look after herself and that 
she was totally dependant on him for everything, including helping her go to the toilet. I think 
its fair to say that although Mr B wanted to continue with the trip, it ought to have become 
reasonably clear that wasnt going to happen. I think Aviva ought to have realised that too 
simply based on the medical evidence it had at the time and Mr Bs testimony about Mrs Bs 
capabilities. 
Aviva said itd review the situation and see whether it could support treatment in LA. But 
instead, two days later 13 February, it told Mr and Mrs B it was medically viable to curtail the 
trip. Aviva had discussed the case with its medical team and reached that decision. Mr and 
Mrs B didnt know Aviva would be discussing their case with the medical team and so this 
came as a surprise. I think Aviva could have been more open about the actions it was taking 
at the time so that Mr and Mrs B could have been better prepared.     
I think Aviva could have given a decision on the necessity to curtail the trip sooner than it 
did. Although I accept Mr and Mrs B didnt have a medical report when they left the hospital, 
they still had a fit to fly certificate, as well as an x-ray disc detailing her injuries. Im satisfied 
Aviva could have requested this information and considered it, alongside the fit to fly 
certificate with its in-house medical team. Doing that could have potentially solved the delays 
associated with the hospital issuing the medical report. 
It was decided on 13 February, some four days after the accident, it was medically 
necessary to curtail their trip because of the significance of Mrs Bs injuries. I think this 
decision should have happened sooner than it did.  
I also didnt think it appropriate that Aviva expect Mr and Mrs B to travel back to the hospital 
to obtain the medical report. Id have expected Aviva to try every way it could to obtain it, 
rather than asking Mr and Mrs B to. I think given the significance of Mrs Bs injuries it could 
have thought more about the impact this undoubtedly had on them both. Its important to 
remember both Mr and Mrs B are elderly and were in a foreign country and now with severe 
mobility issues. This understandably had an impact on their mental wellbeing, as 
demonstrated by Mr Bs panic attacks, which subsequently occurred following what he 
perceived to be a lack of care and responsibility offered by Aviva. I think Aviva should have 
made every effort to source medical reports itself so it could assess their situation and whether it was appropriate for Mrs B to continue the trip and whether she was fit to fly. 
I note when Aviva realised the trip would need to be curtailed, the relationship between it 
and Mr B had severely suffered. Aviva thought Mr B had told it not to contact him again, and 
whilst he was frustrated during that conversation, I think it should have perhaps politely 
ended the call and followed up with an email the next day. Aviva, instead, contacted a third-
party linked to Mr and Mrs B to discuss the issue. I can see that it did this with good 
intentions and Im satisfied the overall aim here was to figure out how Aviva would ultimately 
get Mr and Mrs B home, given contact had broken down. 
Unfortunately, it wasnt handled in the right way and this resulted in further upset for Mr and 
Mrs B. Im aware of the conversations that took place and what was discussed between 
Aviva and the third-party. Im satisfied the metaphorical line of professionality was crossed 
during some of those conversations.
I note it wasnt until 17 February that Aviva requested consent from Mrs B to release her 
medical records so it could attempt to validate the proposed treatment of bilateral distal 
surgery. I thought this delay was unnecessary and that Aviva should have obtained this 
much sooner than it did. I accept it may not have had a direct impact on Mrs B because she 
returned to the UK shortly after, however, Im satisfied it contributed to the overall lack of 
trust she had in Aviva. 
Overall, I consider the £800 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused 
because it is reasonable. I still consider the errors to have had a significant impact on Mr and 
Mrs B, but Im not persuaded that £10,000 is a fair award in the circumstances. Im satisfied 
£800 is fair and reasonable and I should also say its in line with our compensatory 
guidelines. I dont consider this to have had an on-going, or lasting impact on Mr and Mrs Bs 
health, nor have I seen any medical evidence to suggest that Mrs B has experienced a 
severe disruption to her daily life because of Aviva. Therefore, I dont think its fair to 
increase the award in these circumstances as Im satisfied £800 is fair and reasonable. I 
note Mr and Mrs Bs comments about their trip being ruined, but its important to remember 
the accident is the primary cause of that, which wasnt Avivas fault. 
Aviva still managed to get things right in places. It agreed to move Mr and Mrs B to another 
hotel, it attempted to arrange for nurses to help care for Mrs B  albeit this proved a 
challenge given the remoteness of their location at the time and availability of appropriate 
nurses. When Aviva realised the trip would need to be curtailed, it began looking into 
suitable return flights and medical escorts to accompany Mrs B on those flights. I accept this 
was a difficult task and I dont think it fair to hold Aviva responsible for the challenges 
associated with this. Mrs B also needed to travel on a flight that had a bed facility, and not 
simply a reclining chair, owing to the knee injury. And so, that flight wasnt available until 21 
February. Im satisfied this was the earliest flight it could arrange that could cater to Mrs Bs 
needs. 
I note Mr and Mrs B ended up arranging their own flights at an earlier date, but this was 
without a medical escort. I think, given that Mr B would have needed to care for Mrs B whilst 
she was on the return flight, Aviva should cover the cost for both Mr and Mrs B. Ive seen 
evidence that this has already happened and so theres no further award for me to make 
here. I should also highlight that Aviva had made arrangements to extend Mr and Mrs Bs 
stay at their new hotel to carry them through to the intended date of departure. 
Further, Im aware of the costs already paid by Aviva  they are £29,093.67. Having carefully 
considered the breakdown of this figure, Im satisfied Aviva has covered all eligible costs in 
line with the policy terms. I should also say that I wouldnt have expected Aviva to cover 
gratuity costs incurred by Mr and Mrs B, despite it being culturally customary.  Im satisfied with Avivas decision not to pay for Mrs Bs treatment when she returned to the 
UK as the policy doesnt cover treatment costs in their home country. This is a travel 
insurance policy with medical expenses attached to it, intended to cover treatment abroad. 
Im aware Mrs B received treatment at a private hospital when she returned to the UK, but 
Im not satisfied this was medically necessary. I say that because Ive seen no persuasive 
medical evidence to explain why she couldnt have received treatment using the NHS 
through A&E admission. Mrs B was told by the treating doctor abroad that she had three 
weeks to complete the surgery and so she could have been treated by the NHS as Ive 
explained. I understand the decision made by Mr and Mrs B to receive private medical care, 
but Aviva doesnt have to pay for that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs B £800 compensation 
for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman