DRN-1715803
 
The complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK plc didnt give her the full information about the interest 
that may apply to her balance transfer credit card, if she also used it to make purchases.
What happened
In March 2019, Ms F took out a credit card with Santander. She applied for it through a 
branch after speaking with an adviser. The main purpose of the credit card was so that she 
could transfer balances from her other credit cards, but she was told that shed also be able 
to use it for purchases.
The credit card had an introductory interest rate of 0% for the first three months for 
purchases and for the first 27 months for balance transfers.
After the account was opened, Ms F transferred the balances she had on her other credit 
cards onto the Santander card. And she did this each month after that, but she didnt use her 
card for a purchase until September 2019, when she used it for two transactions.
Ms F had a direct debit set up to pay a fixed amount to the account each month, but she 
made a separate payment to the card to cover the amount of the purchases shed made. Her 
husband called Santander to ask how the payment would be applied to the balance. And he 
was told that it was advisable to keep the credit card for balance transfers only, rather than 
also using it for purchases.
Ms Fs husband then queried this, and was told that her full billed balance, including the 
balance transfers, would need to be paid off to avoid paying interest on those purchases.
Ms F complained as she said shed never been told this when she applied in the branch. 
Shed called Santander to process some of her balance transfers and had completed some 
online, but wasnt warned that if she also used the card for purchases she would be charged 
interest.
Ms F needed to take out another credit card elsewhere to transfer the balance from her 
Santander card so she wouldnt have to pay interest, which she felt caused her stress and 
anxiety.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Ms F had applied for her credit card on a non-advised basis, so Santander was 
responsible for giving her enough information to make an informed choice about taking out 
the card. He said she'd been given the key facts document for the credit card, along with its 
terms and conditions, and these set out the interest rates applying and how payments to the 
balance would be allocated. The investigator thought Ms F had been given the correct 
information, and said that he didnt think she needed to transfer the entire balance on her 
card as shed paid the amount of the purchases shed made using it.Ms F didnt accept the investigators findings. She said shed thought the same  that she 
could avoid paying interest on the purchases by making a payment to the credit card to 
cover the amount of them. But Santander had told her interest would be charged on the 
purchases if the full billed balance wasnt paid off by the due date. Ms F said that the terms 
and conditions were misleading, and she shouldve been given more information in the 
branch when she applied for the card.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2020. And I reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator in that I thought Santander had given Ms F enough 
information to understand how interest could be incurred by the way she chose to use the 
credit limit on her card, however my understanding of the charging of this interest where a 
balance remains on that card was different to that set out by the investigator.
I said that the terms and conditions of this credit card, which Ms F agreed to accept, set out 
the introductory interest rate of 0% on purchases for the first three months and 0% on 
balance transfers for the first 27 months after account opening. After the applying 
promotional period ended, an interest rate of 18.9% a year would be charged on these 
transactions.
However, Ms F felt that the impact of using the card to make purchases after the first three 
months when she'd already transferred other credit card balances onto it wasnt made 
clear to her. And she used the card for two purchases after the 0% promotional rate for them 
had expired.
I looked at the key facts document for the credit card account, and said this did say that 
payments towards a balance would be allocated to the different amounts of the statemented 
balance that are charged at a higher interest rate before those that are charged at a lower 
interest rate. I said that when Ms Fs statemented balance was solely made up of her 
balance transfers, these were still within the 0% introductory interest rate. The purchases 
she made using the card in September would be charged at 18.9%  which I said was 
clearly a higher rate than applying to the balance transfers.
But I said that the key facts document also explained that payments would go to the older 
statemented balance first: Allocation of payments - If you do not pay off your balance in full, 
payments we receive are applied to the highest interest bearing transactions first. We will 
pay off balances that are already on your statement before any new transactions.
And later in the document, under section 7 Allocation of Payments, it said Because 
payments are applied first against Transactions already shown on your statement, if you 
want to pay off a recent Transaction (for example a Cash Transaction) you would first need 
to pay off the statemented balance.
I said that although the example given was of a cash transaction; this would also apply to 
purchases if they were the more recent transaction, as in Ms Fs circumstances.
So I said that, even though Ms F had made a payment that covered the amount of her 
purchases the following day, this wouldnt mean that this amount would be deemed as 
paying off those purchase transactions for the purposes of avoiding being charged interest 
on them. The full statemented (billed) balance is one amount; it isnt separated by the 
transaction type. The payment she made would go towards the balance that was already on 
her account before she used the card for those purchases. I said I thought this was why Ms F was told that she would need to clear the full balance, 
including that made up of the balance transfers shed completed, so that she wouldnt incur 
any interest.
I said that my understanding and explanation of the terms and conditions of the card, and 
specifically the way that payments towards the balance are allocated, is different to that of 
the investigator. And I could see that this interpretation is what Ms F initially thought too.
But I didnt think this in itself meant that the terms were unclear, or that Santander should 
have specifically told Ms F that using it for both purchases and balance transfers meant that 
interest may be incurred, when this was explained in the account documentation.
Ms F had the card for a number of months before she used it to make the purchases she 
did. And through that time, shed only used it for balance transfers. The 0% interest on 
purchases applied for the three-month period after account opening, so I said it was 
reasonable to think that Ms F wouldve been aware that this had ended when she made the 
purchases, and wouldve known that she didnt intend on paying off her balance in full.
And Ms F was able to use the card for purchases, and could combine them with transferring 
balances if she wished. I didnt think that she was given the wrong information about how 
she could choose to use her credit card account.
The terms set out that purchases have a maximum of 56 days interest-free period if the 
balance is paid in full and on time. This information was also shown on the monthly 
statements:Interest is calculated and charged daily therefore interest payments will increase 
the longer payment is delayed. You will not pay interest on new purchases if you pay your 
balance in full and on time each month. If your account is not paid in full, interest will be 
charged on the daily balance and not just the outstanding balance. If you have not paid your 
balance in full in the previous month, you may receive a further interest charge in the 
following month even if you have paid your balance in the current month in full.
Overall, I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The responses
Santander responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
Ms F didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms F nor Santander have provided any further submissions in response to my 
provisional decision; I see no reason to depart from the conclusions that I reached in it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Cathy BovanOmbudsman