DRN-4151718
The complaint
In summary, Mr J complains that a lump sum payment to him from his pension was delayed 
by Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL), trading as Interactive Investor. 
What happened
On 19 August 2022, Mr J submitted an online application to IISL to take a pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS) from his pension, utilising Flexi-Access Drawdown. As 
part of the application process IISL asked Mr J to complete a pension benefit questionnaire. 
Mr J did this and elected not to take any income from the remaining fund. 
IISL confirmed receipt of Mr Js request on 19 August 2022 and issued him a benefit request 
summary document the same day. This informed Mr J that documents issued to his online 
account were an illustration showing the benefits he had requested, pension summary of the 
SIPP, personalised risk warnings based on his benefit questionnaire answers, a reminder of 
his open market options, a money helper fact sheet, risk warnings he had been provided 
with before he started his benefit request, a summary of the key assumptions and personal 
data used and a leaflet explaining his investment options. 
It also contained a Lifetime Allowance (LTA) declaration which included details of previous 
pension benefits he had taken in 2017/2018. It said that unless he disagreed with anything in 
the declaration or needed to change his LTA declaration, there was nothing else he needed 
to do. It went on to say that if there was a problem with his request or if it needed additional 
information before it could process it, it would be in touch. 
No further information was requested from Mr J. His benefit payment request was 
processed, and payment of the PCLS made to Mr J on 26 August 2022. When Mr J received 
the payment, he questioned the amount he had been paid as it was less than he was 
expecting. 
On 30 August 2022, IISL sent Mr J a summary of the retirement benefits he had taken. And 
it enclosed a benefit crystallisation event (BCE) statement which showed the percentage of 
the LTA that had been used up. This said that a type 1 BCE and a type 6 BCE took place on 
24 August 2022. 
In response to Mr Js concerns IISL said the illustration provided an overview of his account 
at that time. But the BCE took place during the processing of his request which could take 5-
10 working days to complete. When the BCE took place, the value of his SIPP changed. 
In response, Mr J asked why the value of his funds at the time of the request couldnt be 
used. His decision simply seemed to trigger the request for action by its team who 
recalculated the request 5-10 working days later. He couldnt see why the value could not be 
captured at the time of the request or within a trading day of it.
In its final response IISL said the BCE took place during the processing of his request which 
could take 5-10 days to complete. It also said the benefit request had been processed using 
the illustration date of 24 August 2022 with payment made on 26 August 2022. It went on to 
say that page 16 of the illustration explained that the amounts shown werent guaranteed. It 
had credited his account with £50 as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr Js concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they 
thought the value of Mr Js pension at the time his request to take benefits was received, 
should have been used to calculate the value of Mr Js PCLS. 
In response to the investigators view, IISL said it was following the guidance laid down by 
legislation and HMRC guidelines. It said its key facts illustration stated that the figures 
quoted werent guaranteed. It referred to PTM088200 in HMRCs pension tax manual (PTM) 
in respect of the lifetime allowance charge and benefit crystallisation events. And it said for 
BCE1 the date of the BCE is the date the funds are designated as being able to provide the 
member with a drawdown pension. It went on to say that it was the actual point the funds 
were available to be designated to provide benefits that was relevant. 
In addition, it said HMRCs note under PTM088400 set out that where the benefits were 
being taken by the member, the benefits crystalising for lifetime allowance purposes would 
be the actual entitlements the member ends up with under the arrangements. And the 
effective date of such BCEs would be the date the entitlements arise (not the point the 
scheme administrator first wrote to the scheme member telling him about his options under 
the scheme. It believed taking into account the guidelines and legislation, it had acted 
correctly in processing the benefits when the entitlement actually arose, not when the 
member first made the request.
The case was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision on 9 May 2023 
explaining why I was intending to uphold Mr Js complaint. I asked for responses by 23 May 
2023. Mr J replied accepting my decision. IISL replied providing further arguments and 
evidence as to why it disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary:
It didnt think the timescales in which it dealt with Mr Js request to take benefits were 
unreasonable. 
The documentation provided to Mr J and its website explained how long it would take 
for Mr J to receive his benefits once requested. The illustration he had been provided 
with also explained that the figures quoted werent guaranteed. 
The online benefits journey didnt guarantee that the benefits were paid out / 
calculated on the day the member made the benefit request. It referred to a situation 
where a member hadnt provided documentation in relation to LTA protection, and 
the impact on the calculation of benefits if there were delays in the information being 
provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Ive set out 
my reasoning again below.
IISL has in essence, argued that the BCE took place during the processing of Mr Js request 
to take retirement benefits, which could take 5-10 working days to complete. When the BCE took place the value of his SIPP changed. The summary it sent Mr J on 30 August 2022, 
indicates that this was on 24 August 2022. And IISL seems to be suggesting that the 
valuation of Mr Js pension couldnt take place until that point. 
In support of its arguments, IISL has referred to several provisions from the PTM that it 
thinks is relevant to this issue. In particular it has referred to PTM88200 and PTM088400. 
Ive summarised the main points that it has made above. 
Im not persuaded by the arguments IISL has made. I say this because I dont agree with its 
interpretation of the application of the PTMs it has referred to, and the time frame for 
calculating and processing Mr Js request to take benefits from his SIPP. I dont disagree 
that when Mr J requested to take benefits from his SIPP, the benefits that he wanted to take 
would be tested against his lifetime allowance. But I dont agree with its interpretation as to 
when Mr Js entitlement under the scheme arose. 
I agree that the relevant BCEs in this case were type 1 and type 6, as Mr J was taking a 
pension drawdown with a PCLS. And PTM088200 explains that where a PCLS is being paid 
such as in Mr Js case, BCE6 (which was in respect of a PCLS) would be treated for LTA 
purposes, as occurring immediately before the associated crystallisation of BCE1. 
PTM088610 explains that a BCE1 LTA test is triggered when a member designates those 
sums or assets held in a money purchase arrangement, should be made available to provide 
a drawdown pension. And I think that would have happened when IISL received Mr Js 
request to take a PCLS using flexi access drawdown. Also, the note explains that the value 
crystalising at BCE1 is the sums and market value of assets that are designated for 
drawdown. In my opinion and in common with good industry practice, that was when IISL 
received Mr Js application submitted and received on 19 August 2022. 
In its response to my provisional decision, IISL has referred to a scenario where further 
information was needed. I consider individual cases not hypothetical scenarios. In this case 
IISL issued Mr J with a benefit request summary document on 19 August 2022, which 
included an LTA declaration, but didnt require him to fulfil any further steps. It said if there 
was a problem with his request or if it needed additional information before it could process 
it, it would be in touch. But IISL didnt request any further information from Mr J, and it 
processed his benefits request based on the information he had submitted during the 
application process. 
Similarly, PTM088670 explains that that date the BCE 6 is triggered is the date the actual 
entitlement to the linked pension benefit arises. In addition, the terms and conditions of the 
SIPP at paragraph 10.5.2, say that in respect of the valuation of assets, when new funds are 
designated for a drawdown pension (as in Mr Js case), once IILS has the current value of 
the SIPP, it will test it against the LTA, on the date the member specifies before paying the 
benefits. 
And it seems to me that the entitlement to the PCLS would arise in this case, and the date 
Mr J specified in the context of 10.5.2, was when IISL received Mr Js confirmed request to 
take a PCLS using flexi access drawdown. So, considering the above, I dont think using the 
value of Mr Js funds on the date he submitted his application on 19 August 2022 is 
inconsistent with PTM88200 and PTM088400 that IISL has referred to, or its own terms and 
conditions. 
IISL has said it doesnt think the timescale it dealt with Mr Js request to take benefits was 
unreasonable. I accept that it may well have taken a few days for IISL to process Mr Js 
request. But I dont understand why it would have taken up to ten working days to complete 
it, that IISL suggested it could take. In this case Mr Js application was processed and paid 
by 26 August 2022, but it says based on a 24 August 2022 valuation. And for the avoidance of any doubt, I dont think the five working days that it took from receipt of Mr Js benefit 
payment request to the date the payment was made, was an unreasonable period of time for 
this payment to be processed and paid. The only issue Im addressing is whether the 24 
August 2022 valuation was the right one to use. 
Ive considered what IISL has said about the information Mr J was provided with indicating 
that the quoted figures werent guaranteed. But I dont think it was fair of IISL to use the 
value of Mr Js SIPP, on the day it actually processed his request to take benefits. I say this 
because the terms and conditions of the SIPP make no reference to those timescales, so Im 
not satisfied that IISL made Mr J aware of this timeframe. 
Also in my experience, and in line with what I consider to be good industry practice, the 
valuation of funds used in respect of any request to take retirement benefits, would normally 
be at the point the request was received and all the relevant information and documentation 
had been received to enable the request to be processed; not when the request was 
processed. This is to ensure that all policymakers are treated equally even though 
processing timescales can fluctuate.
And as Ive explained above, I dont think there was any outstanding information or 
documentation needed from Mr J, when IISL received his benefit request.  In addition, as 
Ive already explained, I dont think any LTA test would impact on requesting the 
encashment of Mr Js pension funds if required and using the fund value on the date the 
request to take benefits was received. 
Putting things right
1) Interactive Investor Services Limited should compensate Mr J by obtaining the value 
for Mr Js SIPP on 19 August 2022 which was when his application was received. 
2) It should compare this with the value of his SIPP at the date it calculated Mr Js 
PCLS. 
3) If the PCLS in (1) is greater than the value of the PCLS in (2), then it should pay Mr J 
the difference. 
4) Interest should be added to any shortfall calculated in (3) at the rate of 8% simple a 
year, from 26 August 2022 to the date of payment to Mr J, if he accepts my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Js complaint. If Mr J accepts my decision, 
Interactive Investor Services Limited should calculate and pay any compensation to Mr J 
using the methodology that Ive set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman