DRN-2846050
The complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles is holding him responsible for a credit 
card balance.
What happened
Mr A has a credit card account with NewDay. He explains that in December 2018 he went to 
prison. And that he had contacted NewDay to tell it this. He was unhappy at the balance on 
the account when he was released in May 2020. And he says that this included payments 
that he couldnt have made between April and July 2019.
NewDay said that Mr A had spoken to its fraud department after it had issued a response to 
his complaint. And that it had agreed to refund the payments on the account that had then 
been disputed. It said that Mr A hadnt told it he had been in prison until May 2020 and that 
he had been given a payment holiday at that time.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do anything further. She said that NewDay had 
shown that it had refunded the disputed payments with interest and any related fees. The 
remaining balance was unrelated to this.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that he didnt think wed looked at the complaint properly. He 
wanted the charges and interest on the account investigated since it was opened. He didnt 
know why repayments had continued while he was in prison, his letter to NewDay hadnt 
been acted on and his credit limit had been reduced.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 April 2021. I said that I understood that Mr A wanted 
me to look more widely than the fraudulent payments and taking into account the other 
points about interest and charges that NewDay dealt with in its initial response to his 
complaint. This didnt change the outcome, but I wanted to explain my reasoning for this, 
and I set this out below.
Hes provided a copy of a letter he says was sent to NewDay dated 19 June 2019  a time 
which coincides with when he says the account was being used fraudulently. The letter was 
on headed paper from the external Probation service who it seems must have helped him 
with it.
NewDay says it didnt receive the letter. And as Mr A had asked in it that correspondence be 
sent to him in prison and took no other action I thought he was reasonably aware of this. 
NewDay says that calls from someone who said it was Mr A in December 2019 and 
February 2020 couldnt be taken forward as that person couldnt pass security. And so, it 
says it didnt know about Mr As time in custody until his contact in May 2020.
Id noted from his credit card statements that payments by direct debit were being made to 
the account until January 2020 when this was cancelled. Interest was being applied in line 
with the terms of the agreement. Late payment fees and an unpaid direct debit fee were 
applied after the January 2020 payment was missed. And a default notice was issued in 
February 2020. The account was brought up to date with a payment of £323.92 in March 
2020. When Mr A did contact NewDay in May 2020 the account was again overdue, and a 
payment holiday of three months was agreed and the earlier late payment fees and unpaid 
direct debit fee (total £48) were refunded. NewDay decided in January 2020 and May 2020 
to reduce the limit on the account due to the arrears.
As NewDay has now accepted that there was unauthorised activity on the account between 
April and July 2019 it has refunded those payments of £490.59 plus accrued interest. So, I 
didnt need to make any finding about these.
my assessment
I didnt know what arrangements Mr A had made for his finances while in custody. But 
clearly he was able to arrange for a payment in March 2020  the specific amount hed been 
asked to on his February 2020 statement. As Ive said he reasonably knew that NewDay 
hadnt acted on his earlier letter. And however difficult given his position he hadnt discussed 
the situation with it.
So, I didnt think NewDay has made any mistake in continuing to apply interest to the 
account in line with the agreement during a period when generally repayments were being 
received. Having understood the background to the arrears it refunded fees and arranged a 
payment holiday. And it has refunded the disputed transactions and related interest. It was a 
matter for it to decide what a responsible limit on the account was given the arrears. I knew I 
was going to disappoint Mr A when having considered everything hed said I didnt think 
NewDay has acted unfairly and I didnt have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything 
more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay said it agreed with my findings and Mr A didnt make any further comments. That 
being the case I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman