DRN-2707329
Complaint
Mrs D says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mrs D took out an MPPI policy to cover her mortgage. The MPPI provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and she paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Mrs D has said that she cant recall having a conversation about MPPI. More recently, she 
has said she didnt have much money at the time and any available money was spent on 
decorating the house. So, she wouldnt have taken the PPI unless she was told she would 
have to have it.
Halifax isnt able to provide the paperwork from when the sale of the MPPI took place. 
However, this isnt unusual given the sale took place over 22 years ago and businesses are 
not required to keep records indefinitely. Because of this, whilst Halifax has said the MPPI 
was taken out at a branch, it doesnt know when the MPPI was sold to Mrs D. So, it has 
used the policy start date in July 1998, which its said is the same date as the start of the 
mortgage. This seems to be supported by what Mrs D has told us.
Because the point of sale information isnt available, I have to base my findings on what I 
think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances. In order to uphold this complaint, 
Id need to see persuasive evidence to show that Halifax didnt give Mrs D a choice when it 
came to the MPPI. Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Ds said. But, taking into account 
the time thats passed and the limited information provided by both parties, I cant assume 
that something went wrong, when theres no persuasive evidence to suggest that something 
did. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint on this basis.
Mrs D cant recall if she received any advice from the adviser when she took out MPPI. 
Halifax on the other hand, says it would have recommended the MPPI to Mrs D. This means 
that it needed to ensure that it was right for her and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mrs D was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt 
look like she would have been affected by anything the policy didnt cover - such as pre-
existing medical conditions.
Mrs D says she wouldnt have received any sick pay from her employer if she was too unwell 
to work. Shes also told us she didnt have any savings or other means she could have used 
to cover her mortgage repayments if she ever fell on hard times. So, I dont think Halifax was 
wrong to recommend the policy to her. I say this because looking at the policy Mrs D took 
out, I can see it would have paid out in the event she was too unwell to work for up to twelve 
months. The PPI would also have paid a benefit if Mrs D was ever made redundant for up to 
twelve months. So I think the MPPI would have been useful to Mrs D if she ever became too 
ill to work or lost her job. It also looks like it was affordable. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs D about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mrs D doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policy could have been useful to her. So I dont think better information would have stopped 
her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments about her financial circumstances at the time of 
the sale and that she used any available money towards decorating her property. So she 
would only have taken MPPI if she was told she had to have it. But as outlined above, I 
havent seen any persuasive evidence to show that Halifax didnt give Mrs D a choice to take 
out PPI. And having thought about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of the sale, I think it is 
more likely than not that she agreed to take the PPI having been given a choice. I say this 
because the MPPI protected her long-term commitment of mortgage repayments in the 
event that she ever became too unwell to work or lost her job. So this point doesnt change 
my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman