DRN-1712497
The complaint
Mr U complains Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) unfairly closed his current account. 
What happened
Mr U held a bank account with BoS for a number of years. In May 2019 BoS contacted Mr U 
and gave him 60 days notice that it would be closing his account. And due to the account 
having an outstanding balance, it said it told Mr U hed need to settle this before the end of 
this period. BoS said it also sent Mr U a letter outlining this message shortly after. Mr U says 
he never received this letter.
Around two months later Mr U went into a BoS branch to find out more about why his 
account was being closed but was told it was unable to help him. BoS said it had written to 
Mr U on a number of occasions to ask him to clear the balance, and because he hadn't, BoS 
recorded a default on Mr Us credit file in November 2019.
Following Mr Us complaint, BoS reviewed what happened. It said its branch staff made a 
mistake by telling Mr U it was unable to help him and shouldve provided more details about 
the closure. It apologised for this and offered Mr U £25 to recognise its mistake. But BoS 
said its decision to close the account was fair, and it had given Mr U enough opportunity to 
clear his outstanding balance.
Mr U said BoS offer wasn't fair in the circumstances, taking into account the impact it had on 
him and his credit score. He also said he wasn't able to make payments into the account to 
pay his debts.
Our investigator considered Mr Us complaint and felt that BoS had acted fairly, and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. She also felt that BoS offer of compensation 
was reasonable and said shed seen letters addressed to Mr U so wasn't persuaded he 
wasn't notified of what was happening. Mr U disagreed so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, and Ill explain why.
Mr U has told us that hed like BoS to be fined if its not providing the required service to its 
customers. But our service isn't the regulator, thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Our role is to consider individual complaints on their own merits, which is what Ive 
done in this case.
The terms and conditions of Mr Us account allow BoS to decide to close it in certain 
circumstances. And they say:If we decide to close your account, we will write to you at least two months before, 
explaining our position unless this would mean we would be breaking any law, regulation, 
code, obligation or duty (including to our staff).
Im satisfied BoS has made the decision to close the account in line with its terms and 
conditions. So Ive thought about whether BoS has done enough to communicate this 
decision to Mr U.
Mr U hasnt disputed that he was made aware of his account being closed in late May 2019. 
Having looked at BoS internal records I can see a letter was sent the same day. And Mr U 
was told again that he had 60 days notice before the account was closed, and that he would 
have to settle any outstanding balance. So Im satisfied BoS made Mr U aware of the 
closure and met its obligations.
Mr Us account was closed after the 60 day period. And despite a number of letters being 
sent to Mr U to warn him of the consequences of not settling the balance, his statements 
show nothing was paid into the account until after the default was applied in November 
2019. So Im satisfied that BoS applied the default fairly and in a reasonable timescale.
Ive also thought about the customer service issues Mr U has raised. From what Ive seen 
the impact of not being able to talk to the review team at the time he went into branch was 
minimal. I say this as BoS had already made the decision to close the account and told him 
of this. Although I can appreciate it may have helped him understand the situation better, in 
the circumstances Im satisfied the offer of £25 compensation BoS has made is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman