DRN-3697183
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the poor handling of a claim he made under his home and 
buildings insurance policy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. Hes also unhappy 
with the cash amount it paid to settle his claim.
All reference to the insurer Lloyds in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M made a claim for damage to an outside wall and fence to his insurer Lloyds in February 
2022. Lloyds appointed a clams handling team to deal with the claim on Lloyds behalf. 
Mr M wanted a cash settlement and in April 2022 Lloyds provided different cash settlement 
amounts to Mr M which prompted him to complain. Mr M was very unhappy with the 
handling of the claim and said unnecessary delays had been caused. He said hed had to 
spend considerable time in calls to the claims handlers acting on Lloyds behalf. 
In May 2022 Lloyds upheld Mr Ms complaint. It said it had quoted incorrect amounts to him 
and accepted this had been misleading and understandably caused frustration. For the 
inconvenience caused, Lloyds paid Mr M £250 compensation, which it later increased by 
£50 to £300.
Mr M accepted the cash settlement amount Lloyds said was correct. But he said he wanted 
to take his complaint to this service. Mr M didnt think the compensation Lloyds had paid 
reflected the distress and inconvenience caused. He wanted Lloyds to honour the original 
cash settlement it quoted of £34,110.30 (minus the excess of £200).
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She thought Lloyds had 
failed to explain its cash settlement and the reason for a 10% deduction from it before Mr M 
made the decision to accept it. She said Mr M would have made a different decision if hed 
been made aware of the deduction before accepting the cash settlement and so he had 
been prejudiced by Lloyds error. Mr M said he would have asked Lloyds approved 
contractors to carry out the works. 
The Investigator thought the compensation Lloyds had paid for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused was reasonable. She recommended Lloyds pay the difference 
between the cash settlement it paid and the £34,110.30 with interest.
Both parties replied and disagreed. Mr M said he wants an additional £500 compensation. 
Lloyds didnt agree that Mr M wasnt aware of the deduction before he accepted the cash 
settlement. It said the incorrect settlement figure was quoted to Mr M on 19 April 2022. But 
he was advised on the same day that the final settlement would need approval. Lloyds said 
that in further calls over the following days Mr M was made aware of the correct cash 
settlement (which was part of his complaint) and didnt accept it until 19 May 2022 after 
discussing Lloyds final response to his complaint. So Lloyds said at any time before Mr M 
accepted the cash settlement figure, he could have asked Lloyds to arrange repairs. Lloyds 
said Mr M didnt have to accept the cash settlement. 
In response, the Investigator asked Lloyds to provide evidence to show the deduction it 
applied to the cash settlement was fair and reasonable. 
Lloyds provide conflicting responses: it said it applied a discount as this was what the 
contractor would have done. However, the claims handling team said it applied a deduction 
because of assumptions it made about how much it would cost a customer to have the 
repairs done. 
In light of the conflicting information - and that the reasons given for applying a deduction by 
the claims handling team were unfounded and unjustified - the Investigator maintained her 
view that Lloyds should pay Mr M the cash settlement sum as set out under the scope of 
works provided by its approved contractor.
Lloyds responded to say that the reasons given by the claims handling team had nothing to 
do with why it made a deduction from the cash settlement. It said the reason for the 
deduction was because this was the discount the contractor would have given Lloyds if it 
had been given the opportunity to carry out the works. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy with Lloyds has a common term which sets out the options it has when settling 
claims. Lloyds says it will act as follows:
How your insurer will settle claims
Buildings, contents and personal possessions claims 
Your insurer may repair, reinstate or replace your damaged property. If your insurer 
cant replace or repair your property they may pay for the loss or damage in cash or 
in a cash alternative (including vouchers and/or store cards).
Where your insurer can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but 
then agree to pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not be 
more than the amount they would have paid their preferred supplier.
Lloyds gave Mr M a cash settlement figure on 19 April 2022 by phone of £34,110.30 (minus 
an excess of £200, so £33,910.30). Ive looked at the schedule of works (SOW) provided by 
the Surveyor who inspected the damage to Mr Ms property and this is the total net figure 
before VAT. 
Lloyds says that this sum wasnt correct. It said it shouldnt have been shared with Mr M by 
Lloyds in the phone call as this was commercially sensitive - as is its discounts that it may 
apply. 
While I appreciate that insurers can attract competitive rates with approved contractors, I 
think its reasonable to be able to evidence that the settlement an insurer pays a customer is 
fair. In this case, Lloyds hasnt provided any evidence to support the deduction it took from 
the SOW provided by the Surveyor for the reinstatement works. The reasons provided by the 
claims handling team - appointed by Lloyds - contradicted the reason Lloyds gave us as to  
why it made the deduction. But this was information Lloyds gave us as evidence to support 
its decision. 
So I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr M fairly. I dont think Lloyds has provided any reliable 
evidence to show that the deduction it made from the SOW provided by the Surveyor was 
reasonable. And so it follows that I think it should pay the difference to Mr M with interest - 
as I think it should have paid him a cash settlement of £33,910.30 after deducting the 
excess. I think Mr M received some poor service and some delay from the claims handling team. 
Unfortunately having to make a claim will involve a degree of our own time and some 
inconvenience. I think thats inevitable. But for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Lloyds, which was over and above what Id consider reasonable, I think the compensation 
amount of £300 is fair and in line with awards we would give in similar circumstances. So Im 
not asking Lloyds to increase this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to do the following:
Pay the difference between the cash amount it paid Mr M and £33,910.30 as 
per the net total for the reinstatement works to settle Mr Ms claim.
Pay interest on the difference from the date of the claim to the date it pays Mr 
M at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman