DRN-3180122
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Nationwide Building Society has responded to fraud alerts on his
account. Amongst other points, he says that its poor communications and failure to respond
to his requests left him without access to his money.
What happened
Mr G lives overseas. His Nationwide account is his main UK account, and he told us he
relies on this to access a regular UK-based income.
Mr G told us that a card payment was stopped as possibly fraudulent, and his card was
blocked. But he said Nationwide didnt ring to tell him his card was cancelled, it wrote to him
instead, and he only found out when he tried to use the card. When he did find out, he asked
Nationwide to cancel his card. But although the payment was stopped in July, his card
wasnt cancelled then, even though he had requested that it should be, as a precaution.
Mr G was later told that blocks on his card had been removed, and it hadnt been cancelled.
Around November, Mr G received a letter asking if certain transactions on this card were his.
They werent. Those transactions were stopped, and this was when his card was finally
cancelled. Mr G said that Nationwides communications at this time were poor. And hed
asked Nationwide to get in touch with him before it went ahead with cancelling his card,
because he needed to make transactions in the next few days. But Nationwide just went
ahead and cancelled the card.
Mr G said he also had problems making payments through an e-money site with his old
card. The e-money site said this problem wasnt at its end. Nationwide said it wasnt causing
the problem either, but the problems were resolved when Mr G finally got his new card. So
Mr G was confident that this problem had been caused by Nationwide.
Mr G then said that after a new card was issued, further payments were made to the same
retailer which originally caused the first security alert. He didnt think these payments should
have been made, because his old card had been cancelled. Mr G said Nationwide must 
have passed his new card details through to the retailer, and he was very concerned about 
the security of his account because of this.
Nationwide said that it hadnt generated the first block on Mr Gs card, in July. The fraud
concern then was raised by the card scheme operator, whose symbol appears on Mr Gs
card. Nationwide said that although it had at first told Mr G it tried to ring him, it wouldnt
have been able to call an overseas number. So it wrote to him instead.
Nationwide said it could see Mr G had asked for his card to be stopped and replaced then, 
but it hadnt replaced his card. It apologised for this.
Nationwide said it was confident that after this, there were no further restrictions on Mr Gs 
card. So it said if he had problems paying an e-money provider, that wasnt because of the 
previous issues on his card. It suggested he checked his address with the e-money provider.
Nationwide said it then wrote to Mr G again, in November, about a number of transactions 
on his card. When he confirmed those transactions werent made by him, it asked him to 
confirm the last four digits of the card so the card could be replaced. But Nationwide said it 
now appreciated that it didnt need to ask for this, because Mr G had already given 
Nationwide this information.
Nationwide said it had paid Mr G £175 to apologise for the poor service it had provided in 
responding to his secure online messages. It later paid a further £50, again for poor service.
Nationwide said it hadnt caused the problem Mr G later experienced, with a transaction
being processed for the retailer which caused the first security alert. It said the card scheme 
operator would have passed on the details of Mr Gs new card to the retailer. If Mr G could 
show he had cancelled the continuous payment authority, then Nationwide could challenge 
this payment for Mr G.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt unreasonable
for Nationwide to carry out security checks, and Nationwide hadnt then left the block on Mr
Gs card. His card wasnt cancelled until 14 December. So our investigator suggested Mr G
might like to raise his concerns about paying an e-money provider with the provider itself.
Our investigator said if Mr G had authorised a recurring payment with a retailer, then that
retailer would be able to get Mr Gs new card details from the card scheme operator. He said
continuous authority payments like this dont stop when a card is cancelled. And he
explained that Mr G can cancel these payments by directly contacting the retailer, or by
asking Nationwide to stop them.
Our investigator said that although Nationwide should have cancelled Mr Gs card when he
requested it, and it should have responded to his messages, Nationwide has apologised for
this and taken his feedback on board. It had also offered a total of £225 in compensation. 
Our investigator thought that this provided a fair outcome, and it was in line with what he
would have recommended if no offer had been made.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that after the first alert his card wasnt blocked, it was restricted.
He could still use it to access his accounts. And he said Nationwide didnt communicate
either by phone, the online secure messaging service or by email. He said that had nothing
to do with him living abroad.
Mr G agreed that it wasnt unreasonable for security checks to be done. But he said his card
was working fine with the e-money provider until Nationwide restricted it, when it stopped.
He also said that the new card worked fine when it was finally replaced. Thats why he
thought that the problem was something Nationwide had done.
Mr G said that his card was cancelled completely on 14 December, and he said this
happened against his wishes. He didnt want Nationwide to replace his card then, because
he wouldnt get a new card until after Christmas and New Year. Mr G said Nationwide didnt
tell him that it was replacing his card.
Mr G said that he hadnt authorised a recurrent payment with the retailer who had been
given his new card details.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr G hasnt challenged Nationwides decision to restrict his card in July. I understand 
that hes concerned he was told Nationwide had rung him, then later told it in fact 
couldnt do so, and would just write to him. I can understand his concern at the length 
of time it would take a letter to reach him (assuming it eventually did so, I note that 
Mr G lives overseas, and has had problems with post in the past). Mr G has pointed 
out that Nationwide didnt have to write. It has said it couldnt ring, but Mr G says that 
it should make sure it can ring him, and points out that it could have emailed or sent 
a secure message.
I agree with Mr G that it is poor service for Nationwide not to use any other means 
than a letter posted to an overseas address, to communicate with him when there is 
an issue of fraud on his card.
When Mr G replied to Nationwide to say that he did recognise this transaction, he 
also asked for his card to be cancelled as a precautionary measure. It wasnt, and 
when Mr G followed this up later, he doesnt seem to have had any response.
I think that if Mr G asks for his card to be cancelled, Nationwide should respond to 
that request. So again, I think this was also poor service.
Mr G said that after Nationwide first restricted his card, he wasnt able to use the card 
with a popular e-money provider. He said the timing of this problem meant he was 
confident that this was because of something Nationwide had done.
Nationwide has shown us that Mr Gs account was restricted on 1 July 2020, and it 
was then unblocked on 16 July. I can see that Mr G did attempt transactions with the 
e-money provider both during and after this time. And I can also see they werent 
successful, because they dont show on his statements. So there clearly was a 
problem.
But I cant say Nationwide caused this problem. I have seen that the restriction it put 
in place was lifted on 16 July. So I dont know why these transactions failed. There 
may have been a different problem at the e-money provider, or it may simply have 
refused transactions on Mr Gs card because payments from the same card had 
repeatedly failed, while the block was in place. So I dont think I can fairly hold 
Nationwide responsible for this additional problem.
Nationwide then wrote to Mr G about some transactions on his account that it wasnt 
sure were made by him. We dont know how the fraudster obtained Mr Gs details, so 
we cant know whether this attempted fraud would have happened anyway, even if 
Mr Gs card had been replaced in July as he requested.
Again, I think its unfortunate that Nationwide chose to inform Mr G of possible fraud 
on his account only by letter, given how long it was likely to take any letter to reach 
Mr G, and the higher risk that a letter posted overseas wont arrive.
There appears to have been some confusion once Mr G said he didnt recognise 
those transactions. I know that Mr G said he didnt want his card to be cancelled 
straight away, because he had some key transactions to make in the next few days. 
But I wouldnt necessarily expect Nationwide to wait for Mr G to have made key 
transactions before it replaced his card. Rather, I think that once Nationwide had confirmation that Mr Gs card had been involved in fraudulent transactions, it would 
be more usual for it to act promptly to replace this card.
But Nationwide doesnt appear to have done that, because no replacement was 
ordered until 14 December, almost a month later. If Nationwide had replaced Mr Gs 
card promptly once he said he didnt recognise these transactions, in mid-November, 
Mr G would have been much less likely to spend the Christmas and New Year period 
without access to his account.
Fortunately, Mr G was able to put other arrangements in place to have access to 
money during this time. Whilst I think some disruption was inevitable for Mr G, once 
his card had been used fraudulently, I think that Nationwides failure to act promptly 
the second time it was asked, has prolonged this problem for Mr G.
Mr G also complained that Nationwide must have given his new card details to the 
retailer involved in the first security alert. He said he had never given that retailer a 
continuous payment authority, so he didnt see how the retailer could otherwise have 
his details.
I dont think its likely that Nationwide has contacted this retailer and passed on Mr 
Gs new card details. I do think its more likely that these card details have been 
supplied to the retailer by the card scheme operator, whose symbol appears on Mr 
Gs card. I think thats likely, because its usual for a card scheme operator to do that, 
when a new card is issued, and a continuous payment authority is in place.
I dont know whether Mr G has given a continuous payment authority to that retailer 
or not. But I dont think its most likely that this payment went through because 
Nationwide did something wrong.
What Mr G wanted, as an outcome to this complaint, was for us to make sure that 
Nationwide didnt do this again. He wanted us to instruct Nationwide to change its 
procedures, so that it got in touch with him more promptly when there were problems, 
and it then responded when he contacted it.
As our investigator explained, we arent a regulator, and we cant require Nationwide 
to change its processes. So I cant require Nationwide to behave differently in future.
What I can do, is look at the impact this had on Mr G. And, given that I think 
Nationwide has provided poor service to Mr G, I need to assess whether a payment 
of £225 is sufficient to make up for that.
I dont think that Nationwides offers to date are quite enough to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. I think that Nationwide should ensure that Mr 
G receives a total of £350 in compensation for the points Ive upheld above. I think 
that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. Nationwide can 
count any payments it has already made to Mr G for this complaint, towards that 
award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it wanted to accept my decision. It said that it would increase the total 
compensation paid to Mr G to £350. But it said that when it had told Mr G, in a letter dated 
18 February 2021, that it paid him £50 in compensation, that was a mistake. It had actually 
paid him £150 then.
Nationwide said that as it had already paid Mr G compensation of £175 (on 15 December 
2020) and then £150 (on 18 February 2021) it had already paid £325 in compensation, and 
would now pay a further £25 to make the total requested of £350.
I recognise that Mr G is likely to be disappointed that the compensation payment hes now 
going to receive is smaller than he will have anticipated, but this is in line with my provisional 
decision, and in particular the key conclusion that Nationwide should ensure that Mr G 
receives a total of £350 in compensation for this complaint.
Mr G emailed our service three times. The first email dealt with Nationwides response to the 
problem he told it about, making payments through an e-money provider. Mr G reminded us 
that hed shared the relevant emails with us, and he said it was his view that Nationwide did 
not investigate this problem in full, and in particular that it ignored any input that he provided 
in an effort to resolve this. He said that he stopped using the e-money provider as a result. 
I dont think Nationwide did ignore what Mr G said. Ive seen a reply which says Nationwide 
has checked for outstanding blocks on Mr Gs account, and doesnt think the problem is as a 
result of anything it has done. And I understand that Nationwide read his last email on this as 
notifying it that he intended to raise this with our service, not a request for further help. Ive 
read that email too, and I think that was a reasonable conclusion for Nationwide to have 
reached. So I dont think that Nationwide ignored Mr Gs further correspondence.
Mr G said that before moving abroad, Nationwides staff convinced him that this account was 
the best available for using abroad. But he said that since then, Nationwide have stripped all 
the benefits that were sold to him before moving. So he has a card with no benefits. And he 
said that now he wasnt even getting reasonable customer support.
I cant look here at the sale of Mr Gs account, or the benefits which have been removed, 
because that isnt what he originally complained to Nationwide about. I understand his 
strength of feeling about the service he was provided with in this case, and Ive noted a 
number of points where I have agreed with him, that service provided was poor. Im sorry 
that our service is only able to look at this complaint, so Im not able to require a general 
improvement to the service that Mr G receives in future. 
Mr G also said that he didnt have any recurring subscriptions, and he was extremely angry 
that his full card details could be passed to a company previously deemed as suspicious. He 
said that means he has no control over who has details of his new card.
I set out in my provisional decision that its not likely that what happened here was done by 
Nationwide. I do understand the point that Mr G makes here, but its not one Im able to 
consider as part of this complaint.
Mr G then emailed a second time, to send us an extract from a reply he received from 
Nationwide. That said -
"Im aware youve approached the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) with regards 
to the information Ive provided in my previous responses. I believe Ive fully 
addressed your concerns and as there is nothing further Im able to add, as result, 
any further correspondence you may wish to send to us regarding this matter will be stored on file without reply. Having said that, should we be contacted by the FOS 
about this issue, well cooperate fully with any investigation they may make on your 
behalf."
Mr G was very unhappy that Nationwide was leaving it to our service to deal with his 
problem.
I can see that Nationwide sent this after Mr G had complained to us. When our service is 
investigating an issue, it can be quite difficult for us to resolve a problem if the bank is also 
communicating directly with the complainant about the same thing at the same time. For that 
reason, many banks will cease to communicate directly with a complainant about a 
complaint, once it has been referred to us. I think thats what Nationwide was doing here, 
and I dont think that Nationwides response represents poor service.
Mr Gs final email said he wanted to change the wording in my report regarding Nationwides 
attempt to contact him by telephone. He wanted to highlight that Nationwide didnt tell the 
truth when it initially said it had tried to contact him by phone, as it later came to light that 
Nationwide couldnt call him, the relevant team doesnt have international dialling access. He 
wanted to stress that this had nothing to do with him being unavailable to answer a call.
My provisional decision says that Nationwide said that although it had at first told Mr G it 
tried to ring him, it wouldnt have been able to call an overseas number. So I was aware of 
this mistake by Nationwide when I made my provisional decision. And one of the key 
reasons that this complaint was upheld was that I thought it was poor service for Nationwide 
not to use any other means than a letter posted to an overseas address, to communicate 
with Mr G about possible fraud on his card. So I have accepted that there was no call. I dont 
think this decision requires amendment on that point.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr G a total of £350 in 
compensation. Nationwide can count any payments it has already made to Mr G for this 
complaint, towards that award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman