DRN-1142001
 
The complaint
Mr E says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr E took out a PPI policy in 2000 to protect his credit card payments in the event of 
disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr E didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr E that he had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
his agreement before adding it. Ive seen a copy of Mr Es signed postal credit card 
application form. While the copy quality isnt the best, it appears that theres a tick to indicate 
he wanted PPI. 
Overall, I think Barclays made it clear to Mr E that he had a choice about taking out PPI and 
that he chose to take it. 
Ive gone on to look for any other reasons why I might uphold Mr Es complaint but I dont 
think there are. Barclays says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E. Mr E cant recall either 
way, although I think its unlikely to have recommended the PPI given the sale took place by 
post and without, as far as I can tell, any direct contact with a Barclays adviser. 
That said, Barclays still ought to have provided Mr E with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that he could decide for himself if it was suitable. I cant say for 
sure whether Barclays did that but, from what I know of Mr Es circumstances, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking it. I say that because:
It seems Mr E would have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe hed have 
decided against the PPI because of its exclusions and restrictions. 
Mr E says he was entitled to good sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer 
and that he could have relied on a private healthcare policy to keep up with his 
payments if he wasnt working. But the PPI would have paid out on top of his sick pay 
and redundancy pay, leaving him free to use those other means to cover his other 
living costs if he was off work. The PPI benefits would have paid out for a considerable time, at up to 12 months per claim. Weve asked for more information 
about Mr Es other insurance policy but without reply, so I havent taken it into 
account.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr E couldnt afford the PPI. I think Mr E would have 
considered it provided him with useful extra security for the cost. And it was flexible 
enough that Mr E could have cancelled it at any time if he decided it was no longer 
suitable for him.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Es lost out because of how Barclays sold 
him the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman