DRN-1455775
 
The complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out PPI in 1998 at the same time as she applied for a mortgage. The sale took 
place in one of the banks branches. The PPI gave her accident, sickness and  
unemployment cover. She paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she was pressured to take out PPI though the paperwork won't show that. She 
was told it was part of the package. I cant know what was said in the meeting but I've looked 
at the available paperwork. Mrs C signed a separate application form for the PPI, and I can't 
see anything on the form that I think could reasonably have led her to believe it was 
mandatory. I have considered Mrs Cs comments about what she was told carefully, but I 
also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what she 
recalls. Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude Bank of Scotland didnt 
make it clear Mrs C had a choice about PPI  and she didnt opt to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs C. And I think it seems to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances. Mrs C told us she was entitled to 
six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick but the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness 
claim. And it also offered redundancy cover for up to 12 months. This would have allowed 
her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at an 
already difficult time. Mrs C said she had savings worth around three months' salary. The 
PPI would have allowed her to use these to cover other living expenses whilst she wasnt 
working, or to keep them intact for her future needs. Mrs C also said she had some life 
insurance but that offers different protection and wouldn't help with monthly mortgage 
payments in the same way as PPI.Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful if Mrs C was sick or lost her job. It gave her 
protection beyond her other means. And this could have been important given 
the consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against her home.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mrs C all the information she needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on the application form, and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. But I dont know that it pointed out the main 
things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the policy wouldve changed her 
mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mrs C has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman