DRN-2326994
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to support him when he wasnt able to pay 
his credit card, during a particularly difficult time.
What happened
Mr S told us that he experienced very distressing bereavements. He told us that he took 
some unpaid time off work because of this. Mr S said he told Barclaycard about his 
difficulties in late 2019, but it wasnt sympathetic. He wanted us to look at what it had done.
Barclaycard said it had spoken to Mr S about his circumstances in early November 2019, 
after it had sent him a couple of text messages reminding him that he needed to pay his 
credit card. Hed promised then to make a payment on 9 November, but he hadnt been able 
to do that. 
Barclaycard tried to ring Mr S again a couple of times, then spoke to him in early December. 
Mr S told Barclaycard that he was off work at that time, to support his family. Barclaycard 
applied a hold on interest and charges for 30 days, and wrote to him to confirm that. 
Mr S next spoke to Barclaycard on 15 January 2020. At that stage, Barclaycards notes 
indicate that Mr S thought he would be able to bring his account back up to date by paying 
£54.12 within a few days of this call, then the same amount monthly over the next three 
months. Barclaycard said that because it thought Mr S was getting his account back on 
track, it didnt extend the hold on charges. So interest was charged on his January and 
February 2020 statements. But Mr S only made the first of the four payments hed agreed to.
Mr S spoke to Barclaycard again in early March 2020. It had reduced Mr Ss credit limit in 
September 2019, and he was unhappy about this. His account was in arrears, but he said 
then that he could maintain future payments. 
Mr S rang Barclaycard in mid-March, to complain that it had closed his card account, so he 
could no longer spend on the card. He said he was too upset to complete income and 
expenditure information on that call, so Barclaycard sent this to him in the post, and said it 
would waive interest again. But it wouldnt reopen his account. 
Barclaycard said that we could see on Mr Ss September statement that it had refunded 
interest it had charged him. Barclaycard also said that in July it had agreed a 12-month 
repayment plan which would mean Mr S pays £15 monthly for 12 months at 0% interest.
Barclaycard thought it had provided adequate support to Mr S since he told it about his 
circumstances. His card account was closed on 27 February 2020, but that only happened 
after hed missed the payments for four of his statements. Barclaycard said its terms and 
conditions say it can stop its customers from using the card, and borrowing more, if it 
reasonably considers that is necessary because the risk of someone not paying the total 
outstanding balance has significantly increased.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that she was sorry to 
hear about Mr Ss very difficult personal circumstances. In this sort of situation we would 
expect a business to be positive and sympathetic. Barclaycard could do that by putting a 
hold on fees and charges for a set period or agreeing affordable payments with Mr S to clear 
any arrears. 
Our investigator said Barclaycard had done what we would expect. It had repeatedly offered 
Mr S breathing space  30 days where it wouldnt charge fees or interest. And it had set up 
arrangements to clear the arrears, although our investigator said she could understand why 
Mr S didnt keep to those.
Our investigator said it wasnt unreasonable for Barclaycard to say that Mr S couldnt use 
this card any more, because of the arrears that had built up. She said Barclaycard wouldve 
been aware that no payments had been made, and the action it took prevented Mr Ss debt 
from getting bigger. Our investigator said she appreciated that it was upsetting for Mr S that 
Barclaycard had permanently closed his card, but he was some months behind on his 
payments. She could see that Mr S had agreed a payment plan on his account after this, 
and had been sticking to it. 
Mr S didnt agree, he said he had really been messed around by Barclaycard. He wanted an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Id like to start by saying that Im very sorry to hear about the distressing personal 
circumstances that Mr S and his family have experienced over the last couple of years. I do 
understand that this has made things difficult for him, and that his finances wont have been 
his primary focus at this time. 
I can see from Mr Ss statements that he missed a payment in July 2019. His balance was 
tending to increase around that time. His September statement shows that Barclaycard had 
decided to reduce Mr Ss overall credit limit to £950. I dont think this decision was 
connected to the difficult personal circumstances Mr S later told Barclaycard about. 
Barclaycard is allowed, under the terms of this card, to reduce the credit limit, based on its 
assessment of risk. So I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong when it did this.
Barclaycard spoke to Mr S in November 2019, and then a number of times after that, about 
payments towards his card. Mr S told Barclaycard about his family circumstances, and how 
that was affecting his finances. I can see that Barclaycard repeatedly agreed not to charge 
Mr S interest, and it tried to set up repayment plans with him. Thats what I would expect 
Barclaycard to do. Unfortunately Mr S wasnt able to stick to these. 
Barclaycard didnt suspend all of the interest that Mr S was paying. It charged him interest in 
November, January, February and April. It may have done that because it thought Mr S was 
going to get his payments back on track. But, with hindsight, its clear that Mr S was still 
having difficulties at this point, and Im pleased to see that Barclaycard has now refunded all 
the interest it charged then. Barclaycard suspended use of Mr Ss card, and then closed the card for future use in March 
2020. Barclaycards notes from the time show that Mr S was very upset by this. But I agree 
with our investigator, that Barclaycard didnt do anything wrong when it did this. It has the 
right to close a card to future use under the terms of this account. And I think, given the 
arrears that had built up on Mr Ss account, and that hed not been able to manage a 
payment plan at this point, that it was a reasonable step for Barclaycard to take. As our 
investigator said, doing this stops Mr S from getting further into debt. I realise that this upset 
Mr S, but I dont think Barclaycard was wrong to do this. 
I do think that Barclaycard has offered Mr S the financial support with his card debt that I 
would expect to see. I know that Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman