DRN-4404096
The complaint
Mrs R complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair value for her car 
following the theft of her vehicle. 
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mrs R insured her car with Admiral under a motor insurance policy. 
In March 2023, Mrs Rs car was unfortunately stolen. After it was recovered, Admiral decided 
to write it off and offered Mrs R £10,970 to settle the claim, less any deductibles such as Mrs 
Rs excess and outstanding premium. 
Mrs R wasnt happy, so she complained about the valuation. Admiral didnt change its 
decision and said the top book valuation across the two guides it had checked matched its 
offer. 
Mrs R brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. She said she cant 
replace her vehicle like for like with the amount Admiral has offered. And the adverts she 
found online for similar vehicles were for considerably more (the majority being above 
£15,000). She said the failure of Admiral to treat her fairly has significantly impacted her and 
her family  both from the perspective of their mental wellbeing and financially.
An Investigator at this service looked into matters and, ultimately, issued a view that Admiral 
hadnt come to a fair market value. This is because they ran their own valuations using the 
motor trade guides which gave four valuations  two at the higher end and two at the lower 
end. As there was a considerable difference between the spread of the two sets of 
valuations, the Investigator found the higher values were more likely to be indicative of a fair 
market value because the adverts sent to her by Mrs R supported this. 
Admiral didnt agree with the Investigators method of calculating a fair value. However, it did 
agree to the principle of paying an average of the four guides, subject to evidence of the 
same.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must explain Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
My role in this matter is to decide whether Admiral has applied the policy terms and 
conditions when reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and 
reasonable way. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think it has. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. This is what Mrs Rs policy provides. It 
defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
here, it originally determined to be £10,970. Admiral referred to two trade guides to obtain a 
value for the car. The guides gave different figures, which isnt unusual. It then made an offer 
to Mrs R which was the average of those guides.
We use the same trade guides  in addition to two others - to help decide if a settlement 
offer is fair when valuing second-hand vehicles. In the absence of other evidence, we may 
find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market value as their valuations are based on 
nationwide research of likely sales figures. 
I can see the motor trade guides used by the Investigator were for cars of the same make, 
model, age and mileage as Mrs Rs at the date of loss. The valuations obtained by the 
Investigator were £10,295, £11,540, £13,058 and £13,379. As a result, they didnt agree 
Admirals valuation was fair. They ultimately came to a valuation using an average of the top 
two valuations. 
I note Mrs R sent our service a number of valuations but many of these Ive discounted 
because they werent substantially similar cars, for example, they had automatic gearboxes, 
a different mileage or package. However, Ive also seen adverts for cars of the same age, 
model, features and similar mileage to Mrs Rs both online as well as from one of the motor 
trade guides where the adverts show a range from £10,795 to £14,595 with the majority of 
these being in the £13,000-£14,000 bracket. Whilst I appreciate these are advertised prices 
and there maybe reductions agreed, or incentives offered if a customer was ready to buy 
one, Ive balanced this with the fact the valuations now visible to me online are seven 
months after the date of loss. Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied a valuation of 
the average of the top two valuations is more likely to be a fair reflection of market value at 
the time directly before the loss.
In light of this, I dont consider Admiral has demonstrated it has acted fairly in reaching the 
value of £10,970. And Im more persuaded the valuation which is an average of the two 
highest guides - £13,218.50 - is a fairer reflection of market value. 
In summary, Im not satisfied Admirals offer for the market value of Mrs Rs car was fair 
according to the terms and conditions of the policy. It now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Admiral must pay Mrs R the difference between what it valued her car at (£10,970) and the 
market value of the average of the highest two valuations provided by the guides (which I 
calculate to be £13,218.50). It also needs to add 8% simple interest payable one month from the date the claim was 
made up to the date of actual payment (making an appropriate reduction for any interim 
payments, on the date they were made).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to do the things set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman