DRN-2029355
The complaint
Mr F complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined his claim against his single trip, 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 11 June 2019, Mr F booked a trip with his family with an intended departure date of      
14 July 2019. On 12 July 2019, he bought a single trip, travel insurance policy. 
Unfortunately, his daughter was ill with fever and swollen glands so, on the day of his 
intended departure, he cancelled the trip. In September 2019, Mr F made a claim on his 
policy.  
ERGO declined Mr Fs claim. It said that when Mr F bought the policy, he was aware of his 
daughters illness which led to the cancellation of the trip. ERGO relied on one of the 
exclusions in the policy, which said that it didnt cover any claim arising from circumstances 
that could reasonably have been anticipated at the time the trip was booked or the policy 
was purchased, whichever is the later. 
Mr F didnt agree with ERGOs response. He says that ERGO had erroneously referred to a 
medical appointment on 10 July 2019, which wasnt relevant. Mr F wants ERGO to pay his 
claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that ERGO had 
treated Mr F unfairly. Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that his daughter took a 
course of antibiotics following her appointment with the doctor on 26 June 2019 and was 
fine, so when he took out the insurance, she was well. Mr F said that his daughter became 
unwell on the intended departure date. He asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:
Section 1:Cancellation
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in total per 
Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table of Benefits, following necessary 
and unavoidable cancellation of a trip as a result of:
1. [] Illness, as certified by a Medical Practitioner, of You, Your Relative []
This Policy does not provide cover [for]:
[]
14. Foreseeable circumstances
Any circumstances, such as Strike or Industrial Action, that were known or could 
reasonably have been anticipated at the time an Insured Journey was booked or the Policy 
was purchased, whichever is the later.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that ERGO has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont doubt that this was a frustrating and disappointing time for Mr F and his family. But 
having considered everything thats been provided, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint because 
I dont think that ERGO has treated him unfairly. I say that because:
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, it must show that it 
applies in the particular circumstances. I think ERGO has done that here. 
The medical certificate Mr F provided in support of his claim says that it was 
medically necessary to cancel the trip because of Mr Fs daughters fever and 
swollen glands. It also says that Mr Fs daughter first consulted the doctor about this 
on 26 June 2019. Thats a short time before Mr F bought the policy.
Mr F says that his daughter took a course of antibiotics following her appointment 
with the doctor on 26 June 2019 and was fine so, when he took out the insurance, 
she was well. Mr F said that his daughter became unwell on the day they should 
have travelled. The medical certificate provided by Mr F doesnt support what he 
says about that. Theres no mention that there were two unrelated instances of the 
same illness. 
In any event, when Mr F bought the policy on 12 July 2019, he knew that his 
daughter had recently been ill with fever and swollen glands. It was the same illness 
that, just over two weeks later, led to the cancellation of Mr Fs family trip. I dont 
think its unreasonable for ERGO to conclude that, in the circumstances, when Mr F 
bought the policy, he could reasonably foresee that his daughters health would 
mean that theyd have to cancel their trip. I dont think that the reference to a medical appointment on 10 July 2019 alters the 
outcome here. ERGO didnt rely on that in declining Mr Fs claim  it noted that 
appointment and said that it didnt know what it was for. 
Insurance is intended to provide cover for unforeseen events. Given the proximity of 
Mr Fs daughters illness which led to the cancellation of the trip and Mr F buying the 
policy, I dont think that ERGO treated Mr F unfairly in concluding that the 
circumstances which led to the claim were foreseeable when Mr F bought the policy.
The outcome of Mr Fs claim may well have been different if hed bought the policy at 
the same time he booked the trip. Ive seen from Mr Fs claim form that he says that 
he didnt buy the policy at the same time as booking the trip as he was too busy. 
Thats unfortunate but ERGO must decide about the claim in the circumstances that 
arose. I dont think that ERGO acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion in the policy 
Ive set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman