DRN-1979949
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly declined his application for a loan.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr P applied for a loan with Lloyds which was declined. He complained, 
saying hed banked with Lloyds for many years, and was approved for loans in the past 
despite his financial circumstances remaining the same.
Mr P also said the letter he received declining his application was automated and 
impersonal. He wants Lloyds to pay £500 compensation for the distress hes been caused. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr P to say his application was reviewed and he hadnt passed its 
affordability checks so it couldnt approve him for the loan. It said it couldnt tell Mr P 
specifically why he didnt pass, as its lending criteria is commercially sensitive. But it said 
Mr P was welcome to apply again, and if he did it would arrange for its underwriting team to 
manually review his application. 
Lloyds explained this type of manual review would involve a credit search being untaken, 
whereas its previous review through its system hadnt. Mr P declined this offer and brought 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Lloyds has a duty to lend responsibility. 
And as Mr P hadnt passed the affordability checks, it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline 
the application. He thought the offer to manually assess a further application was fair. And 
he didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more than that.
Mr P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
There are rules and regulations set by the regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
to ensure that a financial business provides credit responsibly. Businesses must complete 
proportionate credit checks to ensure any lending is affordable. In addition to these rules, 
banks will have their own internal lending criteria which can vary from bank to bank. 
The criteria they use are based on their own commercial decisions and we cant tell them 
what criteria to use. But we do expect businesses to apply their criteria fairly.
Lloyds says the loan was automatically declined as Mr P didnt meet its affordability criteria. I 
wouldnt expect Lloyds to approve a loan that it didnt believe was affordable for him. And 
from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds considered Mr Ps application in the same way it 
reviews all applications it receives. So I dont think Mr P has been treated any differently and 
it fairly declined the application in line with its own lending criteria. Mr P has complained 
about the content of the decline letter he received. Mr P considers this to be impersonal as it 
didnt give any specific reasons for the rejection of his application. 
While Mr P may have wanted a personalised response, I dont think the automated decline 
letter it sent was rude, impolite or any type of poor customer service on Lloyds part. And I 
wouldnt expect it to produce a tailored response.
Mr P has highlighted his history with Lloyds, including being approved in the past when he 
says hes been in the same financial situation. But this history doesnt change Lloyds 
obligations to lend responsibly. So this doesnt change my mind.
Ultimately the decision of whether to lend is one that Lloyds makes, and our service cant 
overrule that. And having looked at everything provided, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr P 
was treated unfairly during the application process. So I wont be directing Lloyds to do 
anything more.
If Mr P wants to accept Lloyds invitation to re-submit his loan, he should contact it directly. 
As it has said, Lloyds will need to complete a credit search. And there is no guarantee that 
this will be successful.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman