DRN-3997713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) have failed to refund 
over £50,000 they lost to an investment scam in April 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs S authorised the disputed payments they made to their 
cryptocurrency wallet from their Halifax account (where the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer Bit-Premium from the crypto wallet). The payments were 
requested using their legitimate security credentials provided by Halifax, and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Mr and 
Mrs S from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Having reviewed the initial payments made by Mr and Mrs S, I dont think these were 
enough in themselves to have warranted an intervention by Halifax, as they were not so 
unusual as to amount to a significant deviation in the way the account was normally run. 
However, by the time they came to make the payment of £9,700 on 21 April 2022, this 
marked a significant escalation in the value of payments being made and was an 
unusually large amount to have been spent from the account. So, I think Halifax ought to 
have intervened when Mr and Mrs S attempted to make this payment. 
However, even if Halifax had intervened at this point and asked further questions about 
the nature of the payments Mr and Mrs S were making, Im not persuaded it would have 
likely stopped them from proceeding or have ultimately prevented their loss. I say this 
because when Mrs S was questioned about the payments she was making by another 
bank (as part of the same scam), she was not honest or upfront about what she was 
doing.
When questioned about the payment, Mrs S told her other bank that she hadnt spoken 
to anyone claiming to be an investment broker, and neither had she downloaded any 
remote access software to her device. Both of these claims were not true, as Mrs S was 
in contact with someone claiming to be an investment broker, who had asked her to 
download remote access software. Mrs S has said that she was coached by the 
scammer in what to say, and trusted him implicitly. This was even to the extent that she 
misled other lenders as to the true purpose of the loans she was taking out to fund 
further investments with the scammer. 
So, even if Halifax had intervened and questioned Mr and Mrs S about the payments 
they were making, Im not persuaded this wouldve likely revealed that they were falling 
for a scam or ultimately prevented their loss. Therefore, I dont think its failure to look 
more closely into the payments can be considered the proximate cause of Mr and 
Mrs Ss loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely they would have provided false 
information to Halifax as well in order to make the payments. As such, I dont consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Halifax liable for failing to prevent the scam.
Halifax are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr and Mrs S under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code only applies to 
payments made to another person (which wouldnt have been the case here given the 
payments were made to Mr and Mrs Ss own crypto wallet with Skrill before being moved 
on to the scammer). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, and Im sorry to hear 
theyve fallen victim to a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Halifax can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for their loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman