DRN-4460694
Complaint
Mr T has complained that Plane Saver Credit Union Limited (Plane Saver) provided him 
with unaffordable loans. 
This complaint is about a number of what should be termed as unregulated loans. 
Nonetheless, Plane Saver is a lender for the purpose of our compulsory rules and the loans 
in question were lending money.  
Mr T says the loans were unaffordable and simply increased the amount he owed.  
Background
Plane Saver provided Mr T with an initial loan for £3,335.09 in October 2017. The loan had 
an APR of 12.7% and the total amount to be repaid of £3,797.28, which included interest of 
£462.19, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £158.22. 
In April 2018, Mr T was provided with a second loan. This loan was for £17,995.00 and to 
purchase a vehicle Mr T had already selected. It had an APR of 6.9% and the total amount 
to be repaid of £21,333.60, which included interest of £3,328.60, was due to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of £355.57.  
Plane Saver then provided Mr T with a third loan for £2,984.32 in December 2018. £1,484.32 
of the funds from this loan went towards settling the remaining balance on loan 1. This loan 
had an APR of 16.2% and the total amount to be repaid of £3,470.39, which included 
interest of £486.07, was due to be repaid in 22 monthly instalments of £157.33. 
In July 2021, after having had a change of circumstances as well as a number of discussions 
regarding reducing his payments, Mr T was provided with a refinance loan. As I understand 
it this loan was to refinance the remaining balance on loan 2. 
The amount of the advance was £7.020.37 and all of the funds went towards repaying what 
was owing on loan 2. The loan had an APR of 9.6% and a term of 44 months. This meant 
that the total amount to be repaid of £8,302.58, which included interest, fees and charges of 
£1,282.21, was due to be repaid in 44 monthly instalments of £188.58.  
One of our investigators considered Mr Ts complaint. He told Plane Saver that it shouldnt 
have provided Mr T with any of these loans as it ought to have seen that he was struggling 
financially and therefore not in a position to make the required repayments. So he upheld the 
complaint. 
Plane Saver disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
review. As this was the case the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision of 6 November 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 6 November 2023 - setting out why I was intending to 
partially uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
In summary, I thought that Mr Ts complaint should be partially upheld because Plane Saver 
didnt act unfairly when agreeing to provide loans 1, 2 and 4 to Mr T. But it also ought 
reasonably to have realised that it shouldnt have provided loan 3 so it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably when providing Mr T with this loan. 
I then set out a method of putting things right which I considered addressed Plane Savers 
shortcomings and Mr Ts resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Plane Saver didnt have provide anything further that it wished for me to consider.
Mr T disagreed with my provisional decision stating:
He felt that some parts of the provisional decision felt like a personal scrutiny over 
him.
The provisional decision has gone in a completely different direction to the 
investigator who initially reviewed the case.
The second loan had the highest burden and Plane Saver was aware of his position 
at this stage.
He has provided proof of Plane Saver being irresponsible yet it has appeared to get 
off lightly whereas his spending and borrowing habits have been analysed with a fine 
tooth comb.
I cannot say that all the non-contractual payments going out of his account are 
unimportant or not part of his budget and expenditure.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im minded to only partially uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
I appreciate that this is a different outcome form that of the investigator that initially reviewed 
the case. 
But I am not bound by the outcomes reached by investigators that look at individual cases. 
And for the reasons I explain the investigator has got the regulatory obligations of the Credit 
Union, incorrect. I will explain why this is makes a difference in the case in more detail. 
Furthermore, while Mr T believes that his complaint has been judged harshly and that Plane 
Saver has been judged more favourably. However, I am required to apply the same 
standards as I do against all Credit Unions. And Im satisfied that there has been no bias or 
lack of accountability in this case.It is important to note that Mr Ts agreements were unregulated and so Plane Savers 
obligations arent exactly the same as those for most lenders. In particular, as it is a Credit 
Union, Plane Savers specialist sourcebook is the Credit Unions sourcebook (CREDS) 
rather than the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) given it wasnt carrying out credit-
related regulated activities when providing these loans to Mr T. 
Nonetheless, as it is a firm authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), I consider 
it fair and reasonable to expect Plane Saver to have carried out reasonable enquiries into           
Mr Ts circumstances to check that hed be able to make the payments to these loans. Id 
also only expect it to have proceeded in the event that those reasonable enquiries 
demonstrated that Mr T could make the payments.
 
Plane Savers enquiries into Mr Ts circumstances before it agreed to lend to him
For loan 1 Plane Savers enquiries suggested that Mr T was employed with the military. 
During the course of its enquiries, Plane Saver carried out a credit search which showed he 
had debts with high-cost and payday lenders. But that this loan, which was being provided at 
a much lower rate of interest, was going to consolidate those debts and meant that a lower 
proportion of his monthly income would be taken up with repayments to credit.  
Plane Saver also obtained payslips and a bank statement from Mr T. Plane Saver also 
appears to have carried out similar checks before agreeing to provide loans 2 and 3. And it 
looks like Mr T was still using payday and other high-cost loans at the time of loans 2 and 3. 
For loan 4, which was provided after Mr T had left the military, it looks like Mr T completed a 
detailed income and expenditure assessment and also provided a copy of a bank statement.
Our investigator told Plane Saver that obtaining a single bank statement during the course of 
its income and expenditure assessments meant that its checks werent reasonable. In his 
view, three months worth of bank statements should have been obtained. But Im afraid I 
dont agree with this. There isnt an agreed number of bank statements that should be 
obtained during the course of an income and expenditure assessment  indeed it wont even 
always be reasonable to expect a lender to obtain bank statements before lending. 
The important thing that a lender needs to do before lending is to gather enough information 
in order to be able to make an informed decision on whether to lend. In this case, bearing in 
mind Plane Saver says and it has evidenced that it obtained a significant amount of 
information on Mr Ts circumstances, before lending on each occasion, Im prepared to 
accept that it did carry out reasonable enquiries into Mr Ts financial circumstances  at least 
in terms of the information requested  before providing these loans.
However, it isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a prospective 
borrower before deciding to lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a 
reasonable amount of information, it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and 
reasonably towards the borrower if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the 
information it obtained. 
Ive therefore considered whether Plane Saver carried out a fair and reasonable evaluation 
of the information it obtained about Mr T.Did Plane Saver carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it gathered 
before deciding to lend to Mr T?
Loan 1
Our investigator said that Plane Saver shouldnt have provided loan 1 to Mr T as it was 
apparent that he was in a cycle of payday and high-cost lending. There doesnt appear to be 
any debate that Mr T owed a number of payday and high-cost lenders a substantial amount 
and that Plane Saver was aware of this. 
However, what is also not in dispute is that the proceeds of this loan were to be used to clear 
the balances with Mr Ts existing creditors at an exponentially lower rate of interest. Indeed, 
given just how much lower the interest rate was on this loan, Id even go as far as saying 
that it had the effect of providing forbearance on Mr Ts existing debts.
Plane Saver also ensured that the funds from this loan could only be used to repay Mr Ts 
existing creditors by sending the funds directly to his creditors, rather than providing the 
proceeds to Mr T and allowing him to settle the loans with his providers. Equally, having 
reviewed the bank statements obtained, I cant see anything on them which indicated Mr T 
wouldnt have been able to make the repayments to this loan once his other debts were 
cleared. 
I appreciate that there was always a risk that Mr T could simply continue taking out further 
loans with the providers whose loans were being settled. But Plane Saver couldnt know that 
this was what Mr T would do at this stage. All it could do is rely on Mr Ts assurances  it 
couldnt instruct the other high-cost and payday lenders not to lend to Mr T further  and it 
was reasonably entitled to believe that this loan would place Mr T in a much better position. 
After all, Mr T would be in a better position provided he didnt take out further lending 
elsewhere.
Bearing this in mind and the information in the bank statements not contradicting the income 
and expenditure assessment, Im currently minded to conclude that Plane Saver didnt act 
unfairly when providing loan 1 to  Mr T. And this leaves me not intending to uphold the 
complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr Ts second loan was provided in order for him to purchase a car. Mr T has said that his 
motor dealer encouraged him to use Plane Saver for his purchase as hed pay less tax. It is 
not apparent to me how or why Mr T would pay less tax as a result of his choice of lender. 
Although as Mr Ts loan payments were deducted from his salary its possible that this could 
have had something to do with matters.
In any event, at this stage Plane Saver was providing Mr T with the funds for a vehicle, 
rather than a cash loan. I also understand that even though this wasnt a conventional hire-
purchase or conditional-sale agreement the funds were transferred directly to the motor 
dealership the vehicle was purchased from and Plane Saver recorded an interest in the 
vehicle.         
The information Ive seen also shows that Mr T was already paying £240 a month towards 
an existing conditional-sale agreement with a different lender and this would be ended as a 
result of Mr T purchasing his new vehicle. So Mr T effectively had to pay an extra £115 a 
month at a result of this agreement. Its also worth noting that not only is it likely that this loan had a much lower interest rate than 
Mr Ts previous agreement but it would have automatically resulted in Mr T owning the 
vehicle outright at the end of the term as long as he made his payments. This is in contrast 
to Mr Ts previous agreement, which as a Personal Contract Purchase agreement, had a 
large lump-sum balloon payment which needed to be made at the end of the term, in 
addition to the regular monthly payment. 
The income and expenditure assessment carried out does appear to indicate that the extra 
Mr T would have to pay as a result of the increased payments, was affordable. Mr Ts bank 
statements and the credit search carried out indicated that Mr T still had some payday and 
high-cost credit use. And the notes from the time appear to indicate that Mr T was warned 
about the consequences of such borrowing and that this would impact his ability to obtain 
further credit, both with Plane Saver and elsewhere, going forward. 
More importantly, looking at Mr Ts bank statement, while I do not seek to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr Ts expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from his account. Unfortunately this comes across as me having gone through Mr Ts 
finances with a fine tooth comb. But I can assure Mr T that this isnt the case. As the bank 
statements played a part in Plane Savers decision to lend, it simply is a case of looking 
through them looking to see if Plane Saver made a fair lending decision. 
Mr T has said that all the non-contractual payments going out of his account are not 
unimportant or not part of his budget and expenditure. But the question is would they 
legitimately have prevented Plane Saver from lending to Mr T. And having considered the 
case, I dont think that Plane Saver would more likely than not have been prevented from 
lending to Mr T, bearing in mind the transactions on his bank statements. 
I dont think that this statement clearly demonstrates that when Mr Ts committed and 
contractual expenditure is deducted from his income, the additional amount Mr T would have 
to pay each month as a result of this agreement is clearly unaffordable. 
Mr T may believe that the result of this assessment has been that it is been a scrutiny of his 
spending. And Mr T may even go further and say that Plane Saver my not be held to 
account for its actions. I am sorry that Mr T feels this way. However, a scrutiny of an 
individuals finances is bound to be an emotive subject. And as Mr T has alleged that he has 
lost of because of what Plane Saver did wrong. And now many years after the event, I have 
to try and recreate whether or not reasonable checks would have made a difference here. 
Bearing in mind, Mr T was being provided with funds to purchase a vehicle of his choosing at 
a lower interest rate and the information in the bank statement not contradicting income and 
expenditure assessment, Im currently minded to conclude that Plane Saver didnt act 
unfairly when providing loan 2 to Mr T. And this leaves me not intending to uphold the 
complaint about loan 2 either.
Loan 3
Loan 3 was provided to Mr T only eight months or so after loan 2. And at this stage Mr T 
hadnt repaid loan 1 either. Ive already explained that Plane Saver had noted that Mr T was 
still using payday and high-cost loans at the time that he applied for loan 2. And having 
looked at the information from the time, I can see that Mr T was still using payday and high-
cost loans at the time of loan 3. 
Given Plane Saver said that Mr Ts continued usage of such products would impact on his 
ability to borrow further, I would have expected it to have played a significant role in Plane Savers decision making. I say this while particular mindful of the fact that loan 1 had been 
provided to clear Mr Ts cycle of high-cost and payday lending and 14 months later Mr T was 
still borrowing from these lenders in the same way.  
So while it remains the case that Mr Ts bank statement continues to show significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from his account, nonetheless I do think that Plane Saver ought reasonably to have taken 
account of Mr Ts pattern of borrowing when deciding whether to provide further funds to 
him. 
And I think that by loan 3, Plane Saver ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that       
Mr Ts financial position was such that further loans were simply unsustainable for him. In my 
view, Mr Ts repayment record suggested he was moving further and further away from the 
eventual debt-free position consolidation loans (such as the one provided for loan 1) are, in 
theory at least, supposed to leave a borrower at the end. 
Mr T was not only looking to prolong the period of time hed be paying loan 1 for, as he was 
refinancing it over a similar term despite having been 14 months in, he was also taking 
himself back to the position he was at the start by increasing his borrowing back up to a 
similar level. I know that Mr T considers this was deliberate and an indication that Plane 
Saver was acting in its own interests. 
But I dont think it is the case. Its my view that Plane Saver believed that a further 
consolidation loan at a far better interest rate than Mr T would be able to obtain on the open 
market might have been a solution to his problem. And it is more a case of it failing to 
consider the overall pattern of lending and look Mr Ts financial position in a holistic way.
Nonetheless, having considered everything, Im currently minded to conclude that Plane 
Saver didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr T when providing loan 3. This is because it 
provided loan 3 in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful for Mr T and increased his overall indebtedness where hed struggle to 
repay what he was being lent.
Loan 4
I think it would be helpful for me to start my consideration of loan 4 by saying that in the 
ordinary course of events, where a fourth loan was provided eighteen months or so after a 
firm ought reasonably to have realised that a third loan was increasing a borrowers 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, it would normally follow 
that the fourth loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided. 
However, given the particular circumstances here, I dont think that it automatically follows 
that loan 4 was unfairly provided to Mr T. I say this because even though Mr T signed a new 
agreement he wasnt provided with any further funds as this agreement was a restructure of 
the remaining balance on loan 2. So Mr Ts indebtedness wasnt being increased although 
he might have to pay more overall as the term of his loan was being increased. 
It isnt in dispute that by this stage, Mr T had got in contact with Plane Saver and said that as 
a result of a change in his employment circumstances he was struggling to make the 
payments to loan 2. I understand that Mr T went as far as contacting a debt charity in order 
to set up a debt management plan.
Its important to note that once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulty its fair and reasonable to expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration in 
accordance with generally accepted standards. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate 
way to move forward. 
Having considered the content of the correspondence between Plane Saver and Mr T it 
looks like there were attempts to determine whether this was a temporary situation which 
required a short-term plan (such as temporarily allowing payments from Mr Ts savings) or 
whether a longer-term solution was needed. 
I appreciate that Mr T considers that this wasnt doing him a favour or helping his situation. 
But Mr T wasnt permitted access to his savings until the amount of them exceeded the 
outstanding balance on his borrowing. This was a term and condition of his membership of 
the Credit Union and so Im satisfied that allowing payments to be made from Mr Ts savings 
in this way, was a concession on Plane Savers part. And this effectively provided some 
breathing space to come up with a longer-term solution.
Mr T has said that Plane Saver did not answer the telephone calls of his debt management 
company. I dont know whether this is the case as that is what his debt management 
company have told him. But, in any event, Mr T did not go ahead with a debt management 
plan and instead requested making reduced payments, Plane Saver asked him to complete 
an income and expenditure assessment and also provide a payslip and bank statement. As 
a result of the information, Plane Saver agreed to reduce Mr Ts monthly payment by around 
50%. 
I appreciate that Mr T is unhappy that this resulted in more interest being charged but this 
was because the term of the loan was being increased and this meant that Mr T would have 
to pay interest over a longer term. There even isnt anything in the guidance for regulated 
agreements, which Plane Saver wouldnt automatically be subject to, which states that 
forbearance has to always be offered on an interest free basis. What a lender has to do is to 
find an affordable solution for the borrower to be able to repay what they owe. 
Furthermore, Mr T said he wanted to temporarily reduce his payments and he still had the 
option to overpay should his circumstances improve and he wished to limit the amount of 
interest hed have to pay.
Im also mindful that in this instance, the interest rate was relatively low at 9.6% APR. And 
more importantly the information in Mr Ts bank statement didnt indicate that hed have 
difficulties making the required payments. Indeed, from what I can see on the bank 
statement Mr T wasnt using, or at least wasnt using the account he provided statements for 
to make or receive payments to, payday and high-cost lenders in the same way as he was 
previously. 
So while I appreciate that he was on a reduced income, I do think that Plane Saver was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr T would be able to make the reduced payment 
required for loan 4. As this is the case, Im currently minded to conclude that Plane Saver 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr T when it provided loan 4. 
In my view, it reduced Mr Ts payments to an affordable level. It did not increase the overall 
amount Mr T had to pay to an amount that was unsustainable and if Mr Ts inability to make 
the original payment was temporary he still had the option of increasing his payments. Im 
therefore not intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint about this loan. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im issuing a final decision which finds that 
Plane Saver acted fairly and reasonably when providing loans 1, 2 and 4 to Mr T. But that it 
didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr T when providing loan 3 to him. As Mr T had to pay interest and charges on a loan he should never have been provided with 
 loan 3 - Im issuing a final decision which finds that he had lost out as a result of Plane 
Saver failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him when providing loan 3. 
Fair compensation  what Plane Saver needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue a final decision which says Plane 
Saver should put things right for Mr T by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr T paid on loan 3;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr T to the date of settlement
using the refund from the above to reduce what Mr T owes on loan 4;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file as a result of loan 3.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Plane Saver to take off tax from this interest. Plane 
Saver must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
I understand that the outstanding balance on loan 4 has been cleared as a result of Mr T 
selling his vehicle. As the parties have agreed this is the case, I am satisfied that no further 
action needs to be taken in relation to this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint. Plane Saver Credit 
Union Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman