DRN-3672630
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society deactivated Mrs Ls debit card 
without waring causing her distress, inconvenience and embarrassment. They want an 
apology for the upset caused and compensation.
What happened
In May 2022, Mrs L tried to pay for her weekly shopping, but her card was declined. She 
says she had to leave her shopping at the store and travel home so that she and Mr L could 
travel to another store with his debit card. Mrs L was caused distress and embarrassment by 
the incident and they incurred travel costs and wasted time. 
Nationwide issued its final response letter dated 1 June 2022. It said that Mrs L was sent a 
letter dated 27 April 2022 and this was returned to it. Because of this a restriction was placed 
on the account as a safeguarding measure. It said it was sorry that this caused Mrs L 
inconvenience, but it didnt accept that it had made a mistake. It said Mrs L should make 
contact to ensure her address details were correct. 
Mr L and Mrs L didnt accept Nationwides response and referred their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr L said that the account is a joint account and they moved 
in March 2021 and notified Nationwide of the new address in April 2021 and hadnt 
experienced any issues since then until the incident in May 2022. Mr L said that they had 
opted to be paperless so correspondence was through email, text or messages.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Nationwide had confirmed that 
although Mr L updated his address, Mrs L didnt. He noted that Nationwides guidance about 
updating an address on a joint account said that both parties needed to do this. He noted 
that Nationwide didnt have an email address or mobile number registered for Mrs L and so 
further contact wasnt possible. Given the returned mail he didnt think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong by placing the restriction on Mrs Ls debit card.
Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree without our investigators view. Mr L said that if Nationwide was 
unable to contact Mrs L it should have emailed him to request that she make contact. He 
said they had joint accounts with other banks and their address had been updated without 
issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr L and Mrs L are upset by the actions taken by Nationwide in regard 
to Mrs Ls debit card. I can also understand how embarrassing, upsetting and inconvenient it 
was for Mrs L when her card was declined. As our investigator explained it isnt not the role 
of this service to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes but we can consider 
how these have been applied and whether Nationwide did anything wrong or if its actions 
meant that Mrs L was treated unfairly.
Mr L and Mrs L moved in March 2021 and Mr L has explained that he updated their address. 
Nationwide has confirmed that Mr L updated his address in April 2021 but that no request to 
change address was received from Mrs L. It said that as Mr L was the main account holder, 
it would only update the statement address for the second account holder not the 
correspondence address. Nationwide has provided information showing that both parties to 
a joint account need to update their address if this changes. Therefore, I cannot say that 
Nationwide did anything wrong or acted outside of its terms and conditions by not updating 
Mrs Ls address as a result of Mr Ls update.
Mrs L didnt update her address with Nationwide, and a letter was sent to the old address 
and returned. Up to this time, I understand Mrs L had been able to use her debit card without 
issue. This isnt unreasonable as up to the mail being returned there wasnt a trigger for 
further action. However due to the returned mail, Nationwide has explained it followed its 
process of placing a restriction on Mrs Ls debit card. I understand this was distressing for 
Mrs L, but I cannot say that Nationwide did anything wrong by taking this action. The 
returned mail will have raised concerns and so safeguarding measures were put in place. I 
do not find this unreasonable.
Mr L has said that he should have been contacted so that he could get Mrs L to contact 
Nationwide. I understand why he has said this. but I accept that Nationwide would only 
contact Mrs L in this situation as the returned mail was addressed to her. I note Mr Ls 
comments about contact by email or text but I also note that Nationwide doesnt hold an 
email address or mobile phone number for Mrs L. 
In conclusion, while I understand the upset and inconvenience caused by this issue, I do not 
find that I can say Nationwide did anything wrong or treated Mrs L unfairly. Therefore, I do 
not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman