DRN-3406564
The complaint
Mr A believes Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a hire purchase agreement hed applied for.
Mr A is being represented in this complaint by Mrs A. But, for ease of reference, my decision 
will refer to them both as Mr A.
What happened
On 29 March 2019, Mr A took out a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to fund the 
purchase of a new car. He paid a deposit of £1,350 and the agreement was for £23,985 over 
48 months, with 47 monthly repayments of £345.31 and a final payment of £10,184.
Mr As income was impacted by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic which resulted in him 
losing his job. In March 2020 he contacted VWFS and asked for 60-days breathing space. 
And on 6 April 2020 he asked what his options were for ending the agreement.
On 30 April 2020, he asked VWFS for a payment deferral (also known as a payment 
holiday). But VWFS declined this on 18 May 2020, as Mr A had already asked about ending 
the agreement and returning the car. A few weeks later, Mr A applied again for a payment 
deferral, and this was approved on 16 June 2020. VWFS discussed the terms of this in a call 
on 26 June 2020, and Mr A signed the paperwork to accept the terms of the deferral on 28 
June 2020.
Mr A applied for a further payment deferral on 1 August 2020, but VWFS declined this as 
being unsuitable  they say that Mr A failed to answer all the questions he was asked.
In November 2020, Mr A felt he could no longer afford the payments, and he contacted 
VWFS to discuss his options. But he couldnt afford the voluntary termination (VT) shortfall.
Mr A complained to VWFS that they shouldnt have approved the agreement  he was only 
18 at the time, and hed only been in his job for three months. He also complained that 
VWFS had recorded the payment deferral as missed payments on his credit file, and that 
theyd told him he could add the deferred payments to the end of the agreement, which 
wasnt the case.
VWFS said theyd carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, which showed that the 
agreement was affordable for Mr A. So, they didnt think they shouldnt have approved the 
agreement. But they did say their customer service when dealing with his complaint couldve 
been better. And they corrected Mr As credit file and offered him £50 compensation. Mr A 
wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us investigation.
Our investigator said she thought VWFS had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks when they assessed Mr As application. And these showed the agreement was 
affordable. So, she thought theyd made a fair lending decision.
The investigator thought that VWFS had acted fairly when they approved the payment 
deferral for Mr A. But she didnt think theyd acted fairly by not considering his circumstances 
when deciding to increase the remaining payments, instead of extending the agreement. 
But, because Mr A has been making the new (increased) payments, she didnt think it was 
reasonable for VWFS to now restructure the agreement. And she thought they should pay 
Mr A an additional £150 compensation.
The investigator also said that she hadnt seen anything to show that VWFS hadnt corrected 
Mr As credit file. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything more about this.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that he was told 100% at the beginning of Covid that all 
payments owed would definitely be added on to the agreement and no extra per month was 
to be paid. And he said that he was told this in multiple phone calls. He also didnt think it 
was fair that he could take out the agreement with less than 12-months employment history.
Mr A was also unhappy that VWFS collected the payment for May 2020, despite a payment 
holiday being agreed. Hes also said that his financial circumstances have now changed, 
because of Covid-19, and hes had to take a job with a lower salary. Which means that he 
cant afford the payments to VWFS. And hes provided a copy of an income and expenditure 
statement to show this. 
Mr A also didnt think that £200 was sufficient for all the stress and anxiety and phone calls 
for over 18 months. Mrs A has also explained how this experience has affected her, and 
she thinks VWFS should consider this  if theyd wanted Mr A to deal with this complaint, 
then they shouldve never let her act as his representative.
Mr A has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
affordability
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did VWFS make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr A 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that VWFS didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr As 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr A signed on 2 March 2019, and this details the 
information hed given VWFS as part of the application process. This says he was 18 years 
and 7 months old, living with his parent(s), and had been in his current employment for three 
months. Mr A was legally able to enter into an agreement from the age of 18, and it would be 
illegal to discriminate against him and refuse his application just because of his age. As 
such, while I appreciate that Mr A now thinks he was too young to take out the finance, I 
dont think VWFS did anything wrong by not refusing his application because of his age.
VWFS have said that Mr As application was credit scored and a background check was 
done. However, they dont have the facility to reproduce these and provide them for 
consideration. But VWFS have provided copies of the bank statements Mr A supplied as part 
of his application.
Ive seen Mr As bank statements for the period 12 December 2018 to 11 February 2019. 
These show a large amount of discretionary spending and transfers in and out of another 
account Mr A had. The bank statements show that the account was conducted well, and 
there were no instances of Mr A going overdrawn. There were some betting transactions, but 
nothing to indicate a gambling problem. And Mr A hasnt said he had a gambling problem.
The bank statements also show an average monthly income of £1,816 and Mr As only 
regular expenditure was his mobile phone - an average of £113 a month. Given that Mr A 
declared he lived with his parents, I wouldnt necessarily expect to see any regular outgoings 
for utility bills, council tax etc. So, based on what Ive seen, Mr A had £1,703 disposable 
income each month. Which Im satisfied would be sufficient to pay any board to his parents, 
to pay for the costs of running a car (fuel, tax, insurance), pay VWFS, and still have 
disposable income for his discretionary spending.
As VWFS are unable to replicate this, Mr A has been asked to provide a copy of his credit 
file to show what his outgoings were at the time of application. But he declined to provide 
this, instead saying that he did not have bad credit at the time the agreement was taken 
out. And he didnt want the negative impact of looking at his credit score.
Given that Mr A has said he didnt have any bad credit at the time of the application, I think 
the credit check VWFS carried out is unlikely to have shown any adverse information. And, 
without any additional evidence to show that Mr A had additional outgoings that werent 
showing on his bank statements in early 2019, Im satisfied that the checks VWFS carried 
out were reasonable and proportionate and show the agreement was affordable to Mr A.
Did VWFS make a fair lending decision?
Ive seen that Mr A applied for the finance on 11 February 2019 and signed the paperwork 
on 2 March 2019. So, Im satisfied that he was given sufficient time to review and consider 
whether it was right for him. And Ive not seen anything to show that he was in any way 
pressurised into taking out the agreement.Mr A has also explained that he was only a few months into his job when he applied for the 
agreement. But he hasnt provided anything to show me that his employment was either 
temporary, or that it was in some way unstable i.e. he was still in a probationary period and 
was unlikely to be made permanent. Whats more, I havent seen that he told VWFS there 
may be problems with his ongoing employment.
So, as theres nothing to show that Mr As employment wasnt going to continue, I dont think 
VWFS have done anything wrong by approving the finance without him being in employment 
for a longer period of time. 
Given the above, I dont think VWFS acted unfairly when they made their lending decision. 
And this is also shown by the statement of Mr As account, which shows that he was able to 
make the payments to VWFS without any difficulties until he lost his job. 
Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think VWFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
payment deferral
Theres some dispute as to what Mr A was told when he applied for the payment deferral. 
While Mr A he was told that the deferred payments would be added to the end of the term, 
VWFS have said that this option wasnt available to Mr A, due to the length of time the 
finance agreement still had to run.
Ive asked VWFS for a copy of the call of 26 June 2020, where they discussed the payment 
deferral terms with Mr A. But they havent provided this. And their case notes for this call just 
say that the length of payment deferrals and options were discussed.
VWFS have also said that Mr A signed paperwork agreeing to the terms of the payment 
deferral  that the deferred payments would be split across the existing term, and the 
monthly payment increased accordingly. But they havent provided a copy of this paperwork.
Theres nothing in the payment deferral guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in April 2020 that says the term cannot be extended when a payment deferral is 
granted. Given this, given that Mr A believed that the deferral was granted on the basis that 
it would be the term, and not the monthly payments, that increased, and given that VWFS 
have not been able to show that Mr A agreed to something different to his understanding; Im 
satisfied that VWFS didnt act fairly when agreeing the payment deferral. And they need to 
do something to put things right.
Putting things right
While I dont think that VWFS acted fairly, Mr A has been paying the increased payment. 
And, given this, I dont think that VWFS now restructuring the agreement would be the best 
option. So, Im in agreement with the investigator that VWFS should pay Mr A some 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
However, I need to consider that Mr A has also been affected by the loss of his job, and the 
financial difficulties this has caused him. And while this has certainly added to the stress of 
the situation, its not something VWFS can be held responsible for. Whats more, Mrs A has explained that shes also been distressed and inconvenienced as 
Mr As representative. However, as the agreement was in Mr As sole name, I can only 
consider the impact on him. And I dont think VWFS letting Mrs A act as her sons 
representative in this matter changes this. 
So, taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied the £150 compensation (on top of the 
£50 VWFS had already paid Mr A) recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. And I wont be increasing this amount.
Mr A has also asked about handing the car back with nothing more to pay. This can be done 
under the VT terms in the agreement. But doing so would leave a shortfall, as Mr A hasnt 
paid the minimum amount hed need to, to be able to do this with nothing more to pay.
As Mr A is currently in financial difficulties, Id expect VWFS to follow the FCA guidance 
about treating him with consideration and forbearance. And Id hope theyd consider allowing 
him to hand the car back, and pay off any shortfall in affordable instalments, if this is 
something that would work for both parties. But it isnt something Im able to tell them to do.
So, VWFS should pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr As complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman