DRN-3513090
The complaint
Mr H has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold him a number of 
fee-paying accounts.
Mr H says that he was led to believe he needed the accounts to obtain loans and overdrafts.
Account history
Account 1
Opened as a fee-free account
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege account 28 March 2002
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Premier account 13 October 2003
Downgraded to a fee-free account 24 July 2005
Account closed 24 November 2005
Account 2
Opened as a fee-paying Privilege Premier account 24 July 2005
Downgraded to a fee-free account 4 October 2007
Closed 6 November 2007
Account 3
Opened as a fee-paying Privilege account 8 October 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Premier account 13 November 2007
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that the packaged 
accounts had been mis-sold.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it may also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to decide what I think most likely 
happened, based on everything that is available. 
Mr H has said that he felt obliged to take out the packaged accounts, if he wanted to obtain 
loans or overdrafts. However, I can see that Mr H successfully applied for a loan in 2000, i.e. 
before hed taken out a packaged account. I can also see that Mr H had an overdraft, and 
was able to increase the limit on that overdraft, before he first held a packaged account. As 
such, I think that Mr H was generally aware that he didnt need a fee-paying packaged 
account in order to be able to obtain an overdraft or loan. 
One of the features of the Privilege account was that it provided a £100 interest free 
overdraft facility, as well as preferential interest rates on overdrawn balances above this 
amount  up to the agreed limit. The Privilege Premier account included a £260 interest free 
overdraft facility, as well as preferential interest rates. And having either of the accounts 
meant that Mr H was able to avoid paying an annual overdraft fee and monthly overdraft 
fees that were applicable to fee-free accounts as well. 
So, in the circumstances, I think its just as likely that Mr H chose to upgrade his accounts, 
and even transferred one type of packaged account to another, because he was attracted to 
the benefits that they provided, rather than because he thought he had to have a packaged 
account to obtain an overdraft. I say this especially as I can see that Mr H was able to 
increase his overdraft limit, both when it was a fee-free account and also when it was on the 
cheaper Privilege account. And if Mr H thought that he had to have a packaged account to 
have an overdraft, I wouldve expected him to have stuck with the cheaper Privilege account 
 rather than agree (on multiple occasions) to upgrade to the more expensive Privilege 
Premier account. I therefore think it more likely that he did this knowing that each account 
was optional, and he could choose to upgrade and downgrade his accounts when he wished 
to do so. 
I cant be sure what information Mr H was provided with about each of the accounts during 
these sales, although I think it likely that at the very least the cost and key benefits 
(especially the overdraft benefits) wouldve been explained to Mr H. I accept it is possible not 
everything was fully explained to Mr H during each sale. But looking at Mr Hs 
circumstances, Ive not seen anything specific that makes me think he wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the accounts, had he been given even more information about them. 
Overall, having looked through everything that has been provided, on balance Im unable to 
say that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. 
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr H may now regret agreeing to 
them or he now feels that they have been poor value for money over the years that hes held 
packaged accounts. But that in itself doesnt mean that Co-op was wrong to have sold the 
accounts when it did.
I therefore dont think it would be appropriate to require Co-op to refund the account fees 
that Mr H has paid for the packaged accounts.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman