DRN-1708732
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr S was sold a PPI policy in 1991 in connection with a loan. The PPI would have provided 
a monthly benefit for up to 24 months if Mr S was off work sick or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr S didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint about PPI being mis-sold. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why Ive reached 
this decision .
First of all Ive considered whether Mr S was eligible under the policy. Based on his age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mr S was eligible for the 
policy. 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr S that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to Mr Ss account. 
Clearly, I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And Halifax no longer have the 
documents from the time of the sale which I would ordinarily have turned to in order to help 
me decide what is more likely to have happened. However, this is understandable given that 
the sale took place over 28 years ago. Equally understandably Mr S no longer has the 
documents relating to the sale of the loan and his recollection of what was actually 
discussed is limited. 
Mr S hasnt said that he was told he had to take PPI or that he didnt agree to take it out. He 
says that the representative would in all probability have urged him to agree to PPI. 
In these circumstances, I dont have sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that its more 
likely that PPI wasnt presented as optional or that it was added without his consent. And I 
dont have sufficient evidence to conclude, on the basis of what Mr S has said, that he was 
pressured into taking PPI.Halifax say they advised Mr S to take PPI. This means they had to take reasonable steps to 
check if the PPI was suitable for him. Mr S says that it wasnt suitable for him because (in 
summary) he had adequate resources in place for if he was unable to work due to ill health, 
he was in extremely secure employment with redundancy being highly unlikely and in any 
event he could easily have sought employment elsewhere due to his position and 
experience. 
I have thought very carefully about what Mr S has told us about his particular circumstances 
at the time of the sale and am grateful for the efforts Mr S has made to provide evidence in 
support. However, having taken all this into consideration, I still think the PPI was suitable for 
him. I will go on to explain why.
First of all Ive considered what Mr S has told us about his existing provisions for if he was 
off work sick. I note Mr S would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from his employer if he was unable to work due to ill health. However, the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for a much longer period of time. I have 
thought about what Mr S has told us about his limited expenditure and the impact this had on 
the sick pay lasting longer than what might be the case ordinarily. In particular Mr S has told 
us about his unusual and fortunate circumstances which meant he didnt have any 
mortgage repayments, no rent to pay, reduced (equivalent of) council tax and exemption 
from water and sewage charges. However, I dont think this made the PPI unsuitable for Mr 
S because Mr S would still have had other living expenses which needed to be taken care of 
and Mr S could have used his sick pay for these other living expenses while the PPI took 
care of the loan repayments for an extended period of time.
I will now move onto Mr Ss other resources. One of the policies Mr S has referred us to 
would only have paid out if Mr S suffered from an accident while on duty at work or 
commuting to and from work. So this wouldnt have made PPI unsuitable for Mr S as the PPI 
policy would have paid in much wider circumstances. Mr S has told us about his pension 
benefits. However, Mr S wasnt in receipt of these benefits at the time of the sale and I note 
that although its possible Mr S may have been able to access his pension before retirement 
age on compassionate grounds, this wouldnt have been guaranteed as it was at the 
employers discretion and I note that he would have had to have been in permanent ill -
health/permanently incapacitated. This was not a requirement under the PPI policy as it 
would have paid out for illnesses which meant Mr S was unable to work at that time. So 
again I dont think these benefits meant that PPI was unsuitable.
I appreciate what Mr S has told us about his death in service benefit but PPI was primarily 
concerned with protecting repayments due to ill health and unemployment. 
Moving on to what Mr S has told us about the secure nature of his employment and being 
able to obtain employment easily elsewhere, it must be borne in mind that PPI was to 
provide protection in the event that the unexpected might happen. And although I dont doubt 
what Mr S has told us about his job stability at the time of the sale, redundancy is not 
something which could have been guaranteed not to happen. And the job market can 
fluctuate. The PPI would have protected Mr Ss loan repayments if the unexpected 
happened and would also have given him an opportunity to obtain employment elsewhere 
without having to worry about find extra funds to meet his loan repayments. 
Ive next gone on to consider whether there was anything which may have prevented Mr S 
from making a successful claim under the policy. From the information I have, Mr S doesnt 
appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would have made it difficult for 
him to make a successful claim under the policy. For example, terms relating to certain 
medical conditions and unusual working arrangements. So I think Mr S could have 
potentially availed himself of all the cover under the policy. Further, I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr S. Mr S could have 
cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if he no longer wanted or needed 
it.
In addition to checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr S, Halifax also had to give Mr S clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the 
policy  so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S wasnt as clear as it should have been but this 
in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information at the time of the sale about the PPI policy would have put Mr S off taking it out. 
And I dont think it would have. I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable 
for him.
I note what Mr S has said about not being sold PPI with a loan he took out from another 
business about a year or so after this loan. I dont know why this other business didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr S but I have to look at the specifics of this complaint to decide 
whether PPI was mis-sold by Halifax on this particular occasion. I also note what Mr S has 
said about it being unreasonable that he has been compensated for the mis-sale of PPI 
relating to a loan taken out after this loan and which refinanced this loan, when he had 
increased exposure but that he hasnt been compensated for the PPI on this loan when his 
exposure would have been less. I dont know the reason Mr Ss PPI complaint was upheld 
on the refinanced loan  and for that matter the other loans that formed part of the chain. 
However, each case is decided on its own merits and for the reasons already set out, I dont 
think Halifax mis-sold PPI on this occasion.  This means Halifax dont have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so they should have told Mr S about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Halifax have paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that this is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, do not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Bank of Scotland plc do have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share they 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand they have already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman