DRN-3982104
The complaint
Mrs M complains that CB Payments Ltd (CB) wont reimburse the money shes lost to a 
scam.
Whats happened?
Mrs M has fallen victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. In 2020, she says that she:
1. transferred funds from her CB account to her Coinbase account.
2. transferred cryptocurrency from her Coinbase account to a company Ill refer to as 
(M).
Mrs M subsequently discovered that M was operating a scam and shes unhappy that 
Coinbase didnt protect her from financial harm.
Coinbase sent a final response to Mrs M in which it said that she sent cryptocurrency to an 
external blockchain address which it had no information about or relationship with, and the 
transaction is irreversible.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator explained that when a customer opens a Coinbase account, they enter into 
a contract with two firms  CB and Coinbase  as explained in the terms and conditions of 
the Coinbase account.
CB is a regulated business and one this Service can consider complaints against, but he 
didnt think CB had made any errors here.
Coinbase isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) because it only deals 
with cryptocurrency, and the transfer of cryptocurrency is not a regulated activity in the UK. 
So, he said this Service does not have the power to consider a complaint about the payment 
of cryptocurrency from Mrs Ms Coinbase account to M.
In responding, Mrs M said she is a client of CB. She does not have a Coinbase UK account 
 she resides outside of the UK in an EEA country and opened her Coinbase account in that 
country. She asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 23 January 2023. Ill set out what I said below.
I note that Mrs M has said she does not have a Coinbase UK account. But it is my 
understanding that at the relevant time, all EEA customers were customers of CB and 
Coinbase UK. The user agreement and other evidence Coinbase has provided in this case 
supports this. Although I appreciate that may not be the position now.
The rules in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP) section of the FCA handbook set 
limits on the extent of this Services jurisdiction. We are bound to follow these rules and so 
we can only look at a complaint if the rules allow it. I can only apply the rules as they exist  I 
have no discretion to change or set them aside on a case-by-case basis. When considering 
our jurisdiction, I have no power to decide whats fair or reasonable either  I only have that 
power if a complaint is in our jurisdiction.
Mrs Ms complaint needs to arise from a customer relationship with a firm regulated in the 
UK. And if that criteria is met, the complaint then also needs to be about a type of activity 
which is regulated by the FCA  or an activity that is closely connected to that. Mrs Ms 
complaint about Coinbase relates to the loss shes suffered as a result of cryptocurrency 
services.
When Mrs M opened her CB account, she entered into an agreement with CB and Coinbase 
 a separate, but closely linked company. CB is a regulated business which carries out 
regulated activities. But those activities are isolated to e-money and include the placing and 
withdrawing of cash onto an account. The activities of Coinbase arent ancillary to those of 
CB, even though the cash credited with CB may ultimately be used to trade cryptocurrency 
with Coinbase.
The relationship between the different businesses can appear confusing, but the terms and 
conditions of the relevant user agreement do set out the distinct roles of each party. They 
state:
In reviewing these terms you will see that some text is coloured in green. These clauses set 
out the details of the FCA regulated services provided to you by CB Payments, Ltd. All 
clauses not coloured in green relate to the unregulated services provided to you by 
Coinbase
Mrs M lost control of the cryptocurrency she purchased when she made the transfer from her 
Coinbase account to the wallet of the scammer. As Coinbase is not an FCA regulated 
business, I am unable to reach any conclusions about whether Coinbase should bear any 
responsibility for that.
Given the above, its important to be clear that my considerations are limited to the actions of 
CB.
Ive first considered whether there was anything about the opening of Mr Ms CB account or 
the depositing of funds that ought to have caused CB concern. Mrs M has said she provided 
CB with a valid identity document when she opened her account (a considerable time before 
the fraud occurred), and its not in dispute that the source of funds she deposited was 
legitimate.
Moving on, Mrs M, rather than CB, is responsible for payments shes made. However, in line 
with good industry practice, CB should monitor its customers accounts for activity that might 
suggest a customer is at risk of financial harm on an ongoing basis. This should include 
monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of character. In some 
circumstances, CB should take additional steps, or carry out additional checks, before 
processing a payment, or decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. But theres no obligation on CB to intervene 
with each and every payment a customer makes. So, the question is whether the activity 
which took place on Mrs Ms CB account in relation to the scam was so unusual and out of 
character that CB ought to have realised Mrs M was at risk of financial harm and intervened 
 providing a warning about scams before letting her proceed.It's important to note that, from the statements Ive seen, I cant trace the cryptocurrency Mrs 
M lost to the scam back to a corresponding euro transaction. The last euro transactions on 
Mrs Ms CB account took place a few weeks before she transferred cryptocurrency from her 
Coinbase account to the scammers wallet. The evidence doesnt suggest that the scam took 
place over such a protracted timeframe, and I think its unlikely that it did. So, Im not 
currently satisfied that there is any activity on Mrs Ms CB account relating to the scam and, 
in that case, CB could not have prevented the fraud.
In any event, the primary purpose of a CB account is to facilitate the purchase of 
cryptocurrency. Mrs M had been using her CB and Coinbase accounts for several years by 
the time the scam took place, and whilst the transactions which took place on Mrs Ms CB 
account in August 2020 did not involve insignificant sums, from looking at her statements, I 
dont think the activity wouldve appeared particularly unusual to CB or represented a 
remarkable change from how she normally operated her accounts. In the absence of any 
other cause for concern, activity of this nature is unlikely to stand out as being unusual to 
CB.
The purchase of cryptocurrency using Mrs Ms CB account was, in effect, a transfer between 
two accounts which Mrs M controlled and, therefore, much less likely to be considered a risk 
by CB.
Mrs M has said she was vulnerable at the relevant time, but I havent seen any suggestion 
that CB was aware of this or that it had any indication that she was at particular risk of harm 
from fraud. And there is no obligation for CB to find out about a customers personal 
circumstances.
Overall, even if I were to accept that there is activity on Mrs Ms CB account relating to the 
fraud, I cant see a reason why CB should have been concerned about the activity, and I 
dont think it made a mistake by allowing Mrs M to proceed without question.
Finally, there was no prospect, or practical method, of CB recovering the funds for Mrs M as 
they were sent to an anonymous blockchain address through the Coinbase platform.
I am really sorry to hear about the negative effects this scam has had on Mrs M. I have a 
great deal of sympathy for her. But, having considered this matter carefully, I am not 
persuaded that the regulated financial business here  CB  is responsible for her loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ms response to my provisional decision, and I would like to 
reassure her that, in reaching my provisional decision, I took account of the law; regulators 
rules and guidance; relevant codes of practice and guidance; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. 
Neither party has provided any new information which I havent already had the opportunity 
to consider. So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision.
It remains the case that, even if I were to accept there is activity on Mrs Ms CB account 
relating to the fraud, I cant see a reason why CB should have been concerned about the 
activity, and I dont think it made a mistake by allowing Mrs M to proceed without question.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman