DRN-4237249
The complaint
Miss B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B has home insurance underwritten by Aviva which covers buildings, contents, and 
home emergencies amongst other things.
She called Aviva in December 2022 because her heating wasnt working. Avivas agent told 
Miss Bs representative they werent going to cover the emergency because hot water 
cylinders werent covered under the policy.
The agent attempted to put Miss B through to the repairs team so that they could attend and 
quote for the necessary work, but the call dropped. It appears the same happened later 
when Miss B or her representative called back.
Miss B contacted another company, who came to carry out the necessary repairs. They 
replaced both the hot water cylinder and Miss Bs boiler.
Miss B then contacted Aviva again to report the breakdown of the boiler. Aviva sent an 
engineer, who found that the boiler had already been replaced and disposed of. 
Miss B wanted Aviva to contribute £500 to the cost of the replacement boiler, as per the 
terms of the policy. Aviva said they wouldnt make a contribution because, as the policy 
terms stated, theyd only do so if their engineer had condemned the boiler.
Miss B complained to Aviva about this. And when Aviva maintained their stance, she brought 
her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought Aviva should have sent out an engineer to look at 
the boiler when Miss Bs representative first called them. 
And, in short, they said Aviva should pay the £500 contribution for the boiler replacement 
and pay Miss B £1,000 in compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused as a 
result of Avivas error.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what Miss Bs policy says. Aviva were right to say they didnt 
cover issues with the hot water cylinder. All agree theres a £500 contribution to a 
replacement if a boiler is deemed beyond economical repair. And all agree thats dependent 
on Aviva condemning the boiler, according to the policy terms.
Theres also no dispute at all about the facts of the case. The telephone conversations 
between Miss B and/or her representative and Avivas agent are recorded. Aviva told Miss B 
the issue wasnt covered and advised her to get the repairs carried out and pay for them 
herself. And Miss B did that, using a different company to replace both the hot water cylinder 
and boiler.
This case turns entirely on exactly what happened in that first telephone conversation - 
exactly what Miss Bs representative told Avivas agent and what the agent then inferred 
from what theyd been told.
Aviva say that Miss Bs representative told them the issue was down to a leak from the hot 
water cylinder  or at least inferred that by answering Avivas agents questions in the way 
they did. 
They say they were therefore right to decide not to attend the property to inspect the boiler, 
because the issue was caused by a fault in the cylinder and the cylinder is not covered 
under the terms of the policy.
Miss Bs case is that she had an emergency. Despite telling Aviva her heating had failed, her 
cylinder was leaking and the boiler wasnt working, she was told the issue wasnt covered 
and she needed to pay for the repairs herself. So, she had the repairs carried out as soon as 
possible. 
The boiler was replaced, having been found to be faulty. The boiler should have been 
covered under the policy. Therefore, shes entitled to the £500 contribution under the policy 
terms. 
And if Aviva didnt attend to inspect and/or condemn the boiler, that was their fault, and she 
was left with no choice but to have it replaced as soon as possible by the other company.
Because its so important in this case, its worth setting out below exactly what was said in 
the initial telephone conversation between Miss Bs representative and Avivas agent. After 
the preliminary introductions, the relevant parts of the conversation went as follows:
Rep: The boiler cylinder has there's water dripping out of it and it's gone through to 
the ceiling downstairs. I've had a friend come and look at it and he says the boiler is 
completely gone, we've no hot water .......
Agent: Is it the boiler or cylinder that's leaking?
Rep: The cylinder itself.
[Theres then some discussion about containing the leak and about the cylinders 
make and model]
Agent: I'm just checking the policy terms, I don't think it's covered but let me double 
check 
[Theres then some discussion about the make, model and age of the boiler]
Agent: Yeah it isn't covered, the [cylinder] under the policy I'm afraid.
Rep: I thought we had full cover?
Agent: Under the Home Emergency we cover the boiler but not the [cylinder], there's an exclusion under the policy..
Our investigators view was that the representative (in the first sentence of the excerpt 
above) tells the agent that the cylinder is leaking and the boiler is broken down and the hot 
water (and therefore heating) is off.  
Therefore, the representative was reporting an emergency (lack of hot water and heating) 
which may have been caused  at the very least in part  by the breakdown of the boiler  
which is covered under the policy. And so, Aviva should have sent an engineer to assess the 
problem. 
And if they had done that, as they should have, they may have condemned the boiler  and 
contributed the £500 to its replacement. In fact, its likely they would have done that, 
because the engineer who eventually did the repairs replaced the boiler as well as the 
cylinder. If thats still in question, its only because Aviva erroneously chose not to attend.
Aviva questioned that view. They say the agent  after questioning the representative about 
the circumstances  swiftly and accurately identified that the problem was with the cylinder, 
which after all was leaking at the time. And correctly advised that there was no cover.
Most recently, Avivas claims agents manager put that argument in this way:
The customer mentioned the boiler for a brief moment, however [the agent] clarified 
and asked if the issue was with the boiler or the cylinder, to which he confirmed the 
issue was the cylinder. 
In my view, that is absolutely the crux of the matter. But I think Aviva have misinterpreted the 
conversation. The representative doesnt confirm that the issue is with the cylinder. Rather, 
he confirms its the cylinder that is leaking  in answer to the direct question whether its the 
boiler or cylinder thats leaking.
In essence, I think Avivas agent at the time  and Aviva now  assume that because the 
cylinder is leaking, that is the single root cause of the emergency reported by Miss B. And 
therefore, there is no cover.
I dont think that assumption is justified. The representative said in the conversation that the 
boiler wasnt working. The engineer who eventually dealt with the problem replaced the 
boiler  which also suggests it wasnt working. 
It is entirely possible then  if not most likely in fact  that the boiler was broken down when 
the call was made. And the only reason we cant say that with any certainty now is because 
Aviva didnt go out and inspect the boiler when Miss B made the call.
In summary, I agree with our investigators view. Faced with an emergency call from a 
member of the public, with no expert knowledge of boilers, cylinders or heating systems, 
Avivas agent made an assumption about the cause of the emergency. 
That wasnt a far-fetched or ridiculous assumption, but it did ignore what Miss Bs 
representative was clearly saying  that the boiler had broken down in addition to the 
cylinder leaking.
Instead of making that assumption, Im satisfied Aviva should have arranged for an engineer 
to attend to inspect the boiler and the heating system. If they had, there would be no dispute 
now about whether the issue was caused by the cylinder, the boiler, or both.Putting things right
Miss B - who Aviva knew to suffer from a health condition exacerbated by cold and stress  
was left without heating in her house for around two weeks in the middle of winter.
That was partly due to Avivas error with the initial call. It was also partly due to Aviva failing 
to put Miss B in touch with their repairs team  after the initial call and then subsequently 
when Miss B tried to contact them. 
Im satisfied its most likely the issue would have been resolved significantly sooner had 
Aviva attended on the day Miss B made the initial call reporting the emergency. And Miss B 
would not then have spent two weeks without heating. 
Its more likely than not, on the basis of the evidence we have, that Aviva  had they 
attended  would have been obliged to either provide alternative accommodation for Miss B 
from the outset, or at the very least provide her with an alternative means to heat her home 
temporarily.
Miss B also experienced poor customer service when she later contacted Aviva. The 
telephone calls she made werent handled entirely professionally and sensitively by Avivas 
agents.
Given the trouble and upset Miss B was caused by Avivas errors, and the fact this was 
exacerbated by the health condition Aviva knew about, Im satisfied that £1,000 in 
compensation for her trouble and upset is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, it also appears most likely to me that the boiler was 
broken down beyond economic repair and would have been covered under the policy. In 
which case, Aviva should also pay Miss B the £500 contribution set out in their policy terms 
for a replacement boiler. 
I know there is an exclusion or condition in the policy which says the £500 is payable only if 
Avivas engineer condemns the boiler. But in this case, Avivas error in not attending when 
the emergency was reported led directly to Miss B having to replace the boiler before theyd 
had the chance to inspect (and/or condemn) it. 
In those circumstances, whatever the policy terms say, it would be entirely unfair to Miss B 
for Aviva not to pay the £500 contribution to the replacement boiler.
I understand Miss B paid for her new boiler using interest free credit. In which case, 
obviously, I wont be asking Aviva to cover any interest charges. 
Our investigator said Aviva should pay any charges Miss B incurs for paying back the money 
early. I dont think there will be any such charges, given that theres no interest. If by any 
chance there are, Miss B can simply bank the £500 and use it when required and will be no 
worse off as a result.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Miss B £500 as a contribution to the replacement of her 
boiler and pay her a further £1,000 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman