DRN-2513838
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money rejected his section 75 
claim.
What happened
In October 2015 Mr H purchased items including a new patio door, gutters and soffits. The 
total cost was £3,300. Mr H made two payments of £2700 and £300 with his Virgin Money 
credit card and paid the balance in cash.
Mr H says he entered into the contract on the understanding that the goods and installation 
were guaranteed for 10 years via an insurance backed guarantee.
In 2019 Mr H tried to contact the supplier because some remedial works were required., he 
discovered that the supplier had ceased trading. Mr H contacted the insurer of the 
guarantee, who sent him details of the policy.
On receiving the policy, Mr H discovered that the guarantee wasnt as extensive as he 
thought, because not all items were covered for 10 years and an excess applied to any 
claims.
Mr H raised a claim under section 75 with Virgin Money. He said the insurance backed 
guarantee had been misrepresented to him.
Virgin declined the claim. It said there wasnt enough evidence to show that the guarantee 
had been misrepresented.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there had been a misrepresentation and that on the available evidence, Virgin had dealt 
with the section 75 claim fairly.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed asked the salesman to write down what had been discussed 
on the order form and the order form clearly stated a 10-year guarantee. He said no 
exclusions or excesses were discussed with the salesman or written down on the order form.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Hs complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that Virgins 
response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
In this case, Mr H says that the guarantee was misrepresented to him because not all items 
were covered for 10 years and there was an excess on the policy which he wasnt made 
aware of.
In order to find that there has been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the 
supplier made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr H to enter into the agreement.
There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr H and the supplier. The supplier has 
ceased trading, so it hasnt been possible to obtain a statement from the salesman. Because 
I wasnt present when Mr H discussed things with the salesman, I cant be certain of what 
was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the documents which came into 
existence at the time and take into account the wider circumstances of the case in order to 
decide whats most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the order form. I can see that someone has written 10 years insurance 
backed guarantee on it. Mr H has said that this is evidence that all parts of the installation 
were covered by the 10-year guarantee, with no exclusions or excesses.
The difficulty I see here is that whats written on the order form isnt untrue. I can see from 
the guarantee that some parts of the installation are covered for 10 years. On any analysis, 
the writing (or the statement) cant be said to be untrue, and therefore isnt a 
misrepresentation. 
Thats not to say I dont appreciate the point Mr H makes here. I understand that Mr H feels 
that any exclusions or excess would have been noted on the order form if theyd been 
discussed. However, I dont agree. I dont think its reasonable to expect the full terms of a 
guarantee to be written on an order form. Its more usual to see a summary of the product, 
which is what I can see here. Id only expect to see the full terms and conditions of any 
guarantee in the guarantee document itself.
If the guarantee was very important to Mr H, as he says it was, I would have expected him to 
ask for a copy of it and read it to make sure he was happy with it before proceeding with the 
order. I cant see that he did this. So, even if there had been an untrue statement of fact 
made about the guarantee, I cant see that the requirements for misrepresentation are met, 
because I havent seen evidence to suggest that the guarantee was the main reason for Mr 
H entering into the agreement. 
Based on everything Ive seen, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think theres 
enough evidence to say that theres been a misrepresentation. I think Virgin handled the 
claim fairly in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman