DRN-2897445
The complaint
Mr P complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Financial 
Services, closed his account without telling him when it was in credit. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed the account information provided by Argos and I can see that the account was 
£6.01 in credit in May 2019.
Mr P didnt spend anything on the account after that.
The terms and conditions of his account with Argos said that if he didnt use the account the 
business may end the agreement and close it by giving two months notice.
Ive seen a letter from Argos to Mr P that Argos say was sent in February 2020. That letter 
said:
We still have £6.01 of your money and need to repay it to you. 
And it went on to explain 
As you havent used your card for over 6 months and your account remains in credit, we 
have taken the decision to give you notice of the closure of your account. 
It said that if there was no action on the account for two months the account would be closed 
and as that remained the case the account was closed on 21 May 2020.
This letter was sent to the address we have on file for Mr P and, whilst I understand Mr P 
says he didnt receive it, I am persuaded that it was probably sent as Ive not been provided 
with evidence there were any mail delivery problems at that time.
So, I think the terms and conditions of the account allowed Argos to close it and that they 
provided the appropriate notice to say thats what they were doing.
Argos have explained that the £6.01 is still available for Mr P and that hell need to contact 
them so they can arrange payment.
I dont think theres evidence that Argos have done anything wrong here and Im not 
therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman