DRN-1628150
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Zenith Insurance plc dealt with his commercial vehicle 
insurance claim. 
What happened
In August 2018 Zenith were contacted by a third-party insurer who said Mr T hit a parked car 
which was insured by them. Zenith spoke with Mr T about this, he said he hadnt hit the third 
partys car, he said there was no damage to his car and in any event the third party was 
parked illegally. Zenith tried to defend the claim from the third-party insurer but was then 
provided with dash cam footage which showed Mr Ts van knocking into the third-partys car 
when he was parking. Because of this Zenith settled the claim as being Mr Ts fault. Mr T 
didnt think this was fair and complained. 
Zenith reviewed his claim and partly upheld it. They said while the third-party was parked 
illegally, Mr T had still hit the third-partys car. Zenith said because of this they didnt think 
they had a reasonable prospect of defending the claim if it went to court. But Zenith did 
acknowledge there had been delays in handling his claim and offered £100 compensation. 
Mr T didnt think this was right and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend Zenith do anything 
differently. She found that Zenith had looked to try and defend the claim but didnt think they 
could. Mr T didnt think this was fair as the third-party was parked illegally.
As Mr T didnt agree the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has raised a complaint about two different claims, in this decision Im only considering 
the incident which happened in August 2018. 
We dont decide whos at fault for an accident as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look 
to see that the insurer has made a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy give Zenith the right to 
take over, defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. This might mean Zenith makes a decision  
Mr T disagrees with, but the policy allows it. Ive considered whether Zenith have done so 
fairly and reasonably. 
Zenith investigated the claim on Mr Ts policy by getting his version of events. It also 
reviewed the third-partys claim and inspected Mr Ts van. When Zenith tried to defend the 
claim, they were provided with dash cam footage which showed Mr T hitting the third-partys 
car. Because of this Zenith doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of defending the 
claim in court, even though the third-party was parked illegally. So, Zenith settled the third-
partys claim. Im satisfied this shows Zenith have dealt with the claim in a fair and 
reasonable way. I say this because theyve listened to Mr Ts version of events and gone to 
try and defend the claim but then changed their position when theyve seen video footage of 
the incident. 
Ive also looked at the delay in handling Mr Ts claim. I can see when Zenith were sent the 
dash cam footage, they didnt do anything with it for a couple of months. This unnecessarily 
delayed Mr Ts claim and delayed letting him know Zenith would be settling it. Zenith offered 
to pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this fair 
compensation for this delay and not keeping Mr T updated. Im therefore not going to ask 
Zenith to do anything differently. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that £100 is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman