DRN-2653977
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt give them 
enough information about the impact of taking a payment holiday. They are also unhappy 
with how their application for a term extension was handled.
 
What happened
On 10 March 2020, Mr B contacted NatWest to enquire about taking a payment holiday on 
their mortgage. This was because of the uncertainty they had about their ability to pay the 
mortgage during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
During the call Mr B explained most of his business was based with clients in the EU and he 
couldnt currently travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He explained his income had been 
impacted and he may struggle to make the mortgage payments  and a three-month 
payment holiday would allow him to explore the UK market. 
NatWest offered Mr and Mrs B a payment holiday for three months to help with the situation 
they found themselves in. Mr B didnt accept the payment holiday straight away as he 
wanted to think about his options first.
On 28 March 2020, a payment holiday was set up for Mr and Mrs B to cover the months of 
April, May and June 2020. The payment holiday ended on 10 June 2020 and NatWest sent a 
letter on 12 June 2020 confirming Mr and Mrs Bs new higher monthly payment and 
providing other options which could be considered if the new monthly payment was 
unaffordable. 
On 19 June 2020, Mr B contacted NatWest as his payment holiday had ended. He explained 
he could now start making the monthly payments but wanted to extend the term to ensure 
they remain manageable. During the application for a term extension Mr B raised a 
complaint as he was unhappy with the service he was provided. He says the mortgage 
advisor repeatedly asked for the same information and was unhappy with the length of time 
it was taking to progress his application. He also questioned why he wasnt offered a term 
extension when he first contacted NatWest about the payment holiday in March 2020. 
Mr and Mrs Bs application was assigned to another mortgage advisor on 24 June 2020. Due 
to concerns about the time it was taking to complete the application, Mr B changed the 
payment date for his mortgage from the 10th to the 25th of each month. The term extension 
application was accepted on 2 July 2020. 
Unhappy, Mr B raised a complaint. He was unhappy about the options given to him at the 
time he requested the payment holiday in March 2020. He said it wasnt made clear to him 
that there could be an adverse impact on future borrowing, and he wanted to be 
compensated for the financial losses suffered because of this. 
NatWest agreed that Mr and Mrs Bs term extension application wasnt handled as well as it 
could have been. It refunded the £35 term amendment fee and paid £75 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. NatWest said it wasnt aware in March 2020 of the potential 
impact a payment holiday could have on future borrowing, but as soon as it was made aware 
it updated the information on its website 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think NatWest had acted fairly. They 
explained they thought NatWest had agreed to Mr and Mrs Bs request for a payment 
holiday in line with the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and didnt 
think NatWest had intentionally impacted Mr and Mrs Bs potential future borrowing. But they 
did feel that NatWest should increase its offer of compensation to £200 for the trouble and 
upset caused during the application for a term extension. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They said NatWest had a 
duty to question the instructions given by the FCA on payment holidays, and because it 
didnt, they would now be adversely impacted with regards to any future borrowing. They 
said a payment holiday wasnt the most suitable option for them and a term extension should 
have been offered  Mr and Mrs B say they were both on 100% salary throughout the 
pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the FCA published specific guidance for lenders with 
regards to mortgages. The guidance was aimed to help mortgage customers whose financial 
circumstances had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidance said lenders 
should offer a payment holiday to borrowers where appropriate and provide adequate 
information to borrowers to ensure they understand the implications of the payment holiday. 
Ive listened to the initial call Mr B had with NatWest on 10 March 2020. During this call he 
explains most of his business is based with clients in the EU and that he doesnt expect any 
income coming in any time soon. Unfortunately, NatWest are unable to locate the second 
call Mr B had on 10 March 2020 where the payment holiday was offered. Ive seen a copy of 
the system notes for this call, which again confirm that Mr B explained his work had been 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and he may struggle with the mortgage payments. 
Based on the first phone call and the system notes NatWest have provided, Im satisfied that 
at the time Mr B called to enquire about a payment holiday he confirmed to NatWest his 
income had been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and he may struggle to make the 
mortgage payments. 
I understand that Mr B has since said he and his wife were on 100% salary during the 
pandemic and that a term extension may have been a more appropriate option in the 
circumstances. However, I dont think it was inappropriate for NatWest to have offered 
Mr and Mrs B a payment holiday in line with the guidance published by the FCA. The 
guidance at the time said NatWest should offer a payment holiday to any customer 
experiencing payment difficulties (without the need to make detailed enquiries into their 
circumstances or assess affordability) because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs B had 
indicated they were experiencing difficulties and NatWest could only act off the information it 
was provided with at the time of the request. 
Mr B says that NatWest didnt make him aware of the implications a payment holiday could 
have on future borrowing. NatWest has said at the time Mr and Mrs B applied for the 
payment holiday in March 2020 it wasnt aware of any potential impact, but as soon as it was 
made aware, it updated its website to warn of the potential impact. The guidance around payment holidays from the FCA was put into place quickly, at a time of 
great uncertainty. The aim was to help consumers who were in difficulty  which 
Mr and Mrs B had indicated they were. But the speed at which this guidance was introduced, 
and the ongoing uncertainty, meant there were changes to the information surrounding the 
payment holiday. So, I dont think what NatWest has said about not necessarily being aware 
of the longer term implications of the scheme is unreasonable.
I appreciate the impact to future borrowing may not have been specifically discussed with 
Mr B, but I dont think this means that NatWest have done anything wrong in this instance. I 
say this because Mr B had explained his financial circumstances had been impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic, and NatWest agreed to a payment holiday, in line with the guidance at 
the time, to provide Mr and Mrs B with immediate assistance. The alternative would have 
been to potentially let Mr and Mrs B not meet their monthly payments and have adverse 
information recorded on their credit file. 
Ive also been provided with a copy of the confirmation sent to Mr and Mrs B once the 
payment holiday had been agreed. I think it should be noted that this confirmation outlines 
the potential impacts a payment holiday may have, and one such impact is that whilst a 
payment holiday wont have a negative impact towards a customers credit rating, lenders 
may take into account other information when making future lending decisions. I think this 
made Mr and Mrs B sufficiently aware of the potential impact to any future lending  before 
the payment holiday started in April 2020. With this in mind, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B 
would have done anything differently if they had known about any potential impact to future 
lending decisions. Its clear that they had concerns about their ability to pay the mortgage 
when they contacted NatWest, and having received the letter confirming the payment 
holiday and the potential for impact to future borrowing, they decided to continue with the 
payment holiday. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B have said that since having the payment holiday they have 
seen an increase in interest rates for personal loans and credit cards  and have had new 
overdraft and credit card offers withdrawn. Lenders take into account various different 
aspects when deciding whether to lend to a customer  not just whether someone has had a 
payment holiday. It should be noted that the FCA guidance said there should be no negative 
impact to a customers credit file because of the payment holiday, and Ive seen no evidence 
to suggest that Mr and Mrs Bs credit file has been impacted. 
NatWest agrees that the service Mr and Mrs B received when completing the term extension 
application wasnt to its usual standard. It had initially charged Mr and Mrs B a £35 term 
amendment fee, which it later refunded as it agreed this shouldnt have been charged  I 
think this is fair in the circumstances as they have no longer incurred this charge. 
It also paid Mr and Mrs B £75 compensation for the inconvenience it caused during the 
application. Our Investigator didnt think this fairly represented the distress and 
inconvenience caused and recommended NatWest pay a further £125 compensation 
bringing the total amount to £200. So, Ive thought about whether this is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs Bs application to extend their mortgage term following the 
payment holiday didnt proceed as planned. They were initially charged a term amendment 
fee they shouldnt have been, and Mr B had to raise his concerns several times in order to 
have his application progressed and finalised before his monthly payment was due in 
July 2020. Mr and Mrs B lost confidence in the initial mortgage advisor as he repeatedly 
requested the same information  which NatWest later confirmed was unnecessary  and 
delayed the application. Mr B also felt the need to change his mortgage payment date as he 
had concerns about the application completing in time. NatWest also felt the need to assign a new mortgage advisor to Mr and Mrs Bs application, which I think supports the claim of 
poor service Mr and Mrs B said they received. 
Taking into consideration the steps Mr and Mrs B had to take in order to have their 
application progressed, and the unnecessary delays they experienced, I think this would 
have caused them distress and inconvenience. The information provided shows that there 
were several issues with the application process, and each would have added to the poor 
service they experienced. With this in mind, I think the investigators recommendation to 
award a further £125 compensation, bringing the total amount to £200, is fair in the 
circumstances. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B have also raised concerns about how long it took them to 
receive the end of payment holiday letter. The payment holiday ended on the 10 June 2020 
and NatWest issued this letter on 12 June 2020 by second class post. I dont think there 
were any unnecessary delays in processing this letter, and its not the roll of this service to 
instruct a business on how it issues letters to its customers. 
The guidance from the FCA said NatWest needed to take reasonable steps to contact its 
customers in good time before the end of the agreed payment deferral period about 
resuming payments, and to engage with them about their options. I think NatWest did this by 
sending Mr and Mrs B the end of payment holiday letter when it did, which outlined what 
other options could be available to them to repay the missed payment holiday payments.  
My final decision
My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc pay Mr and Mrs B a further £125 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman