DRN-3213872
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about Avivas handling of a claim under their home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S have a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. In February 2020, they 
made a claim following an escape of water from the tank in their loft. This brought down the 
ceiling in the room below.
Mr S and Mrs S live in a rented property. The landlord dealt with damage to the building. But 
Mr S and Mrs S made a claim to Aviva to cover damage to their contents. Aviva accepted 
the claim. And they appointed a contractor to remove and restore Mr S and Mrs S 
belongings.
Mr S and Mrs S were concerned that when their ceiling collapsed, it brought down what 
appeared to be fibre glass insulation from the space above the ceiling. And when their 
belongings were returned by Avivas contractor, Mr S and Mrs S said they hadnt been 
properly cleaned of contamination from the fibre glass.
Mr S said his clothing caused irritation and itching when he put it on. And he said other 
belongings appeared to have small fibres or particles on their surface. Mr S and Mrs S asked 
Aviva to take back their possessions and ensure they were properly cleaned and/or de-
contaminated.
Aviva asked their contractors to carry out further investigations. The contractors did so but 
reported that they werent experts in identifying contamination from fibre glass. So, Aviva 
asked Mr S and Mrs S to commission their own expert to establish whether there was 
contamination from the fibre glass. And they said they wouldnt do anything more until they 
had that expert opinion.
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with this and made a complaint to Aviva. They were also 
concerned that they hadnt been provided with an inventory of their possessions taken by the 
contractor. They said they suspected that some items hadnt been returned.
Aviva offered Mr S and Mrs S £50 compensation for some confusion in the way the claim 
had been handled, but they maintained their position on the fibre glass contamination and 
they didnt provide the inventory Mr S and Mrs S were seeking. 
So, Mr S and Mrs S brought their complaint to us. They also refused the £50 compensation 
Aviva had offered. Our investigator looked into and didnt think Aviva had acted fairly in the 
way theyd handled the claim. 
She thought Aviva should commission an expert to determine whether Mr S and Mrs Ss 
possession were contaminated with fibre glass. She also thought Aviva should provide the 
inventory Mr S and Mrs S had requested. And she thought Aviva should pay Mr S and Mrs S 
£400 in compensation for the delays and inconvenience Mr S and Mrs S had experienced.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They think its for Mr S 
and Mrs S to prove that they have a problem with fibre glass contamination. 
Mr S and Mrs S also disagreed with our investigators view. They think she failed to take into 
account contamination with fibre glass particles remaining in the loft. And they say the 
trouble and upset theyve suffered is greater than our investigator believed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, it may be worth clarifying what the claim to Aviva covers. The property is rented. 
Maintenance and repairs to the property  the building itself  are the responsibility of the 
landlord (and possibly the landlords insurer, if they are insured). Mr S and Mrs Ss claim to 
Aviva relates only to the contents within the property  their possessions.
I say this because one of Mr S and Mrs Ss reasons for disagreeing with our investigator was 
that they thought she hadnt taken into account the fact (they believe) that their loft itself is 
still contaminated with fibre glass particles. 
To be clear, if there are possessions in the loft that prove to be contaminated, then Aviva will 
need to consider that as part of any claim. But contamination of the structure of the loft  the 
floor, beams, the underside of the roof itself etc.  will be a matter for the landlord to deal 
with, not Aviva.
Turning to the substantive issues in this case, Ill deal with the major one first  the question 
of whether Mr S and Mrs Ss possessions are in fact contaminated with fibre glass particles.
It appears not be in dispute here that the escape of water and the collapse of the ceiling did 
in fact seriously disturb some insulation in the loft - which appears to be fibre glass. Theres 
no dispute either that Mr S and Mrs Ss possessions were in the property at the time. 
Mr S has reported that the clothes which were taken away by the contractor handling his and 
Mrs Ss possessions are now causing irritation and itching. And theres no dispute here that 
that is exactly what would happen if there was contamination with fibre glass particles. 
Mr S has also provided numerous photographs which appear to show some sort of fibres 
amongst his possessions. Its beyond my expertise to say whether these are likely to be fibre 
glass or not.
To be clear, and as Avivas own claim notes say, if Mr S and Mrs Ss possession are in fact 
contaminated with fibre glass, the policy terms mean that Aviva would have to put that right  
most likely through some sort of specialist cleaning (or replacement if that proves 
impossible). If the possessions are not contaminated with fibre glass, then there would 
appear to be nothing more for Aviva to do. 
At present, no-one knows for sure whether there is fibre glass contamination or not. The key 
dispute is about who should commission (and pay for) an expert, in order to find out.
Aviva have said they disagreed with our investigators view because they think its for Mr S 
and Mrs S to establish their loss. And I accept that there is a fundamental principle in 
insurance that it is for the policyholder to show that theyve suffered loss or damage caused 
by an insured event.But in this case, Im satisfied Mr S and Mrs S have done that. Those no dispute that the 
insured event occurred - or that it caused damage to Mr S and Mrs Ss possessions which is 
covered under their policy. After all, Aviva have accepted the claim and agreed to restore 
Mr S and Mrs Ss possessions.
I dont think its fair for Aviva to expect Mr S and Mrs S then to forensically assess and 
establish the degree and nature of their loss or damage  or to determine how to respond to 
it. That kind of thing would normally be for a loss adjustor appointed by the insurer to do.
I can see from the information we have on file  provided by Aviva  that was exactly how 
they responded when Mr S and Mrs S first raised the potential problem with fibre glass 
contamination. They asked their contractor to go back and inspect the possessions to see if 
there was a remaining issue. 
The contractor carried out a further visit to Mr S and Mrs Ss home. But their report made it 
very clear to Aviva that they werent experts on fibre glass and couldnt offer a reliable view 
on whether the possessions were contaminated or not.
Taking all of that into account, I agree with our investigator that Aviva should now arrange for 
a properly qualified expert to carry out an assessment to determine whether Mr S and 
Mrs Ss possessions are in fact contaminated with fibre glass particles.
If they are, Aviva will then need to re-consider the claim and determine what theyll need to 
do to meet their obligations under the policy.
I also agree with our investigator that Aviva should provide Mr S and Mrs S with a list of the 
items taken by their contractor for restoration. Its not unreasonable for Mr S and Mrs S to 
ask for that, especially since the contractors appeared to try to return some items to Mr S 
and Mrs S which didnt in fact belong to them. 
If there are items in the list which are missing after the possessions were returned to Mr S 
and Mrs S, Id expect Aviva to either find and return them or compensate Mrs S and Mrs S 
accordingly. 
If the contractor cant find the list  or didnt make one  Id expect Aviva, within reason, to 
consider compensating Mr S and Mrs S for any items they say are missing, assuming they 
can prove ownership prior to the insured event.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, to put things right for Mr S and Mrs S, Aviva will need to arrange and pay 
for an expert inspection and report, to establish whether Mr S and Mrs Ss possessions are 
in fact contaminated with fibre glass. And if they are, theyll need to do whats necessary to 
restore or replace the contaminated items.
Theyll also need to provide an inventory of items taken from Mrs S and Mrs Ss home by 
their contractor. If any items are then shown to be missing, theyll need to find and return or 
replace them (or pay for their replacement by Mr S and Mrs S). If they cant produce a list, 
theyll need to consider compensating Mr S and Mrs S for any items they say are missing (as 
I set out above).
Finally, I also agree with our investigator that Aviva should pay £400 in compensation to 
Mr S and Mrs S for their trouble and upset. I think it was Avivas error to refuse to arrange an 
expert inspection of Mr S and Mrs Ss possessions. If they had instead agreed to do that when it was requested  or at the latest when their 
contractors said they couldnt determine whether there was fibre glass contamination  Mr S 
and Mrs S would have been saved what now amounts to 16 months or so of delay, 
inconvenience and worry about when and how their claim was going to be properly settled.
In my view, £400 compensation is fair, reasonable and appropriate given the level of trouble 
and upset Mr S and Mrs S have experienced over that period of time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
arrange and pay for an expert inspection and report to determine whether Mr S and 
Mrs Ss possessions are contaminated with fibre glass;
if there is fibre glass contamination, deal with that in line with the terms of Mrs S and 
Mrs Ss policy;
provide Mr S and Mrs S with an inventory of their possessions which were taken by 
Avivas contractor;
find, replace or pay for any missing items; and
pay Mr S and Mrs S £400 compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman