DRN-2750409
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the refurbished handset Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) provided 
under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a mobile phone breakdown and accidental damage insurance policy with GLI 
when he bought a new iPhone in 2017. In December 2019 he claimed under the policy 
because his phone had developed a fault. Mr S paid the policy excess and GLI sent him a 
refurbished handset after explaining that the original handset couldnt be repaired.
Around seven months later, Mr Ss refurbished handset developed faults. He claimed under 
the policy again and paid the excess. GLI advised him to take it to an Apple store for 
diagnostics after which it would reimburse the cost of repair. Apple refused because the 
phone contained non-Apple parts and originated from another country.
Mr S complained to GLI. It apologised for advising him to go to Apple and offered to repair 
the phone under the terms of the policy. Mr S remained unhappy because he didnt want GLI 
to repair his phone using non-Apple parts and he thought its value had dropped because of 
GLIs actions. Mr S said he wouldnt have taken out the policy if hed known that GLI could 
use compatible rather than genuine parts.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought GLI had replaced the phone in line 
with the terms of the policy and, as it had offered a further repair, she didnt think there was 
anything more it needed to do.
Mr S disagreed. He didnt think being left with a broken phone was a fair outcome and, 
although hed accept a further repair, hed only do so if GLI guaranteed it would use genuine 
Apple parts. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr S will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
The issue is that Mr S doesnt think it was reasonable for GLI to provide a refurbished phone 
containing non-Apple parts. He is reluctant to send his phone for repair unless GLI 
guarantees it will only use genuine parts.
The policy states:
Replacement Equipment
If [GLI] determines that your mobile phone needs to be replaced following a valid claim:
1. [GLI] will endeavour to replace your mobile phone with an identical, fully refurbished (or 
new where a refurbished item is not available) mobile phone of the same age and 
condition as your mobile phone. However, in the unlikely event this is not possible, [GLI] 
will provide you with a fully refurbished (or new where a refurbished item is not available) 
mobile phone of a comparable specification or the equivalent value taking into 
consideration the age and condition of your mobile phone prior to your claim.
2. Any mobile phone replaced by [GLI] will be guaranteed for 3 months.
3. Accessories which are not compatible with your replacement mobile phone will be 
replaced by [GLI] up to a value of £150.
Having considered the terms of the policy, I cant see anything which would lead me to think 
GLI guaranteed to provide an exact replacement phone. And the policy is clear that any 
replacement phone will be comparable. 
When Mr S received the refurbished phone, he wasnt aware that it had compatible rather 
than genuine Apple parts. So, Im satisfied that GLI mustve provided a handset which, to all 
intents, replaced his original phone with a comparable one. That is, it provided a 
replacement handset in line with the terms of the policy. I dont think GLI did anything wrong 
here.
When Mr S made a second claim, GLI directed him to an Apple store for repair. Ordinarily, 
GLI would reimburse any repair costs incurred, but as Apple wouldnt repair the refurbished 
phone, Mr S had a wasted trip. I think GLI made a mistake here, which it has acknowledged. 
But I dont think the inconvenience in the overall circumstances warrants compensation. 
Mr S paid the second excess, which GLI still has, but the phone is still faulty. Mr S only 
wants the repair GLI offered if it guarantees it will use genuine Apple parts.
The policy says: 
Equipment Repairs
If [GLI] determines that your mobile phone can be repaired following a valid claim:
1. You will be asked to send your mobile phone to [GLI] or to our authorised repairer.
You will be responsible for the cost of postage. To avoid any further damage being 
caused to your mobile phone, we recommend that you use a padded envelope and send 
your mobile phone by registered mail. There is no cover provided by this policy in respect 
of loss, damage or theft for mobile phones which are not mailed in this way.
2. [GLI] will arrange for the repair of your mobile phone and return it to you by courier to 
your last known address or the address specified on your claim submission.
3. All repairs that are carried out to your mobile phone will be guaranteed for 3 months.
Nowhere in the policy does GLI guarantee to repair using genuine parts, so I cant fairly ask 
it to provide a service with requirements additional to the one Mr S paid for. If Mr S sends his 
phone for repair, under the terms of the policy GLI will return to him a working phone. That 
will put him back in the position he was in before his phone broke. While I understand what 
he says about the phones value, the policy is there to ensure he has at least a comparable 
working phone. I havent seen anything in the policy which suggests it will guarantee the 
phones residual value.
If Mr S chooses not to have his phone repaired, GLI will return his excess payment to him.
Finally, Mr S said he wouldnt have bought the policy if hed known about the replacement 
phone terms. GLI provided the policy terms and conditions for him to read and if Mr S was 
unsure about the cover, he couldve made alternative arrangements. Throughout the policy, GLI refers to comparable phones, and, while it might not state specifically that compatible 
parts may be used, nor does it say that genuine Apple parts will be used.
Overall, Im satisfied that GLI has handled Mr Ss claim in line with the terms of the policy 
and I see no reason to require it to provide compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman