DRN-4470451
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the service she received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(DG) under a protection policy for her dishwasher.
References to DG include their agents who administer and carry out services under policies.
Mrs B was supported by a representative in making her complaint to this Service. 
References to Mrs B include her representative.
This decision covers Mrs Bs complaint against DG as the insurer of her protection policy. It 
doesnt cover the manufacturer, a separate business, other than as context.
What happened
Mrs B had a protection policy with DG covering breakdown and repairs to her dishwasher. In 
December 2021 her dishwasher developed a fault. An engineer inspected the machine and 
concluded it was unrepairable. So, Mrs B was offered a replacement under her policy. She 
chose a replacement (of a different make to her faulty machine) from a list provided by DG.
However, after the replacement was delivered and Mrs B began to use it, she found it didnt 
wash items properly and she thought it poorly designed (she couldnt fit in dinner plates 
without them fouling the rotator arm). She raised her concerns with DG and the 
manufacturer in February/March 2022, asking for a replacement machine of a different 
make. But she said she didnt receive a response.
She contacted the manufacturer again in March 2023, saying the dishes were warm at the 
end of a washing cycle and steam present. She didnt there was a problem with the 
machines functioning, rather she thought it badly designed and not fit for purpose. The 
manufacturer offered to send out an engineer to inspect the machine, but Mrs B said she 
didnt want an engineer visit, she wanted a replacement machine or compensation to enable 
her to but a replacement machine. 
Unhappy at what had happened, Mrs B complained to DG. She was very disappointed with 
the replacement machine and wanted DG to replace it with a similar model from the same 
manufacturer as her original dishwasher. Shed chosen the replacement dishwasher from 
the list of models available that didnt involve having to pay an additional fee. Shed had to 
hand wash two plates that wouldnt fit in the machine, as well as other items the machine 
hadnt properly washed in the machine. 
DG didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response they said the replacement dishwasher 
was still under the manufacturers warranty, so if there were any mechanical faults with the 
machine, they would be covered by the manufacturer  DG would only cover the machine for 
accidental damage. As no faults had been found with the machine, then neither DG nor the 
manufacturer could do anything further. 
Mrs B then complained to this service, unhappy with the replacement washing machine 
which she said wasnt fit for purpose, meaning she had to wash items in the dishwasher by 
hand. It had been 15 months since the washing machine was replaced and she didnt think 
the service shed received from DG was up to standard. She wanted DG to apologise, 
replace the machine and pay her £2,250 compensation for what had happened, the 
inconvenience and having to wash dishes by hand (£750 for her time and administration 
costs over the period; £750 for her time having to wash dishes by hand after theyd been 
washed in the machine; and £750 for wasted energy costs, dishwasher tablets and washing 
up liquid).
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She didnt think DG should replace the 
dishwasher, as there was no fault with the replacement machine or accidental damage 
(which the policy would cover). And the policy excluded incidental costs from cover, so DG 
didnt need to make any payment to Mrs B in this respect. But the investigator concluded 
Mrs B had raised her dissatisfaction with the replacement dishwasher several times, but this 
hadnt been addressed by DG. So, the investigator thought DG should pay £100 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused Mrs B.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether DG have acted fairly towards Mrs B. 
The key issue in Mrs Bs complaint is she doesnt think the replacement machine is fit for 
purpose as she doesnt think it properly washes dishes, so she then has to wash them by 
hand. Shes also unhappy that the concerns she raised in 2022 werent addressed by DG, 
until she contacted them (and the manufacturer) again in 2023.
On the first issue, Ive considered what both Mrs B and DG have told us about the 
replacement machine. Mrs B has said, in her complaint and correspondence with DG, that 
there isnt a mechanical fault with the replacement machine. Rather she doesnt think its fit 
for purpose and the issues are with the design of the machine (such as the racks).
While Mrs B has said this, Ive noted the manufacturer have offered to send an engineer to 
inspect the machine, to confirm whether there may be a mechanical fault. If there were, this 
would fall under the manufacturers warranty. While my decision covers how DG have acted 
towards Mrs B, I think this is a reasonable offer, as the intention is to determine whether 
there is a mechanical (or other) fault with the machine.
DGs protection policy covers breakdown (after the manufacturers guarantee) which the 
policy defines as:
If your appliance suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the 
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, we will (at our option) authorise a 
repair, arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement appliance.
The policy defines accidental damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee) as:
Both during and after the end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee 
period, if your appliance suffers accidental damage (so that the appliance is no 
longer in good working order), we will (at our option) authorise a repair, arrange a 
replacement or pay the cost of a replacement appliance.Given the circumstances of the case, Ive seen nothing to indicate the dishwasher suffered 
accidental damage. And while Mrs B says there wasnt a mechanical fault with the machine, 
if there were a fault due to mechanical or electrical issue, the policy would only cover this if it 
was after the end of the manufacturers guarantee. Given this, the policy doesnt cover the 
circumstances set out above. 
So, Ive concluded it wouldnt be reasonable for DG to replace the machine.
On the point about compensation for the factors Mrs B sets out in her complaint to this 
Service, I dont think it would be reasonable for two reasons. First, my conclusion the policy 
wouldnt cover the circumstances set out above. But  second, the policy contains an 
exclusion I think relevant:
costs or loss arising from not being able to use your applianceor incidental 
costs caused by breakdown or repair.
While Mrs B can use her appliance, the exclusion is designed to exclude indirect costs 
associated with the appliance. While it doesnt explicitly refer to costs (direct or indirect) 
arising from a replacement product, as the replacement was a result of the breakdown of 
Mrs Bs old dishwasher, I think it reasonable to interpret the condition to include costs of 
using a new product.
In this case, these would reasonably include the indirect costs Mrs B refers to in respect of 
her time washing dishes manually and the costs of detergent and other consumables 
associated with use of the machine and having to wash dishes manually. But in any event, 
these consumables would be needed to wash dishes  either in the machine or manually. 
So, it wouldnt be reasonable to ask DG to pay for them.
Turning to the second issue, that the concerns she raised in 2022 werent addressed by DG, 
until she contacted them again in 2023, Ive considered the information and evidence 
available. In their response to this Services request for information, DG acknowledge Mrs B 
raised concerns about the replacement dishwasher in 2022, but they didnt address the 
concerns. Nor were they covered in their final response. DG accept this was a shortfall in the 
service provided to Mrs B. Though they dont believe, had they addressed them earlier, they 
would have reached a different conclusion on whether to replace the machine.
I agree DG havent met the standard of service Mrs B should have expected, so Ive 
concluded they havent acted fairly towards her.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive thought about the issue of compensation. Considering 
my conclusion DG havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in nor replacing the dishwasher or 
reimbursing Mrs B for what she says are the costs of having to wash dishes manually, I think 
Mrs B has suffered some distress and inconvenience from DG not responding to her 
concerns when they were first raised. But I dont think this would have changed the outcome 
of her main element of complaint.
DG say they dont think they should pay Mrs B compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. But given my conclusions, I think Mrs B has suffered some distress and 
inconvenience. 
In thinking about what would be reasonable, Ive considered the circumstances of the case 
as whole, and I think £100 compensation would be fair and reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part. I 
require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mrs B £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Mrs B accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman