DRN-2313847
The complaint
Mrs B complained about Red Sands Insurance Company. She isnt happy that it turned 
down a claim under her Smart Cover policy which covers very minor scratches to her car.
Mrs B has a representative but for ease Ill just refer to her throughout the decision as it is 
her complaint.
What happened
Mrs B took out a Smart Cover policy when she bought a new car in July 2018. And when she 
damaged her car in a car park, she made a claim under her policy. But when Red Sands 
assessed the claim and looked at the pictures of the damage it declined the claim. 
As Mrs B wasnt happy about this she complained to Red Sands. She said that the reason 
Red Sands relied on in turning down the claim wasnt outlined in the policy terms and 
conditions. Red Sands said that The claim was declined due to the damage passing 
through the crease of the wheel arch and thus effecting the structure / alignment of the panel 
which means the repair cannot be completed using SMART minor cosmetic techniques. But 
Mrs B said that the policy didnt provide a definition of this and was also of the view that the 
policy was mis-sold.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B but didnt uphold her complaint. She thought 
that Red Sands had acted in line with the policy in turning down the claim. And highlighted 
that any complaint about a mis-sale was a matter for the seller of the policy, not the insurer.
As Mrs B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review and a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I can understand why Mrs B feels her claim should be met, I 
agree with our investigator that Red Sands havent acted unfairly, Ill explain why.
Mrs B looked to make a claim  after she was involved in a minor incident in a car park. As 
the damage was small she thought that she could make a claim under her policy. But the 
terms and conditions under which Mrs B was entitled to make a claim are set out in the 
policy documentation and are quite restrictive. 
The terms and conditions explain the circumstances in which a claim will be met and says 
Red Sands will provide cover against Minor Damage caused by everyday motoring, to be 
repaired using Minor Cosmetic Damage Repair techniques, subject to the terms and 
conditions detailed in this document. And from looking at the photographs of the damage I 
can understand why Red Sands turned down the claim I say this as the policy outlines that
- any damage, including Minor Damage, that cannot be repaired by using Minor 
Cosmetic Damage Repair techniques or which require a body shop. Any Chip, Minor 
Dent, Scratched Area and/or Minor Scuff where the total damaged area is no larger 
than 30cm in diameter and 3mm in depth. In the case of multiple damages being 
caused by the same incident or where Minor Damage extends across multiple 
panels, the total size of the combined damaged area must also be no larger than 
30cm in diameter and 3mm in depth.
I know Mrs Bs representative says that the size of the scratches are less than 30cm long. 
But the policy also makes reference to the fact that multiple damages, caused by the same 
incident must not be longer than 30cm in diameter and 3mm in depth. And having 
considered the photographs I think that the scratches sit with this description and with the 
fact that the policy says that the repair shouldnt exceed four hours which it was likely to. 
The intention of  the policy is to repair very minor dents and scratches without the need of a 
workshop. And given the level of damage and the fact that part of the panel indentation 
passes through the crease of the wheel arch I think its likely that a workshop would be 
required. It is also clear that this indentation or dent is clearly more than 3mm in depth which 
would be excluded under the policy.
I do agree that Red Sands couldve been clearer when it turned down Mrs Bs claim, but I 
cant say it has acted unreasonably. I know Mrs Bs representative has also said that the 
policy documentation hadnt been sent to Mrs B, but as the investigator explained this would 
be a matter for the seller of the policy and I understand a separate complaint has been set 
up about this. And Ive seen a copy of the demands and needs statement that Mrs B signed, 
and this gives and overview of how the policy works and its limitations. 
So, although I know how disappointing Mrs B and her representative will find my decision, I 
dont think Red Sands have done anything wrong.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman