DRN-3793664
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life Services UK Limited (Aviva) gave him incorrect information 
regarding the amount of tax-free cash (TFC) he could withdraw from his personal pension 
plan.
What happened
Mr S held a personal pension plan with Aviva. On 27 April 2022 Mr S spoke with Aviva to 
enquire how much TFC he could withdraw from his plan. Aviva told him he had a protected 
TFC entitlement of 43.78% of the value of the fund.
But on 12 May 2022 Mr S was made aware that the figure of 43.78% was incorrect, and he 
was in fact only entitled to 25% of his fund as TFC. It was explained to Mr S that this was 
due to him making a partial transfer away from his fund in 2021, and that as a result of the 
transfer away hed lost his entitlement to the enhanced TFC rate.
Mr S contacted Aviva three further times in May 2022 and was given further conflicting 
information as to his available TFC. As a result he made a complaint to Aviva. In its 
complaint response Aviva apologised for the incorrect information he had been given and 
offered him £250 compensation. It confirmed he was entitled to 25% of the fund value as 
TFC. And as a result of being asked by Mr S, Aviva explained that in October 2021 Mr S had 
a protected TFC entitlement of 28.79%, but this reduced to 25% when he made the partial 
transfer out. 
Mr S didnt agree so he complained to our service. He said that he had to accept taking a 
withdrawal using only 25% of his fund as TFC, and he should be given an additional cash 
amount equivalent to the missing protected TFC rate. He also said he should be 
compensated for the time it took making numerous calls to Aviva and the negative impact all 
this had on a holiday during which he was trying to resolve everything.
But our Investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more. He thought it had been 
fair in its offer of £250 for the distress and inconvenience the conflicting information it had 
given him had caused, but as Mr S was only entitled to 25% TFC he couldnt see that hed 
suffered any financial loss. 
Mr S didnt agree that he hadnt incurred any losses as a result of Avivas errors. He said 
hed had to delay taking the withdrawal due to the inconsistent information Aviva had given 
him, as he wanted to ensure hed not exceed his basic-rate personal tax allowance. And the 
value of his fund had dropped whilst he was gaining clarification from Aviva. He also said his 
enjoyment of an expensive holiday was severely disrupted.
But our Investigator didnt change his view. Whilst he understood Mr S had wanted to 
maximise the amount of money he took in the lump sum, he didnt think that Avivas error 
had actually prevented him from taking the tax-free payment from his fund. And he didnt 
think it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover the cost of his holiday.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with the opinion of the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I dont think Aviva need to do anything more here. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S, so Ill explain my reasoning.
With regard to Mr Ss holiday, whilst I understand he asserts that his enjoyment of it was 
negatively impacted by him being in communication with Aviva, it wouldnt be fair to require it 
to compensate him for this. Ultimately Mr S still had the holiday and the benefits that came 
with it.
I note that Aviva have agreed that it gave Mr S inconsistent and incorrect information 
regarding how much TFC he could withdraw from his pension fund. And I can completely 
understand why this caused him frustration and distress. To receive information about your 
retirement provision that you have little confidence in is very likely to cause some worry, and 
I can see that that is what has happened here. 
Aviva offered Mr S an apology and £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him by the errors it made. It was inconsistent in what it told Mr S about how much of 
his pension fund he could withdraw as TFC, and he suffered a clear loss of expectations as 
a result. But Im satisfied that an offer of £250 is fair and reasonable here, and is broadly in 
line with the approach our Service would take had it not already been offered.
But Mr S feels that he has suffered a financial loss as a result of Avivas errors. He asserts 
he delayed his withdrawal due to the uncertainty he was caused, and his fund value dropped 
during this time. This meant that the amount he was able to take as TFC was reduced. But 
Im afraid I dont agree with him on this point. I cant see there was a reason not to take the 
TFC when he said he originally wanted to. 
Mr S has explained that the total amount he wished to withdraw was dependent on the 
amount of TFC available, because he wished to remain below his basic rate tax income 
threshold. And I can understand this. But there was never any doubt that he was able to take 
25% of his fund value as TFC. What was in doubt at this point was whether he was able to 
take a larger amount of TFC. So, there was no risk in calculating the maximum withdrawal 
he could make using the 25% figure which Aviva was asserting was correct. And as he was 
in a drawdown arrangement if it was subsequently discovered that there had been an error, 
and he was entitled to more TFC than hed taken, this additional amount could be withdrawn 
without tax implications. So I dont agree that Mr S was unable to make his withdrawal when 
he originally wanted to, and so it follows that Aviva cant be fairly held responsible for any 
financial loss he feels hes incurred as a result of a reduction in the value of his fund. 
So as a result of all of the above, Im satisfied that the offer of £250 compensation made by 
Aviva to Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I do not require it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
I require Aviva Life Services UK Limited, if it hasnt already done so, to pay Mr S £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman