DRN-4497840
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse her after she fell victim to a scam.
Background
In mid-2023, Miss A was contacted on social media by someone promoting an investment 
opportunity. In order to persuade her that the opportunity was a genuine one, this individual 
showed Miss A examples of the extraordinary returns that had been earned by other clients. 
Unfortunately, this wasnt a legitimate investment opportunity but a scam.
She was told to open up an account with a third-party cryptocurrency platform. She made 
deposits into her e-wallet with that platform. Those deposits were then converted into 
cryptocurrency which she transferred to the scammer. In a period of five days, she 
transferred £6,200 to that account. This was split into four payments of £300, £1100, £1800 
and £3000 respectively.
When she wanted to withdraw the returns on her investment, she was told that there were 
fees that would need to be paid. Each time Miss A made one of these payments, the 
scammer would then introduce another (previously undiscussed) fee that needed to be paid. 
She recognised at that point that she mustve fallen victim to a scam.
She notified Monzo, but it didnt agree to uphold her complaint. It made reference to the 
warning message displayed during the payment process and also argued that Miss A hadnt 
carried out enough checks or taken reasonable steps to protect herself.
Miss A was unhappy with the response from Monzo and so she referred her complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. The Investigator said that, 
by the time Miss A attempted to make the final payment of £3,000, Monzo ought to have 
recognised that there was a greater than normal risk of fraud. It shouldnt have processed 
that payment without first contacting Miss A to satisfy itself that she wasnt at risk of financial 
harm. If it had done so, she was persuaded that it couldve prevented her from making the 
payment.
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators view. 
It said:
- Payments such as these fall outside the scope of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code because Miss A made payments from her Monzo account to another 
account that she controlled. 
- Its speculative to say that Miss A wouldve acted any differently even if Monzo had 
intervened, particularly given that she was persuaded by the legitimacy of the 
investment.
- It didnt agree that the payments were in quick succession. It might have accepted 
that argument if theyd been punctuated by minutes, but there were days between 
the payments here.
- Where a customer is investing money in cryptocurrency, one would expect those 
payments to be larger than the typical payments from their account.
- The Investigators view is contrary to the approach outlined by the Supreme Court in 
the case of Phillip v Barclays.
- Finally, it made reference to the forthcoming changes regarding reimbursement 
following a scam that have been proposed by the Payment Systems Regulator.
Because Monzo disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Good industry practice required that Monzo be on the lookout for payments 
that were out of character or unusual to the extent that they might have indicated a fraud 
risk. On spotting such a payment, Id expect it to intervene in a manner proportionate to the 
risk identified.
Should Monzo have intervened?
The Investigator said that it shouldve recognised that risk when Miss A made the fourth 
payment and Id agree with that conclusion. By processing that payment, it meant Miss A 
had moved £6,200 to a cryptocurrency platform in a period of less than one week. While I 
accept that, where a customer is legitimately investing their money in cryptocurrency, one 
might expect larger than normal payments, that doesnt change the fact that this was activity 
that was significantly out of keeping with the way Miss A operated her account and was 
consistent with a recognised fraud pattern.
This was a relatively new account and so there wasnt much data on Miss As typical 
spending patterns to serve as a basis of comparison. Nonetheless, the payment of £3,000 
was significantly more than any other payment on her account and the way that the four 
payments were clustered in a period of five days meant it matched a pattern of payments 
commonly associated with scams.
I have taken into account the Supreme Courts decision in Philipp v Barclays Bank UK PLC 
[2023] UKSC 25. In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the 
contractual duties owed by banks when making payments.  Among other things, it said, in 
summary:
- The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, the 
bank must carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself 
with the wisdom or risk of its customers payment decisions. 
- The express terms of the current account contract may modify or alter that position. 
For example, in Philipp, the contract permitted Barclays not to follow its consumers 
instructions where it reasonably believed the payment instruction was the result of APP fraud; but the court said having the right to decline to carry out an instruction 
was not the same as being under a duty to do so.   
In this case, Monzos terms and conditions gave it rights to:
- Block payments where it suspectd criminal activity on the account, or to protect the 
customer from fraud.
- Refuse to make a payment if it suspects the customer is a victim of fraud.
So the starting position at law was that:
- Monzo was under an implied duty at law to make payments promptly.
- It had a contractual right not to make payments where it suspected fraud.
- It had a contractual right to delay payments to make enquiries where it suspected 
fraud.
- It could therefore refuse payments, or make enquiries, where it suspected fraud, but 
it was not under a contractual duty to do either of those things.
Whilst the current account terms did not oblige Monzo to make fraud checks, I do not 
consider any of these things (including the implied basic legal duty to make payments 
promptly) precluded it from making fraud checks before making a payment.  
And whilst Monzo was not required or obliged under the contract to make checks, I am 
satisfied that, taking into account longstanding regulatory expectations and requirements,  
and what I consider to have been good practice at the time, it should fairly and reasonably 
have been on the look-out for the possibility of APP fraud and have taken additional steps, or 
made additional checks, before processing payments in some circumstances  as in practice 
all banks, including Monzo, do. 
In this case for the reasons I have explained, I am satisfied it should have intervened here at 
the point Miss A was attempting to make the £3,000 payment. 
Would an intervention have made a difference?
As Ive explained, I dont think it shouldve agreed to make that final payment without first 
contacting Miss A to ask her about it. In particular, it couldve asked her about whether she 
had control of the cryptocurrency she was purchasing, whether there was someone 
managing the investment on her behalf, the returns she was promised and how she found 
out about the opportunity. Theres no reason to believe that Miss A wouldnt have been 
candid in answering these questions and those answers wouldve revealed that she was 
falling victim to a commonly occurring scam.
Monzo has argued that this is speculation and that its unreasonable to conclude that shed 
have been dissuaded from making that finally payment. The truth is that its impossible to 
know with certainty what Miss A wouldve done if Monzo had responded differently. 
Nonetheless, I have to decide this case on the balance of probabilities  i.e., whether it is 
more likely than not that Miss A wouldve changed course.
I think there are two important factors here. First, her explanation of events doesnt indicate 
that she was told to mislead the bank if questioned about the payments. Theres no other 
evidence that contradicts that claim, nor is it inherently implausible. Second, relatively little 
information would need to be exchanged between Monzo and Miss A for an employee of the 
bank to recognise that it was extremely likely shed been targeted by a scammer. Overall, I 
dont find it unreasonable to conclude that an intervention on Monzos part wouldve 
dissuaded her from making the final payment  instead, I think the weight of the evidence supports such a conclusion.
Can Monzo be fairly held liable for Miss As loss?
Ive also taken into account that Miss A transferred the money to an account in her own 
name, rather than directly to the fraudster, so she remained in control of her money after she 
made the payments from her Monzo account, and it took further steps before the money was 
lost to the fraudsters. But for the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied that it would be 
fair to hold Monzo responsible for Miss As losses (subject to a deduction for Miss As own 
contribution). As I have explained, the potential for multi-stage scams ought to have been 
well known to Monzo and as a matter of good practice it should fairly and reasonably have 
been on the look-out for payments presenting an additional scam risk including those 
involving multi-stage scams. 
Im satisfied Monzo should fairly and reasonably have made further enquiries before the 
£3,000 payment and, if it had, it is more likely than not that the scam would have been 
exposed. In those circumstances I am satisfied it is fair to hold Monzo responsible for Miss 
As loss.      
To what extent is Miss A responsible for her own losses?
Ive also considered whether Miss A can be considered partially responsible for her own 
losses here. In doing so, Ive taken into account what the law says about contributory 
negligence, but kept in mind that I must decide this case based on what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done so, Im persuaded that it is fair and 
reasonable for her to be considered partially responsible here. 
The returns she was promised by the scammer were clearly too good to be true  she was 
told that an investment of £300 would produce a return of £20,000 in a matter of days. I also 
think she ought to have been more sceptical of an investment opportunity that was promoted 
to her on social media, particularly given that she was contacted out of the blue by the 
scammer. For these reasons, I think Monzo should be free to deduct 50% from the 
compensation it pays her.
Other issues
I have also considered Monzos observation about the PSRs proposed mandatory 
reimbursement scheme, which  as currently proposed  would not require that it reimburse 
Miss A. However, those proposals are not yet in force and are not relevant to my decision 
about what is fair and reasonable in this complaint.  
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
If Miss A accepts my decision, Monzo Bank Ltd needs to pay her £1,500. It also needs to 
add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum calculated to run from 18 August 2023 until 
the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman