DRN-4211575
Complaint
Mr B has complained about personal loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He 
says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
L2G provided Mr B with a loan for £250 in October 2018. This loan had an APR of 990.1% 
and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,019.52, 
including interest, fees and charges of £769.52, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £56.64. This loan was settled early, in March 2019, with some of the proceeds 
of loan 2. 
Mr B was then provided with a second loan for £413.39 in March 2019. £163.39 of the funds 
of this loan were used to repay loan 1. This loan had an APR of 1013.1% and a term of 18 
months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,700.64, including interest, fees 
and charges of £1,287.25, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £94.48. This 
loan was settled early in June 2019.
In December 2019, Mr B was provided with a third loan for £1,000.00. This loan had an APR 
of 1,013.2% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£4,114.08, including interest, fees and charges of £3,114.08, was due to be repaid in 18 
weekly instalments of £228.56. This loan was settled early in February 2020 with some of 
the proceeds from loan 4. 
Finally, L2G then provided Mr B with a fourth loan for £1,000.00 in February 2020. This loan 
had an APR of 1,013.2% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £4,114.08, including interest, fees and charges of £3,114.08, was due to be repaid 
in 18 weekly instalments of £228.56. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and thought that L2G ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr B with any of these loans. L2G accepted in 
relation to loans 1 and 2 but disagreed with our investigators assessment on loans 3 and 4. 
So the case was passed to an ombudsman for review. 
As the parties are in agreement with the outcome on loans 1 and 2 this decision is only 
looking at whether L2G acted fairly and reasonably when providing loans 3 and 4.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B could afford 
to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Im concerned that L2Gs own checks in the lead up to loan 3 showed that hed had recent 
payment difficulties in the form of some missed payments and one account that had recently 
been in an arrangement to repay arrears and another that was over its credit limit.
Furthermore, Mr B also had a number of defaults on his credit file  albeit some of these 
were historic. And the amount Mr B was seeking to borrow for loans 3 and 4 was 
significantly more than that for loans 1 and 2 which were taken only months early and L2G 
already accepts that these loans shouldnt have been provided to Mr B.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that L2G needed to do more to establish that Mr B 
could make the monthly repayments to loans 3 and 4 before agreeing to lend to him. As L2G 
didnt do this, Im satisfied that the checks it carried out before providing these loans werent 
reasonable and proportionate.
Mr B has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for loans 3 and 4. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr B has provided, it doesnt mean it would 
have shown up in any checks L2G might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from L2G showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what this information says as an indication of what Mr Bs financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time. 
Its also important to note that L2G was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably 
make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence basis might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the 
repayments. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.
The information provided shows that Mr B was already in a cycle of taking out further 
borrowing in order to repay existing creditors. And, in my view, he is unlikely to have been able to repay loans 3 and 4 without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. As 
this is the case, I do think that Mr Bs existing financial position meant that he was unlikely to 
be able to afford the repayments to these loans, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided loans 3 and 4 (as well as loans 1 and 2 as 
L2G has already agreed is the case) to Mr B. As L2G provided Mr B with these loans, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr B ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So I find that Mr B lost out because of what L2G did wrong and L2G needs to put things 
right for Mr B.
Fair compensation  what L2G to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for L2G to put things right for Mr B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on loans 3 and 4 (as well as loans 
1 and 2 as it has already agreed to do);
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr B to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about loans 3 and 4 (as well as 
loans 1 and 2 as it has already agreed to do) from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give           
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman