DRN-3933932
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the handling of her motor insurance claim by U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) trading as Churchill Insurance.
What happened
In 2022 Ms L was involved in an incident where she was in a collision with another vehicle. 
She contacted UKI about the incident, and provided her account of how it had occurred.
UKI contacted the third party insurer (TPI) to determine liability for the accident. Based on 
its contact with its own driver, the TPI disputed liability, stating that Ms L had been on the 
wrong side of the road. In the absence of any witnesses, UKI told Ms L that it considered it 
was reasonable to settle the claim on a split liability basis of 50/50. It confirmed that it had 
written to the TPI proposing this. Ms L disputed that she was at fault for the incident.
UKI was later informed by the TPI that its driver was not claiming under her policy. The TPI 
suggested that the parties should bear their own losses. UKI explained to Ms L that if she did 
not pursue her claim, her no claims discount (NCD) would not be affected and the incident 
would be recorded as information only. It asked Ms L if she still wanted her car to be 
repaired. Ms L responded that she was awaiting a quote for repairs, and would submit this to 
UKI when she received it. She also complained about UKIs handling of the claim to date.
In response to her complaint, UKI stated that the only evidence available for assessing 
liability was based on the differing accounts of the incident provided by Ms L and the other 
driver. In the circumstances, it considered it had acted fairly by proposing to the TPI that 
liability be split 50/50. UKI reiterated that the TPI response had been to suggest that the 
parties bear their own losses, in light of the third party driver not making a claim.
UKI highlighted its rights under the policy terms to settle the claim as it sees fit. It confirmed 
that it had written again to the TPI regarding settling on a split liability basis. In the 
meantime, UKI explained to Ms L that if she wanted to progress claiming for her repairs 
under her policy, she should contact its claims team so that it could discuss the impact this 
would have on her policy. UKI accepted that it should have more proactively progressed the 
issue of liability with the TPI, and it offered £150 compensation to Ms L to reflect this.
Ms L remained dissatisfied with UKIs handling of her claim, and brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Based on the evidence available about the 
incident, his view was that UKI had acted reasonably when proposing that the claim be 
settled on a 50/50 split liability basis. He also felt that it was fair for UKI to conclude that the 
best outcome available was either for liability to be split 50/50, or for both parties to agree to 
bear their own losses. The investigators view was that the compensation offered by UKI of 
£150 for avoidable delays was also fair.
Ms L disagreed with the investigators findings. She explained that she was still seeking to 
receive repair costs for her car whilst retaining her NCD entitlement. Ms L said that with both 
her and the third party having comprehensive cover, she wanted to use that cover to repair 
her car. With there being no witnesses to the incident, Ms L indicated that she accepted both 
parties are liable, but she said that at present, she is the only one bearing liability. Ms L 
confirmed that she remained dissatisfied with UKIs handling of her claim.
Ms L said that the £150 compensation amount was paid to her account by UKI without any 
explanation.  She also highlighted that UKI had sent her updates about her claim via text, 
despite her request that all updates be sent via email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, the terms of the insurance policy give UKI the right to carry out 
the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim made under it. Insurers have much 
experience of handling claims and of court proceedings, and will use this knowledge to 
determine whether or not to defend a claim from a third party, taking into account the costs 
involved in doing so. When investigating a complaint such as this one, this service considers 
whether the insurer has exercised its discretion to deal with the third party claim reasonably. 
We do not decide who was responsible for causing a road traffic accident, as this is what the 
courts do.
Ms L provided UKI with a comprehensive description of the incident. I understand that the 
third party also provided the TPI with her account of events. Ms L has confirmed that she still 
considers she was not at fault for the accident, although she has also indicated in her 
submissions that its reasonable to come to a conclusion that both parties are liable. As 
explained above, I need to consider whether UKI has used its discretion fairly when reaching 
its stance on liability.
As Ms L herself has acknowledged, there were no witnesses to the incident. As UKI 
observed, neither was there any CCTV or dash-cam footage. It commented to Ms L that 
situations like this often come down to one persons word against anothers. UKI has 
explained it needs to settle any third party claim on the best terms possible. With this in 
mind, based on the evidence it has, UKIs view is that the best outcome is to split liability 
50/50. An alternative in this case, suggested by the TPI in light of the third partys decision 
not to pursue a claim, is for both parties to bear their own losses.
Bearing in mind her description of the incident, I appreciate why Ms L is disappointed about 
UKIs decision to propose to the TPI that liability in this matter be split 50/50. However, an 
insurer has to take into consideration the potential costs that would be incurred in court were 
a dispute about liability to reach that stage. Overall, with the evidence that it had regarding 
the incident, my view is that UKI has used its discretion reasonably when proposing that 
liability be split equally between the parties.
Ms L has stated that she still wants her car to be repaired, but whilst also keeping her NCD 
entitlement. As explained, UKIs view is that it is reasonable to record the liability for any 
claim made under the policy as 50/50 between Ms L and the third party. That will mean that 
Ms L is considered to have been to some extent at fault for the accident, and is likely to 
affect her NCD entitlement. In light of my finding that UKI has acted fairly when considering 
liability for the incident, my view is that it would not be reasonable for me to require UKI to 
both cover the cost of the car repairs and leave Ms Ls NCD unchanged.
UKI has stated to Ms L that if she wants to pursue her claim under her policy for repairs to 
her car, she needs to speak to its claims team. Ms L has said that she will be obtaining repair quotes, but its unclear whether shes done that as yet. Either way, if she wants UKI to 
cover her repair costs, she will need to contact its claims team. UKI will then be able to 
confirm to Ms L how her NCD is likely to be affected.
UKI has accepted that it did not deal as proactively with correspondence from Ms L or the 
TPI as it could have done, and for this reason it paid £150 compensation into Ms Ls 
account. Bearing in mind awards made on complaints with similar circumstances, my view is 
that the sum paid by UKI fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience its handling of the 
claim has caused Ms L. I note what Ms L has said about this amount being paid into her 
account without an explanation, but overall my view is that UKI acted reasonably when 
making the payment.
Ms L has also complained that UKI sent her updates relating to her claim via text, despite 
her asking that all updates be sent via email. Our investigator clarified to Ms L that as her 
original complaint did not include her dissatisfaction relating to text updates, this did not form 
part of the subject matter which would be considered under this case. That said, I can see 
that UKI has confirmed to Ms L that it has updated its records to show her preference is to 
be contacted by email.
UKI confirmed in response to Ms Ls complaint that it was continuing to contact the TPI 
regarding liability for the accident. Although I appreciate that Ms L is likely to be disappointed 
with my findings, my conclusion is that UKI has acted reasonably in using its discretion when 
assessing its position on liability. It is for Ms L to consider whether she now wishes to 
progress her claim with UKI for repairs to her car by contacting its claims team.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman