DRN-1433683
 
The complaint
Mrs Z has brought this complaint on behalf of herself and her husband, Mr Z. They are 
unhappy that Leeds Building Society (LBS) has changed its lending criteria so that two of the 
buy to let (BTL) properties owned by Mr and Mrs Z are now classified as Small Houses of 
Multiple Occupancy (Small HMO). As a result, the range of mortgage products available for 
those properties is limited, and more expensive than the BTL mortgages offered by LBS to 
other borrowers. 
Mrs Z says this is unfair and that LBS should offer them the same rates as those available to 
other BTL borrowers whose properties are not Small HMOs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Z own three BTL properties. In 2017, after taking advice from a broker, they 
mortgaged the properties to LBS on two-year fixed rate standard BTL products. In 2019 
when the fixed rates came to an end, Mr and Mrs Z were dismayed to learn that LBS had 
changed its lending criteria. 
The change was that properties which were occupied by more than three but fewer than 
seven individual tenants were now classified as Small HMOs by LBS. This meant that 
standard BTL mortgages were no longer available to Mr and Mrs Z. The interest rates 
offered for borrowers with Small HMOs were higher than standard BTL mortgages, where 
the property is occupied by a single tenant, family or household. Mrs Z says this is unfair.
Mrs Z also noted that the interest rates offered to new Small HMO borrowers are lower than 
the rates offered to existing customers, and with lower product fees. Mrs Z says this is also 
unfair. A complaint was made to LBS, but it wasnt upheld. 
The complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator 
looked at what had happened. But he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
explained that it was a matter for LBSs commercial judgment to decide what interest rates to 
offer for its commercial mortgages.
Mrs Z asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Shes reiterated her concerns that 
existing customers are being treated less favourably than new customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken note of all the arguments put forward by Mrs Z, and Ive considered all the points 
shes made very carefully.
Having done so, Im afraid I have some disappointing news for Mr and Mrs Z. Im not 
upholding the complaint, for the reasons given below.
First, its important to note that Mr and Mrs Z were under no obligation to switch their 
mortgages onto another product at the end of the two-year fixed rate term. They could, if 
they had wanted to, continued with their mortgages on the reversionary rate of interest.
But Mr and Mrs Z decided to switch to a new product. Since Mr and Mrs Z took out their 
mortgages in 2017, LBS had changed its lending criteria, which meant that standard BTL 
mortgages werent available on the two properties which were Small HMOs. 
LBS is allowed to set its own lending criteria, which can change from time to time. This is a 
legitimate exercise of LBSs commercial judgment. So although I appreciate Mr and Mrs Z 
are disappointed that their range of mortgage options from LBS is now limited to whichever 
Small HMO products they qualify for, I dont think LBS has treated them unfairly.
Im satisfied LBS is allowed to offer different mortgage products to landlords operating Small 
HMOs than landlords with standard BTL properties. There are different characteristics to 
HMO occupation by multiple, individual, unrelated occupants and BTL occupation by a single 
tenant, family or household. As a result there are different risks involved in both types of 
mortgages. It follows that these two types of borrowing with different characteristics and risk 
profiles will be offered different interest rate products.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied LBS is under no obligation to offer standard BTL 
mortgages to Mr and Mrs Z for their Small HMO properties.
Mrs Z has also argued that its unfair that new Small HMO borrowers are offered a product at 
a lower interest rate and product fee than is available to her and Mr Z. I see the point Mrs Z 
is making. LBS, in common with many lenders, will offer mortgages to new customers at an 
introductory rate with a lower product fee. 
LBS says there are commercial reasons for this, including the fact that for existing 
commercial borrowers no assessment of affordability will be carried out when taking out a 
new Small HMO mortgage product on a property already mortgaged to LBS.   
The exact lending criteria and risk profiles LBS use to price its products is commercially 
sensitive information which isnt available to customers. LBS is entitled to keep this 
information confidential; otherwise borrowers who might not otherwise qualify for a mortgage 
could temporarily manipulate their circumstances in order to obtain a mortgage for which 
they werent eligible. (For clarity, I do not include Mr and Mrs Z in this category.) 
But the absence of any assessment of affordability for existing Small HMO customers taking 
out a new product is an increased risk for LBS, as it will not know if the borrowers situation 
has changed since taking out the original mortgage. This is one of the reasons why its 
existing Small HMO mortgage products are priced differently from those offered to new 
customers. Im satisfied this is a legitimate exercise of LBSs commercial judgment and so I 
have no discretion to interfere with it.
Overall Im satisfied that LBS is entitled, as part of its commercial operations, to decide the 
terms on which it will offer mortgages to landlords, whether BTL or Small HMOs, and 
whether they are existing or new customers. So although I fully understand the position 
Mr and Mrs Z are in, Im not persuaded theyve been treated unfairly or any differently from 
any other customer whose BTL property has been re-classified as a Small HMO by LBS.
In all the circumstances, I dont think LBS has treated Mr and Mrs Z unfairly.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman