DRN-1755600
 
The complaint
Mr F has complained about his mortgage account with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax). Mr F is unhappy that, after his fixed rate mortgage product expired on 30 June 
2013, Halifax failed to contact him to offer him another product. Mr F wants to be 
compensated for the additional interest hes paid between 1 July 2013 and 1 April 2019, 
when Mr F went onto a new mortgage product.
What happened
Mr F has a mortgage with Halifax which he took out on 3 June 2010. It was taken on a non-
advised basis, and was on a fixed rate of 4.49% until 30 June 2013. From 1 July 2013 the 
mortgage was on Halifaxs Standard Variable Rate (SVR), and remained so until Mr F took 
out a new mortgage product which began on 1 April 2019.
Mr F says that when his fixed rate expired in June 2013, Halifax should have contacted him 
to offer him another product. Because the bank didnt do so, Mr F was on SVR until April 
2019 and paid more than if hed taken out another fixed rate product. 
Mr F complained to Halifax that hed been overcharged, but the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Halifax said that the onus was on Mr F to contact the bank when his fixed rate expired so 
that he could select another product.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr F complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
He said that he feels Halifax had a responsibility to tell him he was being overcharged on the 
mortgage.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said Halifax owed him a duty of care in 
relation to this mortgage.
Mr F also raised some new issues, saying that he thought the mortgage had been mis-sold. 
The investigator explained that any new issues would need to be raised first with Halifax as 
a fresh complaint, but that an ombudsman would look at the complaint that Halifax failed to 
advise Mr F that he could have a new interest rate product when his original one expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm I am considering only the complaint Mr F set out on his complaint form  which is 
that Halifax failed to advise him that he could have a new interest rate product when his 
original fixed rate expired. As the investigator correctly explained, any new complaint issues 
will need to be referred to Halifax first to give the bank the opportunity to resolve them. If 
they remain unresolved, Mr F can then bring a fresh complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service about those matters.
In relation to the current complaint, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr F; Im not 
upholding his complaint. These are my reasons.
First of all, Im satisfied that the mortgage offer is clear that when the fixed rate reached its 
end on 30 June 2013, the mortgage would revert to Halifaxs SVR. Mr F received annual 
mortgage statements showing the rate of interest applied to his mortgage, so Im satisfied he 
had sufficient information to know what interest rate he was on.
Banking is largely an automated process, the majority of transactions and account 
administration being conducted on a computerised basis. When a mortgage product is about 
to expire, Halifaxs system is set up to generate a letter to the customer to inform them of 
this and inviting them to contact the bank if they wanted a new product. Halifax has many 
thousands of mortgage customers and it is simply not possible for the bank to personally 
monitor mortgage accounts where those accounts are operating normally. 
Given this, Im satisfied there was no obligation on the part of Halifax to review Mr Fs 
account and provide unsolicited advice about what products would best suit him. That could 
only be done if Mr F specifically asked Halifax to give him advice in the course of an 
application for a new product. It was up to Mr F to contact Halifax if he wanted a new 
product. In the circumstances, I cant hold Halifax responsible for any additional costs of 
being on SVR from the time Mr Fs original fixed rate product expired until he took out a new 
product from 1 April 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman