DRN-3471748
The complaint
Mr S complains about Aspray Limiteds handling of his claim under his home insurance 
policy and that part of the payment for his contents claim was applied to kitchen works.
What happened
Mr S owns a property he lets out. The property was damaged and Mr Ss insurer accepted 
his claim. Mr S was abroad, and he instructed Aspray as loss assessor to manage his claim 
to reinstate the property with the insurers payment and pass on his contents claim payment. 
Mr S said Aspray produced a schedule of works which it sent to his insurer, but not himself. 
Aspray agreed a payment of about £20,000 from the insurer and arranged contractors to 
carry out the reinstatement works. Mr S said they did a very shoddy job which still isnt 
complete. He said Aspray have only paid him £2,000 of his contents claim and kept the 
balance of £3,251, saying the insurer advised them to do so as part of the reinstatement. Mr 
S said it wasnt true that this came from the insurer and was a criminal act by Aspray. 
Mr S said Aspray pressured him to give a satisfaction note before inspecting the works and 
intimidated him rather than resolve the issues. He said Aspray caused huge delays and he 
had to live on site for three months to ensure the work was satisfactorily completed. He said 
after nine months he decided to fix things up himself at a cost of £13,150 and then accept a 
very low rent. Mr S said Asprays director didn't respond to his request for a site meeting. 
Mr S complained to Aspray about his very stressful experience and said it had dealt with his 
claim fraudulently. He said without payment of his claim he couldnt furnish or reinstate the 
property and Aspray installed an incomplete, second-hand kitchen. He said overall he had 
lost about £35,000, but would settle on payment of £25,000.
In its response, Aspray said Mr S gave authority to make decisions about his claim on his 
behalf and so it was able to apply the claim funds to the repairs. Aspray said theres no 
evidence to show any major problems with the work it carried out, and Mr S had denied it 
access to the property for many months. Aspray said its happy to carry out snagging works. 
To try to resolve his complaint Aspray paid Mr S £1,500 compensation.
Mr S disagreed with Asprays response saying it ignored his evidence. He said it fraudulently 
withheld funds from his contents claim and caused him to lose out financially, mentally and 
emotionally. He said Aspray knew about his personal position and instead of helping him it 
abused its position to rip him off. Mr S referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the insurer had said it 
wasnt possible to match Mr Ss kitchen due to its age and theres no provision for matching 
sets within the insurance policy. She said as the kitchen needed to be completely replaced it 
was decided to allocate some contents monies, and this was fair. And theres no evidence 
Mr S was pressurised into signing off the work in order to receive his contents payment.
The investigator said Mr Ss property wasnt let at the time of the claim and without bookings 
we wouldnt tell Aspray to pay loss of rent. She said theres nothing to show Aspray retained 
payments from the claim, and as it had to manage and pay contractors Mr S wasnt entitled 
to anything more. She said there were some problems with the repairs and Aspray offered to 
deal with the snagging work, but said access was denied during the dispute. She said 
Asprays payment of £1,500 compensation was in line with what we would award and is fair. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. He said Aspray committed a clear-cut fraud, but the 
investigator had whitewashed the case and contradicted herself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed Mr Ss emails, timeline, pictures and video submissions.
Mr Ss insurer paid a total of £26,037 for his repair and contents claims. I can see from the 
records that Mr Ss insurer allocated £5,351 to his contents claim, of which £2,000 was paid 
by Aspray to Mr S. The remaining funds were put towards payment for the undamaged items 
in the kitchen. 
I have seen from the files that Mr S gave authority to a managing agent to make decisions 
on his behalf concerning his claim. The managing agent dealt with the allocation of claim 
funds for the kitchen as follows:
I can confirm that during the works at [ ] when Mr S was not engaging with myself or 
Aspray, I had a conversation with [] it was agreed that as per the Loss Adjusters 
suggestion we use a portion of the contents money he had agreed in order to replace the 
undamaged kitchen units. This was the only way we were able to replace the kitchen as the 
insurers would not cover the undamaged units as a part of the buildings claim.
Aspray said Mr S wouldnt engage with it during some of the repair period and it was decided 
on the loss adjusters suggestion use a portion of the contents money he had agreed in 
order to replace the undamaged kitchen units. I can see how unhappy Mr S was with 
Asprays handling of his claim and the repairs, but I agree with Aspray that the allocation of 
claim funds was the only way it could replace the kitchen, as the insurers would not cover 
the undamaged units as a part of the buildings claim. 
From the file Ive seen that the insurers loss adjuster said due to the age of the kitchen they 
would be unable to match, further they will not be able to source new doors which would 
enable to be installed on existing carcasses again due to age. Its clear that by allocating 
contents funds to complete the kitchen further delays arising from covid restrictions were 
avoided. And Mr S didnt have to fund the deficit for the undamaged kitchen items. Although 
this has reduced funds from the contents claim the financial impact on Mr S is the same. Its 
just that the claim funds were attributed to a different part of the work.
I can see that Mr S had difficult personal circumstances around this time that might have 
made engagement unwelcome to him. I think the decision about allocating the claim funds 
was taken to ensure his interests in having a matching kitchen installed were met, and was 
reasonable. To have acted otherwise would have left his kitchen in an unmatched state.
Mr S has said he spent over £13,000 of his own money to get the work finished and to an 
acceptable standard. He has listed the work hes unhappy with, but hasnt provided any 
evidence of these costs but in any event his contract with Aspray was for the completion of 
the repairs. Aspray offered to send contractors to complete snagging work but so far as Im aware, Mr S hasnt followed up on this. This was his decision, but it doesnt make it fair to 
require Aspray to recompense Mr S for his own outlay. 
Mr S said the replacement kitchen was second hand and incomplete and said the fitter told 
him it was ex-display and so would have cost much less cost than Aspray accounted for. I 
havent seen anything to show that this was the case and so I havent considered this point 
further. Equally, I havent seen anything to show that Mr S was bullied into signing off the 
work carried out by Aspray. It appears that Asprays representative made several visits to Mr 
Ss property to deal with the claim. It is normal practice for a loss assessor to request a 
policyholder to sign off works in order to complete a claim.
Our service will require an insurer to pay for loss of rent where there is evidence of a loss 
due to an insured event. I dont think Mr Ss property was available to let at the time of the 
claim and in any event, this is a claim that should be made to Mr Ss insurer.
Aspray clearly experienced difficulties during the claim as the work commenced when the 
covid restrictions went into force. I think this caused some delays and there were difficulties 
obtaining materials. I can understand Mr Ss frustration at the slow progress and at times 
communications could have been much better. Aspray offered Mr S £1,500 compensation in 
respect of his complaint and I think this represents a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered. If he hasnt already done so, I recommend that Mr S accepts 
this payment from Aspray and arranges with them to carry out any remaining snagging work.
In conclusion, from what Ive seen Aspray tried to manage the claim in line with our normal 
expectations of a loss assessor and I havent found that it acted against Mr Ss interests.
 
It is open to Mr S to bring a separate complaint against his insurer if he thinks that it should 
have made a contribution towards the undamaged items of his kitchen where a reasonable 
match couldnt be made. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman