The complaint
Miss S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) didnt arrange the 
repairs to her vehicle when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. Admiral offered 
a cash in lieu (CIL) settlement instead. And Miss S didnt think the CIL settlement was 
sufficient to cover the cost of the repairs.
What happened
In September 2019, Miss S vehicle was involved in a car accident. So, she made a claim 
under her motor insurance policy for the damage caused to it. 
Admiral appointed its own, approved repairer to inspect Miss S car. This approved repairer 
produced a report setting out the extent of the damage.
This report said there was damage to the front bumper, some panelling on the front right-
hand side, and to the right hand, front wing. And it noted the repairs to this would cost 
£1,891.15 including VAT. However, the engineer said it couldnt carry out the repair work. 
This was because;
There was corrosion on the wing, which was pre-existing;
As the corrosion pre-existed the accident, it wasnt covered under the policy;
It wouldnt be able to guarantee its repairs because of the corrosion on the wing.
So, it recommended that a cash in lieu payment was given to Miss S. That way she could 
get the insured repairs completed  as well as paying to get the uninsured works repaired 
herself. Admiral therefore offered a cash in lieu settlement of £1,891  less the policy excess 
of £350. This made the settlement £1,541.
 Miss S didnt think this was fair. She thought Admiral should complete the repairs to her car, 
including the front wing. And Miss S felt the engineer hadnt carried out a full and detailed 
inspection of her car. The inspection had taken place on her driveway, and the engineer 
hadnt used a ramp. And she said there were only two rust spots on the car. Miss S took her 
car to another garage who provided a further quote of £2,858.30 to repair the damage. And 
she felt Admiral should now pay the costs her own repairer had said were correct  including 
the replacement right wing. 
Miss S also said shed been told the payment of £1,541 was only an interim payment until 
the full settlement amount could be agreed. Miss S returned the cheque and complained that 
Admiral had refused to carry out the repairs.
 Within their response Admiral said it was normal for them to take wear and tear into account 
when reaching a settlement figure. And as Miss S policy didnt cover the replacement wing, 
the CIL figure would only reflect the amount necessary to carry out the insured repairs.
 As she didnt agree with Admirals response, Miss S brought her complaint to our service.
DRN-1606248 Our investigator spoke with Admiral and their engineer reconsidered the quote provided by 
Miss S. The engineer revaluated the CIL figure by excluding the replacement wing in 
exchange for a repair. And to reflect this, Admiral offered to pay Miss S a cheque for £1,774. 
This was the cost of the repair,£2,124, less the policy excess of £350.
 Miss S remained unhappy. She said she would accept  £2,750 less the policy excess of 
£350 to settle the claim. Miss S also complained she wasnt given a courtesy car while her 
car was being repaired. As Admiral disagreed with the settlement figure Miss S requested, 
and Miss S didnt agree with the investigators view, the case was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Miss S complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Im aware Miss S has raised several points during her complaint. While Im not able to 
address every point made, Id like to reassure Miss S that Ive carefully considered 
everything shes said. To make my decision, Ive considered whether Admiral handled Miss 
Ss claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, as well as in a fair and 
reasonable manner. 
Under Miss Ss policy, Admiral has the right to decide how they settle a claim. The policy 
says Admiral will decide how to settle the claim, and they will either pay to repair the car, or 
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. Im satisfied Admiral can rely on this 
term as long as they apply the term in a fair and reasonable way. This is because it forms 
part of the policy Miss S agreed to when taking the cover out, and this is common of most 
motor insurance policies.
I understand Miss S didnt agree the level of corrosion was as vast as reported by the 
engineer, but Ive seen nothing to persuade me the engineers report was inaccurate. And 
under the term what we will pay  Admiral are entitled to make a decision based on the 
garage/engineers recommendations  which they did on this occasion.
The quote provided by Miss S, shows an assessment note which shows the garage had 
quoted for a replacement wing due to corrosion. Together with the photographs Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that both garages assessed the wing as having the level of corrosion that would 
warrant a replacement as opposed to a repair. 
Miss S car was assessed by Admirals approved repairer. They estimated how much it 
would cost to repair the damage. But they couldnt offer a guarantee on a repair owing to the 
pre-existing corrosion. As the policy didnt cover Miss S for the replacement wing, Admiral 
had the choice whether to carry out the repairs and ask Miss S to pay for the pre-existing 
damage to the wing, or give Miss S the money so she could have her own repairs done. 
Admiral offered a cash settlement, as the policy entitles them to settle claims in this way. 
Im aware Miss S has said Admiral told her the payment was an interim payment. And while I 
dont doubt Miss Ss recollection, based on the evidence available to me, Im dont think 
Admiral misled Miss S in any way about the settlement figure, or that Admiral gave the 
impression the payment was an interim payment. 
With that said, all thats left for me to consider is whether Admiral acted fairly and reasonably 
when deciding the CIL settlement figure for Miss Ss claim. Ive considered the quote from the approved garage of £1,891. And the quote from Miss Ss 
chosen garage of £2,858. The first quote appears to be significantly lower than the second 
quote provided by Miss Ss chosen garage. But the first quote doesnt include a replacement 
wing - and only covered the cost of a repair. Taking this into account and deducting the cost 
of the replacement wing listed separately on the quote provided by Miss S. I can see both 
quotes are quite similar. 
I can see Admirals initial settlement figure was equal to the quote provided by the approved 
garage - minus the policy excess. But as Miss S remained dissatisfied, our investigator 
spoke with Admiral who agreed to revalue the claim. 
Admirals in-house engineer then re-evaluated the first quote it had given. Admiral then 
offered to pay for the equivalent repair as though the repair had been carried out by the non-
approved repairer, rather than its own engineer. And offer a settlement figure of £1,774 to 
reflect this. 
Given was slightly higher, and based on a repair as though it were carried out by the non-
approved repairer (that Admiral did not need to accept),it wouldnt be fair of me to ask 
Admiral to do anything more. Im satisfied the settlement figure offered by Admiral was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Courtesy car
I can understand Miss Ss frustration as she thought she would have been offered a courtesy 
car. Which she would have done, had it not been for the corrosion leading to the CIL 
settlement. But having read the terms and conditions, I can see a courtesy car would only be 
available to Miss S had her vehicle been repaired by the approved garage, as this would be 
something the garage would have arranged. In the circumstances, the policy didnt allow for 
a courtesy car when Miss Ss car was taken to another garage.
I understand Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, but overall, Im satisfied Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited have acted fairly and reasonably while dealing with Miss Ss 
claim. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds offer of 
£2,124 less the policy excess of £350 is fair. 
My final decision
Im satisfied Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds offer of £2,124 less the policy excess of 
£350 is fair. So, if Admiral Insurance Company Limited hasnt already done so, it should pay 
this to Miss S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman