DRN-2431025
The complaint
Mr L complains about the customer service he received from National Westminster Bank
Plc (NatWest) when he visited a branch.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr L visited a NatWest branch. He says there was a queue so he explained
to the person managing the queue (as hed been advised to by NatWest during a phone call)
that he couldnt queue because of his age and disability, which meant he couldnt stand for
long. He says she made unkind comments about if he was unwell, he should have stayed at
home, and told him hed have to wait. Mr L thought hed been treated unfairly so he
complained.
NatWest responded to say it didnt agree it had treated Mr L unfairly. It said it needed to limit
branch capacity because of the pandemic, which was why there was a queue outside. It said
it wouldnt have been appropriate for it to prioritise Mr L over other vulnerable customers, so
it was fair for him to be asked to wait his turn. And it said the person managing the queue
had saved his place while he waited on nearby council seating, which it felt was an
appropriate accommodation given his needs. It did, however, offer him £50 compensation
because it had trouble locating his details when he contacted it to explain what had
happened.
Mr L didnt think NatWest had resolved his complaint fairly. He had several points:
The branch was not full;
There is no council seating outside the branch;
He knows some of the people in the queue arent disabled, vulnerable or old;
The person managing the queue had been disrespectful by saying he should have
stayed at home; and
NatWest should provide for disabled people and questioned whether if he went to the
branch again, would he be asked to queue again?
NatWest considered Mr Ls points, but its position remained unchanged, saying it couldnt
guarantee he would be able to walk straight into the branch on his next visit as there might
be other vulnerable customers already waiting. It did, however, say if he let a member of
staff know he couldnt queue they could save his place again. And that if he told them when
he next planned to visit the branch manager would be told to expect him.
Mr L brought the complaint to our service for an independent review. The investigator
concluded, in summary, that considering the consequences of the pandemic on daily lives,
NatWest had treated Mr L fairly. Mr L disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has explained that because of the pandemic it had to limit the number of people in
the branch. This was common across the industry and in-line with government guidelines.
So I dont think it was wrong for NatWest to ask people to wait outside until there was space
in the branch. Mr L says it wasnt full. I accept it might not have looked like it was. But with
social distancing its difficult to tell. I think it was most likely at capacity. Otherwise, I see no
reason for NatWest not to let more people in.
Ive used a well-known web mapping service to see whats outside the branch Mr L
visited. I can see there is seating along both sides of the high street. Theyre not benches.
Instead they appear to be large pieces of concrete shaped at the top to provide a seat. I can
see why Mr L describes them as stones. But Im satisfied they are seats.
NatWest has said the people in the queue upon Mr Ls arrival were also vulnerable. Mr L
says they werent. I understand why this would have annoyed Mr L. But I dont think it would
be appropriate, or practical, for NatWest to assess the degree of someones vulnerability in
order to rank them. In my view it was reasonable for NatWest to take what it was told at face
value and provide support where it could  such as by offering to save Mr Ls place while he
seated himself.
Mr L has said the person managing the queue made unkind comments. His recollection of
events has changed somewhat over the course of the complaint but ultimately it appears he
was unhappy she wouldnt let him into the branch straightaway, asked him to wait on a stone
and said if he wasnt well enough to wait, he should have stayed at home. Mr L says he felt
insulted and embarrassed.
I understand Mr Ls strength of feeling on this matter. However, considering what hes said,
what the bank has said, and in light of what Ive set out above, I think its most likely the
person managing the queue was trying to help. I say this because I dont think it was wrong
of her to ask him to wait his turn to enter the branch and I think it was supportive of her to
save his place in the queue while he sat nearby  albeit it on a stone-like seat.
And I think, given the pandemic and government guidance on shielding, her saying he
shouldnt have been out-and-about could just as easily have been well-intentioned advice
rather than a criticism. Considering her supportive action around saving his place in the
queue, Im not persuaded she meant disrespect.
Mr L asked about future visits. I wouldnt expect NatWest to guarantee him access ahead of
all other people every time he visited. And I think NatWests offers of saving his place in the
queue while he sat and notifying the branch manager to look out for him, were supportive.
NatWest couldnt initially locate Mr Ls details. But I consider the £50 compensation it paid
him to reflect the impact of this was fair.
My role here is to decide if NatWest treated Mr L fairly in the individual circumstances of this
complaint. I think it did for the reasons Ive set out above. Mr L would also like me to
comment on NatWests actions toward disabled people in general and for me to require it to 
make changes. Im afraid I cant help him with this as its beyond my remit.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman