DRN-3354022
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs M payment protection 
insurance (PPI). The PPI was actually sold by Alliance & Leicester, who also provided the 
mortgage that the PPI covered. But Santander later took over Alliance & Leicester and so 
is responsible for answering the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Santander 
as the seller of the PPI.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly-premium PPI policy which covered a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1997 and the PPI became live in May 2003. The policy stopped in 
2007. Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me.
When I looked at the case, Imy view was similar to the adjudicators. However there had 
since been further information and comments to consider, so I decided it would be fair to 
set out my view on the whole case and invite further comments and evidence. I wrote a 
provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt agree to the PPI and that it must have been started by 
Santander without their consent, possibly in error  they say it wasnt them who 
cancelled the PPI in 2007, and this must instead have been Santander realising its 
mistake. Mr M says he was made redundant in October 2003 but didnt claim, because 
he didnt know about the PPI. He says he hadnt needed the PPI because of his savings 
and other cover, and the sickness and redundancy cover provided by his employer.
The start of the PPI was a long time ago and many of the original documents from the 
time are not now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also, 
I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened about 20 years 
ago when the PPI started.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with 
all cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what 
evidence there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can 
be difficult.
If someone, or an organisation, is accused of doing something wrong, its a long 
established principle that they wouldnt usually have to prove their innocence. And it 
would be especially difficult to do this when it was such a long time ago. So it wouldnt 
be fair for me to conclude the PPI was started without consent, unless there was 
reasonable supporting evidence.
Mr and Mrs M have pointed to the fact they didnt make a claim when Mr M was made 
redundant in October 2003. But that doesnt conclusively prove that Mr and Mrs M didnt 
agree to the PPI in May 2003  they might have forgotten about it, or more likely 
decided not to claim for some reason  such as Mr M finding employment soon after 
and so not being entitled to claim.
Mr and Mrs M have also sent us a document dated 16 May 2003 from Santander. This 
set out the terms of the PPI and showed where they should sign to confirm they had 
understood the insurance; there was also a direct debit mandate for signing and 
sending to the insurer. Mr M says he didnt sign and return it, because hed decided he 
didnt want the PPI. He says the copy of the direct debit letter, without his signature, is 
proof that he didnt authorise it.
However, I think its unlikely the insurer, which was a different company to Santander, 
would have been able to set up a direct debit with Mr and Mrs Ms bank, unless it had 
some form of authorisation. And Ive seen a chat log of the insurers customer history 
on the account.
The information it gives is scanty, but it does have this entry: A Missing Info. Letter 
was sent on 28/5/03. So it does seem there was some further correspondence after 
the 16 May which may have included a further request for the direct debit. Also, Mr and 
Mrs M may have authorised the direct debit in some other way, such as visiting the 
branch.
Theres also an undated letter addressed to Mr M, welcoming him to the insurance 
and saying that the first premium would be taken in July 2003. Mr M says he didnt 
receive this. But this is one small further piece of evidence that the PPI might have 
been set up properly and Mr and Mrs M have simply forgotten about it, so many years 
later.
On the chat log there is also an entry for 07/11/07 saying Direct Debit Rejected  
Instruction Cancelled. And for 27/11/07 saying A new policy letter was sent. Can man 
[meaning cancelled mandate?]  Phoned and cancelled he just doesnt need the 
cover. So this does suggest Mr M was aware of the PPI  at least in 2007.
What Im saying is, to some degree, speculation about what may have happened. But 
my point is that there are possible explanations of what happened, other than that 
Santander set up the PPI without authorisation. And theres some evidence to support a 
view that they were likely to have been aware of the PPI originally.
I also agree its possible there was an error by Santander and the insurer. But I cant say 
that this is the most likely explanation.
Overall, I dont currently have strong enough evidence to say the PPI was set up 
without Mr and Mrs Ms authorisation.
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case. I will explain why:
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr M (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It could have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay, if he was able to 
make a valid claim. And it would have put off the time when they would need to 
fall back on any savings. This all would have put Mr and Mrs M in a more secure 
position, if they eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the 
PPI when they took it out.
It looks likely the monthly price of the policy was explained. So I think Mr and 
Mrs M would have understood how much it would cost.
So my current view is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But, Santander has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because 
it didnt tell
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt agree with my provisional decision. The points they made 
were chiefly ones that I had already considered when reaching my provisional decision. 
They included that:
They were not aware of the PPI and this is shown by the fact that they didnt make a 
claim for it when they could have. They said this also showed they didnt need the 
PPI. 
The payments were from Mrs Ms account, which does not make sense to them as it 
was Mr M who was covered by the policy.  
Banking practices at the time, including pressures on salespeople, mean it is likely 
the PPI would have been set up without the customers consent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs M have said, but I do think I addressed the main points 
in my provisional decision. I said why it is possible they did not make a claim when they say 
they could have. And, overall, even though the points they make are understandable, they 
are not enough to change the balance of probability  I still cant fairly say its more likely 
than not the PPI was added without their consent. 
The payment for the PPI from Mrs Ms account does not, in my view, show that the PPI was 
added without consent. If the payment was from an account other than that from which the 
mortgage was paid, this would suggest there was a deliberate instruction given by Mr and 
Mrs M to the bank. Mrs M had an interest in the PPI, in that it was protecting the mortgage 
on her home. In particular, there is evidence from the computer log that there was further contact with 
Mr M about the PPI, including when it was cancelled in 2007. This does suggest he was 
aware of it at some point, even if he now doesnt remember it so many years later. 
Its true that there was widespread misconduct in the financial sector around the sale of PPI. 
But that does not mean it is likely that all sales of PPI were mis-sales. From all the many 
thousands of cases we have reviewed, there are very many cases where PPI was an 
appropriate recommendation  especially to protect mortgages on peoples homes. Often, 
because it was so long ago, people are genuinely convinced that they did not agree to the 
PPI. In some cases, evidence then comes to light that convinces them that they did agree to 
it, but had forgotten. 
I cant be sure what happened in the case of Mr and Mrs Ms PPI  and I do not doubt at all 
that they truly believe they didnt consent to it. I acknowledge that they might be right. But I 
do not have strong enough evidence to fairly say this is the most likely explanation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I confirm my provisional decision and am not upholding this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman