complaint
Mr M complains about the handling of his travel insurance claim by U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI), and the settlement paid. 
background
Mr M was hospitalised whilst on holiday and later made a claim for various expenses that he 
and his wife had incurred. UKI settled the claim, however it didnt provide him with a full 
breakdown and so Mr M couldnt be sure UKI had paid him the correct amount. He was also 
unhappy with UKIs handling of the claim. 
UKI accepted it could have handled the claim better. It offered Mr M £50 compensation to 
acknowledge this. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator mediated with UKI and arranged for UKI to make a further payment in 
respect of Mr Ms wifes travelcard, which shed used to visit him in hospital. However, our 
investigator thought UKI had settled the remainder of the claim fairly, and thought the 
compensation paid by UKI for its handling of the claim was reasonable. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Phone calls
The policy says phone calls arent covered, other than calls to its assistance service. UKI 
reimbursed Mr M for the calls made to its assistance service. Im satisfied this was 
appropriate, and so I dont require UKI to reimburse Mr M for any other calls, or data charges 
or daily charges made by his or his wifes phone provider. 
Hotel expenses
Mr M said UKI hadnt reimbursed him for the full amount hed paid for hotels. 
The policy says UKI will cover extra accommodation if the length of the journey is extended 
due to a stay in hospital. My understanding is that this is what UKI has done (minus 
expenses that arent covered under the policy, such as food and drink). 
I think that was appropriate, and so I havent found that Mr M has experienced any financial 
loss here. 
DRN-1954717Unused theatre tickets
Mr M and his wife bought theatre tickets, which they then didnt use. UKI reimbursed Mr Ms 
ticket, but not his wifes. 
As the investigator has explained, we refer to this part of Mr Ms claim as effective 
curtailment. That means his trip was effectively cut short because of his hospitalisation. As 
he couldnt use his theatre ticket because his trip had been cut short, it was appropriate for 
UKI to reimburse him for this. 
Mr Ms unhappy that UKI didnt also reimburse the cost of his wifes ticket. In some 
circumstances, we might find it appropriate for an insurer to reimburse costs for an event 
that wasnt attended for someone other than the person incapacitated, but only where it was 
necessary for that person to remain with them during their hospitalisation. 
After the investigator issued his view on this, Mr M provided us with some further explanation 
about what happened. He said the day he and his wife were due to attend the theatre was 
the day that he underwent a life saving operation, and was then placed into intensive care 
afterwards. 
That being the case, Im satisfied it was necessary for Mr Ms wife to remain in the hospital 
with him. Ive already made UKI aware that because of this, I require it to reimburse Mr Ms 
wifes theatre ticket.
Travelcard
Mr Ms wife used a travelcard to make the journey between her hotel and the hospital. The 
policy covers taxi fares of up to £20 per day for a relative to visit Mr M in hospital, and I note 
Mr Ms wife did sometimes use taxis. However, she also bought a travelcard on the day Mr 
M was admitted to hospital - presumably so she could sometimes take the cheaper option to 
visit him. 
Our investigator thought it would therefore be fair for UKI to reimburse the cost of the 
travelcard for the five days Mr Ms wife used it. I agree this seems a reasonable outcome. 
Im pleased that UKI agreed with our investigator on this point.
Handling of the claim
Mr M says UKIs assistance company gave him misleading information. In its email to him 
dated 1 November 2018, it told him it had been able to financially guarantee his case, and 
that meant it would be taking care of any necessary outstanding costs, and that he would be 
able to submit a claim for any out of pocket expenses on his return to the UK. 
Like the investigator, I dont think the assistance company did give Mr M misleading 
information here. Whilst I appreciate it could have said that only expenses covered by the 
policy would be paid, it didnt tell him that they would all be paid  just that he could submit a 
claim.
UKI accepted it hadnt handled the claim as well as it could have done. It didnt update Mr M 
as often as it should have, and also told Mr M he would receive payment before Christmas, 
but he didnt. UKI has offered Mr M £50 compensation to recognise its failings, and Im 
satisfied this was an appropriate amount in the circumstances. Mr M has also raised concerns about UKIs handing of the medical emergency, as he says it 
delayed his repatriation back to the UK and caused him and his wife unnecessary distress 
and anxiety.
As the investigator has explained, Mr M hadnt raised his concerns about the delayed 
repatriation directly with UKI. We asked UKI if we could consider Mr Ms concerns as part of 
this complaint, but it refused as it wanted to look into the matter first - which its entitled to 
do. Once Mr M receives UKIs response to his complaint about this, if he remains unhappy, 
he may be able to bring a new complaint to this service.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to 
reimburse Mr M for five days of the travelcard, if it hasnt already done so. 
I also require UKI to reimburse Mr M for his wifes unused theatre ticket. Interest should be 
added to this at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. 
 If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman