DRN-2985973
The complaint
Mr L has complained that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021 that I summarise below.
Mr L was given a guarantor loan of £1,000 in March 2018. The loan was repayable over 30
months with monthly repayments of around £61. If the loan ran to term, the total amount
repayable including interest was just over £1,845.
Mr L complained that the loan wasnt affordable for him and that he was treated unfairly
during the application process. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that UK 
Credit needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I said that UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't 
lend to Mr L irresponsibly. And that UK Credit had to carry out proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that he could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
UK Credit asked Mr L for information about his income and expenditure and it acquired a 
credit report and a payslip. UK Credit says the checks it carried out before it agreed to lend 
to Mr L were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for him.
UK Credit was aware from the credit report it acquired that Mr L had previously had
difficulties repaying credit. His credit report showed he had two accounts which had
defaulted a few months earlier and there were two CCJs, at least one of which had not been
fully discharged. There was also some historical defaults. UK Credit was also aware that Mr
L was taking the loan in order to pay off an outstanding utility bill.
Given the type of lending, I thought its reasonable for a lender to expect to see some 
adverse information on the borrowers credit report. UK Credit says its checks were 
proportionate  given the relatively low loan value. But given that Mr L struggled to repay 
credit during the previous few months, I think it would have been reasonable in the 
circumstances for UK Credit to look further into his financial position - to satisfy itself he 
could sustainably repay the loan.
Mr L provided bank statements from his current account from around the time he applied
for this loan. I reviewed these carefully. Different checks might show different things. But 
from what Id seen, even if UK Credit had carried out more thorough checks at the time, such 
as requesting a bank statement, I couldnt fairly say that it ought reasonably to have 
concluded that it should decline Mr Ls application for the loan.
I didnt think UK Credit would reasonably have thought that Mr Ls bank account was 
showing significant signs of financial distress, such as frequently returned requests for 
payment or high bank charges for an unarranged or arranged overdraft. In the three months 
leading up to the loan Mr Ls bank account remained in credit. I could see that hed borrowed 
from at least one other short-term lender and he was making some ad hoc payments to 
other individuals. But there doesnt appear to be regular or frequent borrowing from multiple 
short-term lenders or other indications which might have signalled to UK Credit that Mr L 
was experiencing severe financial difficulties. 
Overall, I didnt think there was sufficient evidence that Mr Ls financial position was so poor 
that it ought reasonably to have led UK Credit to decline his loan application. Mr L was 
transferring sums in and out of his savings account and he may have been spending more 
than he had estimated. But in the circumstances, I couldnt fairly say that UK Credit ought 
reasonably to have concluded that he was having such difficulties managing his finances 
that he would be unable to meet his monthly loan repayments of around £61 on a 
sustainable basis. Or that it would be irresponsible to lend to him.
Mr L also complained that he was treated unfairly by UK Credit during the application
process and that he was pressured to extend the loan term to 30 months. I listened to
recordings of telephone calls between Mr L and UK Credit. From what Id heard, the lender
explained to Mr L that the loan term would have to be extended due to the affordability
assessment of the loan guarantor and Mr L agreed to this. Overall, it didnt seem to me
that the lender unfairly pressured Mr L or treated him unreasonably during those telephone
calls.
I invited Mr L and UK Credit to send me any further comments before I made my final 
decision. UK Credit has told us it has nothing further to add. Mr L disagreed with my 
provisional decision and has sent us a number of comments and further information, all of 
which I have read and considered very carefully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter.
Mr L says he strongly believes that the checks that UK Credit carried out werent 
proportionate and that it should have checked his bank statements. I also said in my 
provisional decision that I thought it would have been reasonable for UK Credit to have 
looked further into Mr Ls circumstances.
Mr L thinks that if UK Credit had checked his bank statements it would have concluded that 
he did not have sufficient disposable income each month to be able to afford the monthly 
loan repayments. He sets out the various payments he was making and that fact that his 
outgoings and income fluctuated. He thinks UK Credit ought to have realised that he wasnt 
managing his finances well and that it should have allowed him a larger buffer each month 
after making his loan repayments. Mr L says his debts werent investigated and that his 
credit history was poor, including 2 CCJs. Mr L also says that he was paying a high 
proportion of his income to repay debts.
As I explained in my provisional decision, given the type of lending, I think its reasonable for 
UK Credit to expect to see some adverse information on his credit report. But as I said, as 
Mr L had previously had difficulties repaying credit, UK Credit ought to have looked further 
into his financial position - to satisfy itself he could sustainably repay the loan. However, as I have explained, even if UK Credit had carried out more thorough checks at 
the time, such as requesting a bank statement, I cannot fairly say that I think it ought to have 
concluded that it should decline Mr Ls application for the loan. I have set out the reasons for 
why I think this in my provisional decision, as summarised above, so I wont repeat it again. 
Mr L says his income fluctuated but I dont think UK Credit ought reasonably to have 
considered that this fluctuation was significant. I cant fairly say that I think UK Credit ought 
to have concluded that Mr L was having such difficulties managing his finances that he 
would be unable to meet his monthly loan repayments on a sustainable basis. 
I have thought carefully about what Mr L says about his financial position, but overall, I cant 
fairly say that I think UK Credit ought reasonably to have concluded that he was 
experiencing severe financial difficulties or that his financial position was so poor that it 
would be irresponsible to lend to him. 
I have thought very carefully about every further point that Mr L has made but his further 
comments have not changed my mind about this complaint. So I confirm the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I am sorry if Mr L has experienced financial difficulties 
and I know he will be disappointed by my decision. But I would like to reassure him I 
carefully considered everything that both he and UK Credit told us, and all the information 
provided. Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against UK 
Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman