DRN-2186108
The complaint
Mr T complains that MYJAR Limited lent irresponsibly to him. 
What happened
Between August 2016 and September 2018, Mr T borrowed six loans from MYJAR. The 
borrowing history is set out below: 
 
Loan 
No Date takenDate 
repaidPlanned 
Instalments Capital
1 24/08/2016 26/08/2016 1 400
    
2 12/12/2016 19/12/2016 3 250
    
3 16/05/2017 25/08/2017 3 725
4 28/08/2017 30/11/2017 3 800
    
5 12/06/2018 03/08/2018 3 300
6 06/09/2018 28/10/2018 3 250
Our adjudicator thought there were three chains of borrowing in this case. On that basis, he 
said MYJAR was right to treat the first loan of each chain as new borrowing. Following that, 
he thought the checks undertaken by MYJAR were proportionate and that the loans would 
have appeared to be sustainably affordable. 
Mr T disagreed with that view. He said he accepted that MYJAR wasnt irresponsible to 
agree loans 1 and 2. But he thought that it should have done more because the amount he 
had borrowed in respect of loans 3 and 4 was high. He said he also had around five to six 
active payday loans when he applied for loans 3 and 4. Mr T provided a detailed analysis of 
his financial situation during the loan periods. He thought that if MYJAR had looked at his 
finances more closely, it would have seen that he could not sustainably repay the loans in 
question. 
As Mr T did not agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. As I said above, Mr T agreed with what 
our adjudicator said about loans 1 and 2. So I havent looked any further at whether 
providing these loans was irresponsible. 
I think our adjudicator was right when he said that loans 3 and 4 constituted a new chain of 
lending. So effectively, loan 3 could be treated as an entirely new application for borrowing. 
As I said above, I think that as loan 3 was consequently early in the lending relationship, 
MYJAR could have reasonably undertaken less thorough checks. 
I can see that when Mr T did apply for loan 3, he declared his income to be £2,200 per 
month and his expenditure at £700 per month. He was said to be living with his parents and 
so I dont think it was unreasonable for MYJAR to rely on the amount Mr T disclosed in 
relation to his expenditure. 
MYJAR also undertook some independent checks. I have been provided with a copy of the 
information it received. I cant see anything within that data to suggest that Mr T couldnt 
sustainably repay loan 3. I think the position is broadly the same with loan 4. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr T said in respect of loans 3 and 4 being relatively high 
amounts. But looking at the repayments compared with his disposable monthly income, I can 
see why MYJAR would have reasonably concluded that the repayments were sustainable 
over the planned three-month period. It was not clear to me whether Mr T agreed with what our adjudicator said about loans 5 and 
6, so I have considered this borrowing further. Taking account of the gap between loans 4 
and 5, I think our adjudicator was right to treat loans 5 and 6 as a separate borrowing chain. 
Looking at the information MYJAR had about Mr Ts finances, the highest repayments for 
both loans were £156.66 and 123.40 respectively. Mr Ts declared disposable income was 
considerably greater than the repayments and I can see how they would have appeared 
sustainably affordable to MYJAR. 
MYJAR also undertook some independent verification checks in respect of loans 5 and 6. 
Whilst I can see that those checks showed Mr Ts indebtedness was increasing, I dont think 
there was enough to indicate that Mr T couldnt sustainably repay this borrowing. Moreover, 
as loan 5 constituted a new chain of lending, I think the checks MYJAR undertook were 
probably proportionate. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr T, but for the reasons set out above, Im afraid I dont uphold this 
complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman