DRN-2644998
The complaint
 Miss R complains that she was mis-sold a finance agreement by Vauxhall Finance plc (VF).
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The dealer was acting on behalf of VF when arranging the finance agreement. Section 56 
Consumer Credit Act makes VF responsible for any mis-selling. 
Miss R returned to the dealer a few months after acquiring a car and explained that her 
circumstances had changed and she needed to reduce her outgoings. She has said he 
agreed to swap her car for a cheaper one which would reduce her monthly payments. This is 
what the dealer did. 
However, I have looked at the documentation given to Miss R including the finance 
agreement and there is no mention of any negative equity on her old car. It simply shows the 
sale price of the new car as £12,617, but this hides the fact that negative equity was swept 
up in that global figure. That means Miss R was buying a car which was worth considerably 
less than she had been led to believe. This came to light when she spoke to other dealers 
who valued the car well below the price she paid.
The fact this key piece of information was not made clear to Miss R meant that she was 
unable to make an informed choice about the replacement car and the finance agreement 
she was offered. She has told this service that she would have sought alternative solutions 
to her financial challenges and I have no reason to doubt this.
She also says that she was told the running costs of insurance, tax and fuel would be lower. 
This turned out to be incorrect. However, the consumer has a degree of responsibility to 
ensure what they are buying meets their needs. Information on tax, insurance and fuel 
consumption is readily available and it was open to Miss R to be satisfied the replacement 
car met her needs as far as running costs were concerned.
I gather she also paid for a service plan which she later cancelled without having any benefit. 
While that was unfortunate I cannot say that this was something for which I can hold VF 
responsible. Nor can I hold it responsible for subsequent repairs which cost Miss R £500. If 
Miss R believes the car was faulty at the point of sale then she should raise that as a 
separate complaint, but nothing I have seen indicates the car was not fit for purpose. 
VF has said it is not illegal to fund negative equity and I agree, but it is wrong to hide the fact 
there is negative equity from a customer.
Normally this service would seek to out the consumer back in the position they would have 
been had the error not occurred, but the original car has been sold and an alternative 
resolution is required. I have considered our investigators suggested solution and I think that 
is the best way to resolve matters. The negative equity should be deducted from the sum 
borrowed and the agreement restructured. The guide price for the car was £8,580, but the 
dealer sold it for £12,617 including the negative equity. 
Putting things right
 VF should restructure the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this agreement and I direct Vauxhall Finance plc to 
restructure the agreement having deducted the negative equity.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman