DRN-2404246
The complaint
Mrs B complains that TSB Bank plc refused two direct debit payments due to there not being 
enough funds available in her bank account. She also complains about a separate incident, 
when she received a text incorrectly telling her there wasnt enough funds in her account to 
pay her direct debits  which she says caused her distress during her stay at a health farm.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
- In respect of the two returned direct debits, TSBs terms and conditions explain that if 
theres not enough available funds in the account, a direct debit payment will not go 
through; and after two unsuccessful attempts on the day its due, it will be refused, 
and a returned item fee will be charged. The terms and conditions explain that the 
available funds are the account balance and any arranged overdraft, less pending 
transactions.
- TSB has provided details of the pending transactions on the date the direct debits 
were due, and Im satisfied Mrs Bs available funds werent enough for the direct 
debits to be paid. So, I dont consider TSB acted unfairly when it refused Mrs Bs 
direct debit payments. It also waived the two returned item fees as a gesture of 
goodwill.
- In respect of the text message Mrs B received, TSB accepts that due to an IT issue, 
Mrs Bs salary payment wasnt credited to her account on the morning in question. 
Direct debits were due, so an alert was sent via text to Mrs B. TSB says the issue 
was rectified later that day, and because it was aware of the issue, no items were 
returned unpaid. However, TSB said the issue led to its helpline being busy with 
longer than usual wait times. It offered Mrs B £50 to apologise, and £6 for any 
expenses incurred.
- Mrs B says at the time she was staying at a health farm for two days, recovering from 
a heart attack. She says she had to spend hours trying to contact TSB, her employer, 
and the recipients of the impacted direct debits; and she wasnt able to enjoy the 
health farm facilities due to trying to sort the matter out and the worry. 
- Our investigator thought TSB should compensate Mrs B a further £150 (so, £206 in 
total), due to the distress and inconvenience caused. TSB disagreed. It has pointed 
towards the following: Mrs Bs salary was credited at 11:37, which she would have 
seen when she logged in to her account at 12:10; she hasnt provided any phone 
records to support the time she spent following up with the relevant parties, or 
evidence she was at a health farm; she made three faster payments during the 
afternoon; its terms dont guarantee payments will be credited at the start of 
business; and no items were returned unpaid.
- Mrs Bs account shows a payment to a health farm four days after the incident. Shes 
explained that she cant obtain confirmation of the exact visit dates due to it being 
closed for refurbishment. Ive seen no reason to doubt what Mrs B says, so 
I accept the issue occurred during a two day stay at a health farm. 
- Although none of Mrs Bs direct debits were returned unpaid due to the issue; given 
the nature of the direct debits due that day (which included her mortgage), I accept 
this matter caused her some distress and inconvenience. Whilst I appreciate Mrs B 
hasnt provided phone records, I consider it more likely than not, she contacted or 
tried to contact the relevant parties  to understand the issue and limit its impact.
- I also dont doubt Mrs B suffered further upset due to all this ongoing whilst she was 
meant to be relaxing at a health farm  which Mrs B says cost £180 per day. In my 
opinion, it follows that the situation would have affected Mrs Bs enjoyment of the 
health farm until she had seen her salary had been credited and the direct debits 
paid. I dont consider the on-line faster payments Mrs B went on to make in the 
afternoon, whilst at the health farm, to be of any relevance to the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered due to the text she received in the morning.
- Im not persuaded £56 fairly reflects the above circumstances or the impact on 
Mrs B. Overall, Im more persuaded £206 is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require TSB Bank plc to compensate Mrs B £206 in total. If £56 was previously paid, this 
amount should be deducted from the settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman