DRN-4384168
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt contact him to verify three fraudulent 
transactions.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
On 23 June 2023 Mr H complained to Lloyds about three fraudulent transactions which 
debited his credit card account on 18 June 2023, 20 June 2023, and 20 June 2023. Lloyds 
refunded the transactions to his account between 22 June 2023 and 23 June 2023, but Mr H 
wasnt satisfied because he felt the fraud could have been avoided if Lloyds had contacted 
him to verify the transactions.
In his complaint to Lloyds, Mr H said he was unhappy that fraudsters were able to debit the 
funds from his account and that it ought to have contacted him to verify the transactions. He 
said he wanted Lloyds to change its systems so the account couldnt be debited in the future 
without secure text verification.
Lloyds responded to the complaint on 28 June 2023. It explained its fraud procedures are in 
place to protect customers and it acknowledged his concern around how the fraudsters 
could have obtained his account details. It said it is unable to identify how fraudsters get hold 
of card information explaining that there are many different methods and techniques as well 
as the potential of hacking a merchant that previously held card information. It said it 
monitors accounts and contacts customers when things look out of character and while it 
cant always identify fraudulent transactions, it can guarantee securing the card and 
investigating with a view to refunding the transactions.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained that he had lost 
confidence in Lloyds' security protection and that it failed to use its Strong Customer 
Authentication (SCA) system to verify the fraudulent transactions. He said he wanted 
Lloyds to explain why it didnt use the SCA system and to explain how it proposes to prevent 
similar fraud in the future.
Lloyds further commented that its fraud detection systems are robust and meet industry 
standards. It assured Mr H that it continually monitors accounts for potentially fraudulent 
activity but its not always possible to identify fraud, or how fraudsters have obtained card 
details.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Lloyds had 
credited the fraudulent transactions to Mr Hs account immediately and that it had explained 
there was no way to identify how fraudsters got his card information. She noted Mr H had 
made an undisputed payment of £149.99 on 9 June 2023, so she didnt think the fraudulent 
transactions were suspicious or unusual when compared to the usual spending on the 
account. She explained that banks have obligations to be alert to instances of fraud but 
specific details of how those systems work cant be publicly shared as such information 
would be useful to potential fraudsters. 
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He has argued that on 
9 June 2023, he was paying an established payee which was easily identified on his credit 
card statement.
He believes our investigators comments around it not being possible to share details of how 
banks fraud systems operate support the status quo of how banks treat their customers and 
he has commented that she didnt investigate why Lloyds didnt use the SCA system to 
check the two new payees. He disputes that Lloyds credited the disputed transactions to his 
account immediately and he maintains the fraudulent transactions could have been avoided 
if Lloyds had used its SCA system.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Theres no dispute that three fraudulent transactions were debited from Mr Hs Lloyds credit 
card account between 18 June 2023 and 20 June 2023 and that those transactions were 
refunded to Mr H when he reported them. Our investigator commented that Lloyds refunded 
the transactions immediately, but Mr H has pointed out that it took several days for Lloyds to 
reimburse him. The refunds were processed between 22 June 2023 and 23 June 2023 and 
so I accept the refunds didnt happen immediately. But Im satisfied Lloyds accepted the 
transactions were fraudulent and that it refunded the payments within a reasonable time.
I understand Mr H is concerned about how fraudsters had access to his credit card details, 
but Lloyds has explained that its not always possible for banks to identify how fraudulent 
transactions have happened, and Im satisfied thats reasonable. 
The main crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he is unhappy that fraudsters were able to debit 
funds from his account and he feels this could have been avoided if Lloyds had contacted 
him either by phone or text message to verify the payments before they were processed.
I understand he feels strongly that in not contacting him to verify the transactions, Lloyds 
failed in its duty to protect him from financial harm, but Lloyds has explained that it monitors 
accounts and contacts customers when things look out of character and Im satisfied that 
explanation is reasonable. Lloyds has accepted the three transactions were fraudulent and 
refunded them to Mr H's account, so I dont need to look at the way the payments were 
made or investigate why it didnt use the SCA system to check the two new payees. 
Mr H has said he wants Lloyds to change its systems so that his account cant be debited 
without SCA in the future and that details of how banks fraud systems operate should be 
questioned. My role here is to look at what happened in Mr Hs complaint and not to review 
Lloydss processes generally. I dont dispute that the fraudulent transactions might have 
been avoided by Lloyds using its SCA system but cant tell Lloyds how to operate Mr Hs account and it would be the Financial Conduct Authority to investigate Lloyds business 
practices and procedures more generally.
I know Mr H has strong feelings about what happened and will be disappointed with my 
conclusions here but for the reasons Ive outline, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman