DRN-3304499
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited caused damage to his UPVC window frames 
when they repaired a cast iron soil vent pipe under his Homeserve emergency repair policy.
Homeserve administer the policy, which is underwritten by Aviva. But for ease of reference, I 
will only refer to Aviva throughout my decision.
What happened
In November 2020, an engineer visited Mr Ss home to repair a cast iron soil vent pipe. Mr S 
said that when the engineer was sawing the pipe, hot metal filings became embedded into 
the UPVC frames. Around a month later, Mr S noticed stains on some of his UPVC window 
and door frames near to where the pipe had been cut. So he contacted Aviva. 
Mr S told this service that his windows and doors are around 12-15 years old. The back of 
his property faces south. 
Aviva agreed to send a contractor to clean and polish the affected frames in February 2021. 
They also awarded £50 for the inconvenience caused.  
But a few months later, Mr S said hed noticed the stains had come back. So he contacted 
Aviva in June 2021 to report the issue. He felt that the contractors had removed the UV 
protection from the UVPC. And that theyd gone yellow because the contractor had taken it 
down too far.
Aviva arranged for a contractor to investigate in August 2021. They said that their contractor 
confirmed to them that the original work theyd done in February 2021 had brought the 
frames back to their original condition. And said that when hed returned in August 2021 it 
appeared that the frames had been brushed with some substance that had caused further 
staining. The contractor had also noticed that a frame that hadn't been previously repaired 
was showing similar staining. In his report to Aviva, the contractor told them that some 
further repair work had been carried out, but not all. Based on what the contractor had said, 
Aviva didnt agree to pay for further repair work to be carried out.
Mr S complained again to Aviva. He said hed not used any sort of substance on his frames. 
In their final response letter of October 2021, Aviva said they didnt accept liability for the 
additional damage caused after theyd had the frames repaired. 
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator felt it should be upheld.  
He noted that it didnt appear to be in dispute that the initial staining had been caused by the 
work done to the soil vent pipe. And considered that it was more likely than not that the 
ongoing problem with the staining was a result of the work carried out by Avivas engineer 
and contractor. To put things right, our investigator recommended that Aviva should arrange 
for all the affected frames to be cleaned and the staining removed. 
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator. They shared photos of the frames that showed a 
frame with the same yellow stain as the originally damaged ones that they said hadnt been 
initially damaged or repaired by them. They said their contractor had told them the new 
staining wasnt connected to the work hed previously completed. And felt that as their 
contractor was an expert in the field they could safely rely on his advice. Aviva also noted 
that Mr S hadnt provided any expert evidence to dispute that of their contractor.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this case came to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 January 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I know this will disappoint Mr S. I disagree with 
our investigators conclusion as I consider its more likely than not that Avivas contractor 
would have completed the repair work in August 2021 if hed felt that the original staining 
had returned. But that he stopped work and asked Aviva to consider what hed noticed as he 
felt that he had evidence that the staining wasnt connected to the original issue. Ill explain 
my reasoning further.
I do agree with our investigator that I cant say for certain why staining appeared on some 
frames which werent originally cleaned. And I also agree that without conclusive evidence 
either way, I need to decide on the balance of probability what most likely caused the 
staining.
Mr S told this service that the original staining had affected the back door, the small kitchen 
window, the large kitchen window, the large conservatory window and the conservatory 
doors leading out on to patio. It had also affected the sills above. He said that the contractor 
who cleaned and polished the affected UPVC frames in February 2021 used the same cloth 
to wipe down some sills which hadn't been stained. He felt there must have been a chemical 
on the cloth which then caused staining to some more window frames and sills which hadn't 
been affected previously. Mr S said he hadnt used any chemicals to clean the frames 
himself. He noted that if he had, he wouldve cleaned all the frames. And that this would've 
more than likely resulted in all the frames being stained, which isn't the case. 
Mr S said that when the same contractor whod carried out the February 2021 repair work 
returned  in August 2021, he cleaned one frame again before telling Mr S that he wouldn't 
clean any more frames as he believed the staining had been caused by a new issue. But Mr 
S said that the frame which was polished in August 2021 is now showing stains again. 
Aviva said that their contractor didnt cause the staining. And that the fact that there is a 
frame showing staining that they never even touched shows that the August 2021 staining 
isnt connected to the initial issue. They also noted that their contractor told them after the 
second visit: The original job was to repair the UPVC window frames that had rust marks 
caused by a still saw when cutting metal, throwing hot shards at the UPVC.  I polished the 
UPVC back to its original condition. When I returned today the windows appear to have been 
brushed with some substance that has caused further staining. The occupier is claiming this 
has been caused by us, but if you look at our before and after pictures when we left the 
window frames were as good as new. Aviva felt they could rely on his advice, as the 
contractor is an expert in this field. Aviva also noted that no opposing expert evidence had 
been provided.
When the contractor attended Mr Ss home in February 2021, he noted the cause of the 
damage. He was able to repair the affected frames to Mr Ss satisfaction at that time. But 
when the contractor returned in August 2021, he stopped the repairs as he felt that the 
staining had been caused by a different issue. He reported his concerns to Aviva. Aviva then declined to accept responsibility for the second staining. 
Ive carefully considered what both Aviva and Mr S have said. And reviewed the photos and 
information theyve provided. Having done so, Im not persuaded that the stains were caused 
by the contractor completing the original repairs incorrectly (taking it down to far) or by the 
contractor using a dirty cloth to wipe a frame that didnt need repair. I say this because the 
contractor did work like this all the time. He was a specialist who knew what treatments to 
use on window frames. So Im not persuaded that he wouldve used incorrect chemicals for 
the job in hand. Or that he wouldve cleaned away more of the frame than was necessary. I 
also consider that the contractor wouldve just got on with the job in August 2021 if hed had 
reason to believe that the original staining had returned. 
I acknowledge that Mr S said he didnt brush the frames with anything. And that he considers 
that the contractor who cleaned the frames removed the UV protection. I also acknowledge 
that Mr S thinks its possible that some metal filings are still embedded in the frames. And 
that this couldve caused the staining to reappear. It may be that either of these possibilities 
are in fact the case. I also note that there is a possibility that the staining is a natural part of 
the ageing process, given the age and position of the stained frames. But, given the 
evidence of staining to a frame that wasnt initially repaired, on balance of probabilities Im 
more persuaded that Avivas decision to decline to accept responsibility for the second 
staining was fair and reasonable. Therefore I dont consider that Aviva should do anything 
more.
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva agreed with my findings and had nothing further to add.
Mr S was very disappointed with the outcome. He said that the photos didn't do justice to the 
staining, which he believes was caused by the metal filings. Mr S feels that Aviva should 
arrange for an independent company to come out and look at the frames. He also 
questioned why the upstairs windows werent showing signs of staining if itd been caused 
as a natural part of the ageing process.  
Mr S said he felt that it was wrong for me to come to a decision without having a had second 
opinion from an independent company. And felt that this would solve the problem once and 
for all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr Ss position is that the current staining is a direct result of the metal 
filings. As such, I understand why hed like an independent review of his window frames. But 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
ask Aviva to pay for such a review. This is because Im satisfied that the contractor who 
completed the repair work originally, and who returned to assess the new staining, is a 
specialist in his field. So Ive no reason to consider that the information he provided was 
incorrect. As our investigator noted, Mr S couldve arranged for that independent review 
himself. 
I also note Mr Ss comment about there being no staining on the upstairs windows. And that 
therefore he doesnt agree that the age or position of the windows caused the staining. My 
role isnt to decide what caused the staining. Its to consider whether Aviva have acted fairly 
and reasonably under the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that they have. 
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman