DRN-3713697
The complaint
Ms G complains about how Revolut Ltd handled her chargeback claim for a faulty car.
What happened
In December 2021, Ms G used her debit card on her Revolut Ltd (Revolut) account to 
make payments of £200 and £5,545 to buy a second-hand car. 
Ms G contacted Revolut a few months later to raise chargeback claims for these two 
payments. She said that the car was faulty and should not have been sold to her as a result. 
Revolut put forward a chargeback claim for both transactions. The claim for £200 was not 
defended by the merchant and was re-credited back to Ms Gs account. However, the claim 
for £5,545 was defended by the merchant who said that the sales invoice clearly stated that 
the car was sold with no warranty and was sold as a part exchange clearance on a spares 
and repairs basis. 
Ms G says she contacted Revolut for an update on her claim and it was at that point she was 
told it hadnt been successful. Ms G subsequently complained to Revolut about the outcome 
of the claim and that they hadnt told her about this so wasnt able to provide further 
evidence as to why her claim should succeed. 
Revolut didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint saying, in summary, that the merchant had provided 
a valid defence to the chargeback claim of £5,545. 
Ms G didnt agree and complained to us. Our investigator looked into things and said that 
Revolut hadnt made an error as they had followed the chargeback scheme requirements as 
required. Ms G disagreed and pointed out that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 allows her to 
reject the car. She also mentioned that the merchant wasnt allowed to sell the car as sold 
as seen. 
Ms G asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms G isnt satisfied with the car that she paid for. Shes explained that the law 
is on her side and shes entitled to reject the car.
I accept that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 gives a consumer rights against a seller. 
However, Revolut isnt obliged to help Ms G enforce her rights under this Act in the same 
way a court might. The only way Revolut could have helped Ms G is through the chargeback 
process and its important to note that what the Consumer Right Act 2015 requires and what 
is required under the chargeback process are two different and separate things. So, I will be 
looking at whether Revolut did anything wrong in the way that they handled the chargeback 
claims. 
what is a chargeback?
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
What this means here is that Revolut can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant that the 
consumer paid for. But the chargeback process doesnt give the consumer legal rights and it 
isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response 
to the request the bank submits. 
There first must be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. And Id 
consider it to be good practice for Revolut to raise a chargeback if it has a good chance of 
being successful. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card schemes rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for Revolut  or me  to 
decide whether Ms G should be allowed to reject the car and get her money back or for it to 
be repaired at no cost to her. Revolut should raise the appropriate chargeback and consider 
whether any filed defence complies with the relevant chargeback rules. From what Ive seen, 
thats what Revolut likely did in respect of the claim for £5,545. Ill explain why. 
As Ive mentioned, Revolut raised two chargebacks for Ms G. Im unclear exactly what 
reason code Revolut used for this. The most appropriate one would likely have been the 
reason code goods not as described or defective. However, I think it very likely that the 
merchants defence to the claim for £5,545 would still have been presented in the same way, 
even if that reason code wasnt used (and should have). I say this as their defence refers to 
the car as being sold as seen without warranty which effectively means that it denied any 
liability for the condition of the car. 
I note that the chargeback for £200 was refunded back to Ms Gs account. So I can 
understand why Ms G thinks that other claim should also have been refunded because it 
was all to do ultimately with one transaction, which was the purchase of the car. 
However, the claim for £200 remained refunded because the merchant didnt reply to that 
particular claim. That doesnt mean the claim was successful. It remained refunded because 
of a lack of defence from the merchant. That was a decision made by the merchant for 
whatever reason it decided. As the merchant provided a defence to the claim for £5,545, the 
same justification didnt apply. And the merchants defence was enough to mean the 
chargeback for that particular claim didnt succeed. 
Where the merchant challenges a chargeback, a bank doesnt have to carry out a detailed 
investigation into what actually happened to decide which party deserves the money. In fact, 
most banks wont take a chargeback any further if its defended. In this case, Revolut 
decided not to take the dispute any further because they didnt think it had a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding. And I cant say that Revolut made any mistake or acted incorrectly 
by making that decision. 
I realise that Ms G feels that Revolut didnt act reasonably as she had to contact them for an 
update on the chargeback claim and it was only at that point that she was told it hadnt been 
successful. Ms G also says that she wasnt given a chance to provide any further evidence 
to Revolut about her claim. I dont though think that Ms G would be in any different position 
because of this. Ive seen no reason bearing in mind how the chargeback process works 
why Revolut should have taken the matter further. As Ive said, the merchant provided a 
defence and a further challenge to that would I think likely have resulted in it being defended again. 
I do recognise Ms Gs strength of feeling about all thats happened here. And I have no 
doubt that this has been a very stressful experience for her as shes ended up with a car that 
she cant use and for which shes paid a large sum of money. But I cant fairly and 
reasonably ask Revolut to return the money to Ms G in circumstances where the chargeback 
hasnt succeeded. 
While I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms G, for the reasons given above, I 
do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman