DRN-3771384
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about a second charge loan he has with Nemo Personal Finance Limited 
trading as Nemo Personal Finance. He has said that an unfair relationship exists between 
him and Nemo as it hasnt administered his loan correctly or sent out the correct information 
and notifications. In addition, Nemo didnt give him a Covid-19 payment deferral in 2020.
What happened
Mr P arranged the loan with Nemo in May 2008 over a term of 15 years. There were periodic 
issues with payments almost from the outset, with the direct debit failing and card payments 
needing to be made. However, as this happened within a day or two of the due date, it 
doesnt appear to have affected the account balances until late 2011, when the length of 
time between the due date and payment resulted in small amounts of additional interest 
being charged and unpaid direct debit fees being applied. 
The quarterly statements from this point on detailed the additional simple interest that was 
being charged each month and the unpaid direct debit fees that had been applied. These 
amounts were reflected by increases to the loan balance. In addition, Nemo sent Mr P letters 
about adding an unpaid direct debit charge to the account at the times it did so. It was 
confirmed that additional interest would accrue on the charges after 28 days if Mr P chose 
not to pay them.
In May 2012 Mr Ps direct debit date was changed, which meant that no payment was 
collected in May 2012, and he had to make a larger payment in June 2012. Again the direct 
debit for this payment bounced, and Mr P had to make the payment by card.
On 1 February 2019 Mr Ps direct debit failed to collect the monthly payment due. Nemo 
wrote to him on 4 February 2019 telling him this. It offered him assistance if he was in 
financial difficulties and set out the potential consequences of the payment not being made. 
This included that a missed or late payment could be reported on his credit file and that while 
the payment was outstanding, additional interest would be charged. It was also confirmed 
that a returned direct debit fee was going to be added to the account.
On 21 March 2019 Nemo wrote to Mr P again, as the payment for that month had also been 
missed; the second in a row. Again Nemo asked Mr P to call it so that it could see if there 
was anything it could do to help. He was also reminded that a charge was added to the 
account when a direct debit failed and that additional interest was accruing. Further 
payments were missed and correspondence was issued throughout about the arrears and 
the consequences of them.
In April 2020, June 2020 and September 2020 Nemo discussed Mr Ps situation with him. 
Nemos notes dont detail that a payment deferral was discussed. However, in 
February 2021 it was mentioned, in that Mr P told Nemo he thought hed had a payment 
deferral for six months. He was told that this was not the case, as he had already been in 
arrears at the time the scheme was announced so he hadnt been eligible. 
Nemo responded to the complaint in its letter of 16 March 2022. It didnt accept that it hadnt 
told Mr P about the arrears on his account. It was confirmed that the arrears had started in 
February 2019. Nemo confirmed that it had written to him four days later about the arrears 
and explained that additional interest would be charged which would affect the overall 
balance of the account. It then set out some of the further letters sent to Mr P, and confirmed 
that in total it had sent him 31 documents that included information about the arrears. 
In relation to the payment deferral in 2020, Nemo confirmed that when the scheme had first 
been announced it had not been thought that it applied to accounts already in arrears, as 
such he hadnt been eligible. However, when that was changed, Nemo said that it should 
have proactively contacted Mr H and, as it didnt do so, it credited his account with £100 
compensation. Nemo also confirmed that it would, if Mr P wanted it to, apply a backdated 
period of payment deferrals, but it warned him that it would place the account in a worse 
position. Nemo confirmed that it was required to report accurate data to credit reference 
agencies, which is what it had done, and even if a payment deferral had been applied to the 
account, it would still have reported the existing arrears. 
Mr P remained unhappy and he referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
He was satisfied that Mr P had been notified of missed payments, the charges applied and 
the additional interest that resulted. He was also satisfied that the interest had been applied 
in line with the mortgage terms and conditions. In relation to the matter of the Covid-19 
payment deferral, he considered that the compensation Nemo offered was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He maintained that his mortgage had been 
in arrears since 2012 when hed missed two payments. The investigator provided Mr P with 
evidence from that time that not only was he told about the missed payments, the charge 
applied, and the change in the payment date with the explanation of what that meant. He 
highlighted the payments missed had been paid within the calendar month they were due, 
and so the mortgage had not been considered to be in arrears. He was also satisfied that 
Nemo had satisfactorily made Mr P aware of the situation as it was happening. As such, the 
investigator didnt change his conclusions.
Mr P responded by highlighting that no payment had been made in May 2012 and so he 
considered that the arrears started at that point. He then reiterated his thoughts about what 
that meant Nemo should have done, that it had not complied with the requirements of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, and what that should mean for his mortgage account. He asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first consider the matter of Mr P being denied a payment deferral. Nemo has already 
accepted that once the scheme guidance clarified that it included customers that were 
already in arrears, it should have proactively approached Mr P. As such, I dont need to 
decide if a mistake was made. Nemo said in its complaint response that it could 
retrospectively apply a payment deferral if that was what Mr P wanted. I consider that this 
was a reasonable offer in the circumstances. Mr P hasnt taken up the offer, so it would 
appear that he doesnt want to pursue that option. Nemo paid £100 compensation for its 
mistake. Mr P hasnt commented on the amount of the compensation and having considered 
the situation, I consider the sum was appropriate.Mr Ps argument in this complaint can be summarised as Nemo didnt comply with the 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and so no interest should have been charged on 
the loan since that failure, which he believes was in 2012. 
Mr P is adamant that he has been in arrears since 2012. It is correct that his direct debit 
bounced several times that year, but on each occasion he was told that itd happened and 
he made up the payment within the calendar month. So while he would have been 
considered to have made his payments late, that doesnt put him into arrears. As for the fact 
that there wasnt a payment made in May 2012, that is true, but that doesnt mean that a 
payment was missed. As was explained to Mr P at the time, because he was moving his 
payment date, the next payment was due in June 2012 and it was for a higher amount, 
because it was effectively the payment for May and the period from the old payment date to 
the new one. The letter Mr P was sent at that time explained what changing the date meant 
for his payments and set out the amount he had to pay in June 2012 as a consequence.  It is 
clear that Mr P knew about this at the time as there is a record of him having at least two 
conversations about it with Nemo  before and after it happened  and he raised a complaint 
about the change at the time too.  I am satisfied that Mr Ps account has not been in arrears 
since 2012. 
I am also satisfied that Mr P was made aware of the unpaid direct debit charges that were 
added to the account in 2012, and the additional interest that hes been paying because of 
the charges and late payments. Not only was he sent letters about the charges, but they 
were also documented in the statements from the time, and the additional interest thats 
been charged since has also been detailed in the statements since 2012. I can only find that 
Nemo kept Mr P up to date with what was happening with his account. I am also satisfied 
that all payments made to the account were credited as they should have been, which is 
shown in the altering balance throughout.
As for when the account did go into arrears in 2019, again Nemo told Mr P about this and it 
is clear from the notes of the discussions he had with it thereafter, that he was aware of the 
arrears. Having reviewed the documentation Nemo provided us with, I am again satisfied 
that it wrote to him telling him about the arrears, set out the potential consequences of the 
account being in arrears and kept him up to date with the situation thereafter.  As such, I 
cant agree that Nemo didnt do what it should have when the arrears on the account actually 
started in 2019 or thereafter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
7 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman