DRN-3167681
The complaint
Mr R complained that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans 
irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr R with a loan as follows:
Date 
takenAmount 
receivedTerm Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
payableDate repaid
2/09/2016 £2,000 24 months £122.14 £2,931.36 outstanding
When Mr R complained to Likely Loans it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and she didnt think that 
Likely Loans had done anything wrong when it provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained 
why she was recommending that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.   
Mr R disagreed with our adjudicators view. Through his representative, he mainly said that 
Likely Loans ought to have increased its checks as the loan was for debt consolidation and it 
failed to take properly into account information it saw on Mr Rs bank statement showing 
gambling spending. Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to 
me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
I've independently reviewed all the available information, including what Mr R said in 
response to our adjudicators view. Having done so, Ive come to the same overall view as 
our adjudicator and I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Likely Loans gathered some information from Mr R about his income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan. It checked his pay by looking at information on a bank statement he 
provided and also checked Mr Rs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. 
The record of the credit checks Likely Loans carried out shows that Mr R wasnt involved in 
any sort of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active 
county court judgements registered. His total debt was shown as being around £1,200. All 
this tended to suggest that Mr R seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he 
had a serious debt problem and I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Rs credit 
checks was excessive having regard to his income. So I think our adjudicator was correct in 
saying that there isnt enough to fairly say that Likely Loans shouldve realised it needed to 
find out more before lending or that it should have refused the loan application altogether. 
I think its worth mentioning that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it 
sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and 
it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and 
short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any 
differences if Mr R feels that the credit checks Likely Loans obtained didnt give a full picture. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said about the evidence of his spending on 
gambling that Likely Loans was able to see on the bank statements he provided. I think its 
fair to say that it would be irresponsible to lend to a borrower if it was clear the loan would be 
used to fund an out of control gambling habit. But I dont think the evidence Likely Loans saw 
was enough to make it think Mr R was spending significantly on gambling compared to the 
amount of his weekly take home pay. To my mind, there wasnt anything that suggested this 
spending was causing him money problems. I say this because neither the number of 
transactions nor the amounts seen were particularly excessive and Mr Rs bank account 
didnt seem to be under particular stress. He wasnt going overdrawn for instance. So I dont 
think this was a reason not to lend.
I also havent seen enough to be able to say that the amount of debt he had, or how he was 
managing it, should have led Likely Loans to decline his loan application. This is because 
Mr R had requested this loan to consolidate his existing debt and it appeared that the loan 
would have covered what he owed. I think in these circumstances Likely Loans was 
reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested Mr R was borrowing specifically to help 
him manage his finances more responsibly  and it looked like he ought to be able to afford 
to do that on the figures it worked out. 
I cant fairly say in this situation that Likely Loans is responsible for adding to Mr Rs debt 
problems if he didnt use the loan for its stated purpose. I think the scale of his debt at the 
time compared to the value of the loan means that he could have used the loan to help him 
improve his financial situation.
To sum up, I dont think it was unreasonable for Likely Loans to lend here  especially as 
there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr R wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. The loan appeared to be affordable looking at Mr Rs 
income and expenditure. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Likely Loans to probe any more 
deeply into Mr Rs finances or ask Mr R to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told the lender (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances. 
So I cant fairly say that Likely Loans did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr R. 
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this is a disappointing 
outcome for Mr R but hope setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman