DRN-2048085
The complaint
Mr F complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F made a claim on his home insurance policy after returning from holiday to find water 
ingress had caused damage inside his property. 
AXA investigated the claim and instructed a surveyor to look at the damage.
The surveyor said there was no evidence of any external damage which could be 
contributed to a single storm event, and thered been no storm conditions on or around the 
date of loss. The surveyor concluded there was evidence the damage resulted from rain 
water ingress which had been ongoing over a period of time. He also said there was 
evidence of damage which had been previously painted over.
Using this information AXA turned down the claim saying the damage had been caused by 
gradual deterioration over a period of time. 
Mr F was unhappy with this saying hed not previously had a problem in that area. He said 
hed immediately tried to paint over the damage after returning from his holiday in the hope 
of avoiding the need to make a claim. Mr F believes his effort has been mistaken for pre-
existing damage and that the surveyor has got it wrong.
AXA reviewed Mr Fs claim, but said their decision remained unchanged, so he brought his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He was persuaded AXA acted 
reasonably when considering the findings of the report and saying the damage was caused 
gradually over a period of time. This meant that the claim wasnt covered as the exclusion 
applied. 
Mr F disagreed saying the damage was caused by a one-off event, so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to tell Mr F its clear there is damage to his property which has no doubt 
caused a great deal of upset, and theres a cost to repair it. What remains in dispute is how 
and when the damage occurred. But its also important to say that my role isnt to re-
underwrite the claim, rather to decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably when 
applying the policy terms to their claim.
Insurance policies cant and dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide cover for under a policy. They are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events they dont want to cover. Here the policy doesnt cover damage caused 
by wear and tear or deterioration, nor loss or damage that happens gradually over time. AXA 
has relied upon this exclusion, as well as the lack of storm conditions, when deciding not to 
pay the claim.
Mr F says there was significant rainfall prior to him making the claim. And that it was this 
one-off event which caused his property to be damaged.
I can see that AXA initially looked at the possibility of storm damage being the cause. When 
considering storm damage an insurer should investigate three things:
- were there storm conditions at the time?
- is the damage of a type consistent with that caused by a storm?
- was the storm the main cause of the damage?
AXA say, whilst high winds were noted, the weather conditions at the time didn't constitute a 
storm. Mr Fs policy defines a storm as, Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots 
(55mph), or Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, or Snow to a depth of at 
least one foot (30 cms) in 24 hours, or Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard 
surfaces or breaks glass.
Mr F was away from his property on holiday prior to making the claim, so the date its 
claimed the damage occurred cannot be pinpointed to an exact day. To account for this our 
investigator looked at weather data for all of August 2019 and agreed that the policy terms 
weren't met for a storm at any point. Ive looked at that data and it doesnt record storm 
conditions meeting AXAs definition, so as the answer to the first question is no, I think AXA 
acted fairly when not considering Mr Fs claim as storm damage any further, however, the 
lack of storm conditions isn't the only reason his claim was turned down.
AXA instructed a surveyor's report on the damage. 
The surveyor inspected the property, took photos and prepared a report. It was their opinion 
that rain water was entering Mr Fs property over a period of time from an overflow of the 
gulley to the neighbours property and the central valley. The surveyor identified cracking 
and bowing to plaster work and water stains on the carpet which they said could not be 
attributed to a one-off event. The surveyor also identified damage which in their opinion had 
been previously painted over.
AXA applied the policy terms to the claim. They said because of the issues highlighted by 
the surveyor, the main cause of the damage wasnt due to a storm or a one-off event. AXA 
said the damage occurred gradually over time. This type of damage is excluded under the 
policy.
Having looked at the report, and all of the information available, Im satisfied AXA considered 
the evidence in a reasonable way. Im also happy that AXA made a reasonable assumption, 
based on the evidence, that the damage occurred gradually over a period of time. 
That's not to say there wasn't a problem; there was. And I understand Mr F says there was 
no damage prior to him leaving for his holiday. He also says his initial attempt to paint over 
the damage has led to the surveyor getting it wrong. 
But the painting alone wasnt the only factor in the surveyor reaching their conclusion. And 
AXA looked at everything the surveyor said about the cause of the damage and applied the 
'gradual deterioration/maintenance' exclusion under the policy. This exclusion covers; wear 
and tear, loss or damage as a result of lack of maintenance, and loss or damage that 
happens due to depreciation.Mr F feels the exclusion hasn't been applied correctly. However, having looked at both the 
policy and the surveyor's report, I'm happy AXA acted reasonably when considering the 
evidence and applying this exclusion.
Having considered everything, I'm satisfied AXA applied the policy terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when turning down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman