DRN-3613249
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mayfayre Financial Services Ltd failed to give him suitable advice when 
it undertook a full appraisal and review of his income, expenditure and investments which 
resulted in him incurring a Lifetime Tax Allowance (LTA) charge of £31,802.
To put things right, Mr P says hes prepared to share responsibility for investigating the LTA 
and accept 50% of the charge if Mayfayre will pay a contribution towards the remainder. 
What happened
In 2002, Mr P started a Stakeholder Personal Pension Plan with a pension provider I will 
refer to as S (and for ease of reference, Ill refer to his S pension). The S pension plan did 
not include LTA protection. 
In January 2019, Mr P transferred his business from his previous financial advisor to 
Mayfayre. 
Mr P had an option of taking up to 25% of his S pension, potentially tax free. In early 2021, 
shortly before his 75th birthday, Mr P took his 25% tax free cash allowance (TFC) out of his S 
pension. This resulted in S applying a Lifetime excess tax charge.
Mr P says Mayfayre wrongly advised him to continue contributing to his S pension, so 
increasing his tax liability, and also that it failed to warn him about the LTA implications when 
it recommended him to take his 25% tax free allowance before his 75th birthday. Mr P put his 
complaint to Mayfayre this way: when you took stock of all my income and investments in 
2018 you might have foreseen this excess of the LTA. I distinctly recall your advice to 
continue paying into the stakeholder pension and as recently as December you advised me 
to take the tax free lump sum on my 75th birthday.we could have avoided the tax if 
different action had been taken up to the end of April 2020
When Mr P contacted Mayfayre about this, it said the advice it gave was appropriate for his 
situation and its adviser didnt recommend making a withdrawal from his S pension incurring 
the LTA so it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr P wasnt happy with this response and so he brought his complaint to us and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint. In 
brief summary, he said the S pension plan was self-managed and did not fall into the 
portfolios under Mayfayres management so there was no obligation or requirement for 
Mayfayre to give specific and tailored advice on the plan or retirement options. And whilst 
there had been mention of taking the tax-free cash in an email exchange between Mr P and 
his adviser at Mayfayre, our investigator said this didnt constitute financial advice. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said:
the absence of a management arrangement or agency for a specific product was not 
the determining factor in deciding his complaint. 
Mayfayre carried out extensive research into (and made recommendations about) an 
alternative pension provider which demonstrates that Mayfayre fully supported Mr P 
continuing with his S pension.
Mayfayre had full knowledge of all Mr Ps pensions and this should have triggered a 
warning that Mr P might exceed the LTA at age 75. No such advice was given.
he was surprised that the investigator agreed with Mayfayre that its advisers 
endorsement of Mr Ps understanding that he had to take a lump sum from the 
stakeholder pension was more a statement of agreement rather than provision of 
financial advice. 
Mr P said he had spoken to other finance professionals who all agreed that a competent 
financial firm would have alerted him to the consequences of LTA assessment whether or 
not the private pension was under the management of that firm.
There has been a further exchange of correspondence between the investigator and Mr P 
but as the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr P  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for him. But having thought about everything I've seen and been 
told, Ive independently reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why I say this. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr Ps complaint is that Mayfayre ought to have 
warned him about the LTA implications associated with his S pension as part of its overall 
duty of care towards him as his financial adviser. 
Mr P said that at no time did Mayfayre mention the LTA and this meant that opportunities to 
draw down funds and mitigate the Lifetime excess charge were lost. But this isnt reason 
enough for me to uphold this complaint. 
Whilst Mayfayre was aware of Mr Ps various pensions, as shown in the Review Summary 
document dated 14th September 2020, it was recorded in a handwritten note that Mr P was 
Happy to self manage his S pension. 
It is not disputed by Mr P that he was managing his S pension and it didnt form part of the 
portfolio Mayfayre was advising him on.
I cant fairly say that it was reasonable for Mr P to have expected Mayfayre to advise him 
about his S pension when both parties understood that Mr P was managing his S pension 
himself. So, I dont find that Mayfayre failed to provide suitable advice to Mr P in relation to 
his S pension because it wasnt responsible for advising him on this product. 
And although Mr P feels that wording used in an email exchange did amount to advice to 
take the tax free sum, I dont agree.
On 10 November 2020, Mr P wrote to his advisor saying: The arrival of Mayfayre smart 
money has reminded me to remind you that I have to take my cash free sum from the above 
before 24 February 2021 . I asked for your advice ..And in support of his contention that Mayfayre gave him financial advice, Mr P relies on 
Mayfayres email response which included the following: I would certainly take all the TFC, 
then leave the remainder invested . I can make a recommendation on suitable funds
I've taken into account that Mr P told us that he believed he had to take the TFC or he would 
lose the tax free status and it was his understanding that his adviser at Mayfayre had agreed 
with him taking that course of action. Mr P said he had no other reason to take the TFC.
But to my mind, Mr Ps email simply showed he planned to take the TFC. Mayfayres 
response offers to advise Mr P on suitable investment funds if he should want any 
recommendations about what to do with the TFC he said hed be taking. Other comments 
included in this email exchange were unrelated to financial matters and the language was 
chatty and informal. I dont think Mr P could reasonably have understood the adviser saying 
I would certainly take all the TFC .. in this context to be a formal recommendation from 
Mayfayre to Mr P, not least because Mr P had experience of financial reviews which he 
would have known involved up to date fact finds being undertaken and formal suitability 
reasons being provided in support of any recommendations.  
For all these reasons, I havent seen enough overall to uphold Mr Ps complaint that failings 
on the part of Mayfayre when it was managing his investment portfolio resulted in him 
incurring a Lifetime excess tax charge as a result of taking cash out of his S pension. I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr P hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Mayfayre Financial Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman