DRN-3909335
The complaint
Mr L complains about advice he was given by Alexanders to transfer out of a defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme (DBS).
What happened
Mr L met with Alexanders in 1991 to discuss his pension arrangements. At the time, he was 
a member of his employers DBS. Alexanders recommended Mr L transfer this to a personal 
pension (PP), and he took this advice.
In 1999, Mr L was sent a letter by Alexanders inviting him to be part of the industry wide 
pension review which had been instigated by the then regulator. The review was designed to 
review pension advice given between set dates to see if it was suitable advice or not. Mr L 
accepted the choice of having his pension reviewed. 
Alexanders wrote to Mr L twice in 2002 asking him to complete a questionnaire so that it 
could review the pension advice. Mr L didnt respond so Alexanders completed the review 
using the information it already held about him. Alexanders said it found that the advice to 
Mr L was compliant and that it had passed a financial viability test meaning that his PP 
would likely not be less than if hed stayed in the DBS. Alexanders said it wrote to Mr L 
confirming this, but it isnt able to provide a copy of this. 
Mr L says he didnt receive any details of a review carried out at this time. Mr L started taking 
benefits from his PP in 2013. 
In 2021, Mr L complained to Alexanders about the advice to transfer out of his DBS. He said 
he was now worse off in retirement than had he remained in the DBS.
Alexanders thought that the complaint had been made outside of the time limits required 
under our rules. Another Ombudsman considered this but issued a decision explaining that 
the complaint had been brought to us in time so we had the power to consider its merits.
One of our Investigators looked into the merits of Mr Ls complaint. He said he was satisfied 
that Alexanders had carried out the pension review, as required by the regulator, in 2002 
and it wasnt required to do so again. 
Mr L didnt accept this. He said Alexanders was a pushy company who had mis-sold this 
pension to him. He said he didnt know anything about any review letters sent in 2002. He 
asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to 
review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Pension Review, instigated by the then regulator, and which Mr Ls pension was 
reviewed under, was designed to be a one-off exercise. It was the regulator who told firms 
how to offer redress in a number of scenarios. And the Pension Review calculations were 
subject to supervision and sampling at the time, by the regulator. I must be clear that we 
dont offer a calculation checking service here. 
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pension Review established by the 
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions 
or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss.
The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and 
would put things right at the time. Once a business carried out a Pension Review for a 
customer, they werent required to review it again.
Mr L says he didnt receive any letters about the pension review. However, Alexanders has 
provided the form it says Mr L sent back asking for this pension advice to be reviewed. And it 
seems this was signed by Mr L. So, Im satisfied it was likely that he was at least aware that 
a review could take place. Alexanders has provided copies of two letters it sent to Mr L in 
2002 asking for more information to complete the review. Again, Mr L says he didnt receive 
them. But they appear to have been correctly addressed to Mr Ls address at the time. So, I 
think its likely they were sent to him. 
As Mr L didnt respond to the letters in 2002, Alexanders says it completed the review based 
on what it knew about him. Firms were required to keep the details from the review 
indefinitely. Unfortunately, Alexanders hasnt been able to provide us with much detail of the 
review, nor the letter it sent to Mr L following the review. But this is understandable given 
how long ago this was and the fact that Alexanders is no longer trading. Alexanders has 
explained that it used software to carry out the review which automatically generated a letter 
explaining the outcome. And its provided the record of input from this software and the 
compliance sign off sheet it completed. So, based on the limited information we do have, I 
think its more likely than not that Alexanders did complete the review and that it did show no 
loss at the time and that it wrote to Mr L setting this out. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions the regulator required firms to use in Pension Review 
calculations (for example future investment returns and annuity rates) havent been borne 
out in reality. And I do understand why Mr L feels hes worse off as a result of the advice 
from Alexanders. However, as Ive explained above, the Pension Review was designed to 
be a one-off exercise done using specific assumptions that were approved by the regulator. 
These assumptions have proven to be highly optimistic compared to what has actually 
happened. And this may mean that Mr L is receiving less than he may have in retirement 
had it not been for the advice. But this isnt something I can hold Alexanders responsible for 
now.
In summary, Im satisfied Alexanders did carry out the pension review it was required to in 
2002. And it was only required to carry this out once. Because of this, I dont think it needs to 
take any further action.
My final decision
Whilst I understand Mr L feels very strongly about this matter, and will be disappointed, my 
final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 Rob Deadman
Ombudsman