DRN-2161897
The complaint
S (a limited company) complains about how C B Hughes Limited (CBH) represented Ss 
interest in a claim on a buildings insurance policy, following a claim for subsidence.
Mr P in his capacity as Director of S brings this complaint to us.
What happened
S manage several properties which are covered by buildings insurance with an insurer 
(Insurer A). The policy was arranged by CBH as S broker. In 2017, damage was noted at 
the estate and S contacted CBH in April 2018 to raise a claim on the policy. 
CBH notified the claim to Insurer A and advised S they would provide a broad summary of 
the damage so that Insurer A would consider the claim under the policy in its entirety, rather 
than under one specific section. Insurer A instructed its own agents to investigate the claim.
There were several communications between S and CBH in which they discussed how the 
claim was progressing, and which often led to CBH contacting Insurer A to ask for updates. 
This continued throughout 2018 and into 2019. In July 2019, CBH received notification from 
Insurer A that the claim had been declined. 
The summary of S complaint about CBH concerns;
- not reporting the claim to Insurer A correctly, which has led to it being declined
- being slow to respond and not enough communication about the claim and progress. 
- Misrepresenting the claim
CBH issued its final response saying;
- It reported the claim straightaway
- It communicated regularly with the insurer
- It accepted there was some confusing communication but kept S up-to-date
- There was no misrepresentation of the claim as S own expert pointed to an issue 
with settlement of made up ground and its communication referred to subsidence, 
cause of damage and exclusions
- It accepted case management wasnt good but that was due to the insurers loss 
adjuster.
Our investigator said that some of the issues S had raised were about the actions of Insurer 
A and its agents, and so this wasnt something CBH could be held responsible for. But she 
said CBH couldve been more proactive in contacting Insurer A when S asked for updates. 
And they couldve managed Ss expectations better when they logged the claim. The 
investigator thought CBH should pay S £175 for the inconvenience caused.
CBH agreed with the investigators findings. S disagreed and didnt feel the amount of 
compensation was sufficient, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CBHs role was not claims management  that was down to insurer A and its duty was to 
handle the claim promptly and fairly. Im unable to comment on Insurer As actions here. 
Ive seen no evidence that shows CBH misrepresented the claim to Insurer A or that this 
affected the outcome of the claim. CBH contextualised the subsidence cover exclusions in 
its communication along with possible exclusions and Im not persuaded it was a 
misrepresentation. Insurer A still went on to consider the claim in full after CBH sent details 
of the claim. So, Im not persuaded the way CBH reported the claim to Insurer A had an 
impact on the way the claim was investigated by the insurer. 
CBH accepts there was some confusion about who was managing the claim and what S 
could expect from it as the broker. CBH have also said they could have managed Ss 
expectations better by letting them know what their role was, and that there was a possibility 
the claim could be declined. And there were points when CBH shouldve been more 
proactive in chasing Insurer A for an update on the claim. As a result, S had to contact CBH 
to find out how the claim was progressing.
Ive considered the impact this all had on S and the fairest way this can be put right. S has 
brought the complaint to us as a business, so Im limited to considering inconvenience 
caused to S as a limited company. 
As the claim was on-going for some time, there has been a large amount of correspondence 
between S and CBH. I cant hold CBH responsible for any potential delays due to Insurer As 
actions. But I agree CBH couldve minimised the inconvenience to S during this time by 
providing more efficient updates or being quicker to chase Insurer A; and being clearer about 
its role and potential outcomes. The consequence was that S spent more time chasing CBH 
for updates than was reasonable in the circumstances. 
CBH has agreed to pay £175 to reflect the inconvenience caused and having carefully 
considered the circumstances, Im satisfied this amount is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require C B Hughes Limited to pay S £175 for the inconvenience 
caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman