DRN-1374800
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to send his credit card statements to 
the correct address after he changed his address details on-line.  
What happened
Mr K changed his address details on-line with Nationwide. But his next credit card statement 
went to his old address.
After he contacted them to try to resolve the issue, he didn't receive credit card statements 
for the next six months or so.
Mr K complained to Nationwide. He was concerned about where his statements - and 
personal data - might be going.
Nationwide told Mr K that they outsource credit card administration. Mr K's change of 
address with Nationwide should have been updated with their provider as part of a batch 
update, but wasn't. So the first statement went to his old address.
After they ensured his address records were updated in May 2019, when Mr K reported the 
issue, his credit card statements had been suppressed and so weren't issued. Nationwide 
couldn't explain why this had happened.
Nationwide accepted there had been two errors - the failure of the batch address update and 
the suppression of Mr K's statements. They offered him £175 compensation in total for his 
trouble and upset during the nine months or so it took to get things back on track.
Mr K wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought Nationwide hadn't done anything wrong - they'd admitted to and explained their 
errors and offered reasonable compensation.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He says he's not 
interested in further compensation, but simply wants a full explanation of how the errors 
occurred and what Nationwide are doing to prevent any recurrence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K's problem had now been fully resolved. His address details are correct on the relevant 
systems and he's receiving credit card statements as he would expect.
Mr K didn't suffer any financial loss as a result of not receiving his statements. He could see 
his account on-line and his monthly payments were set up by direct transfer. The one statement that went astray went to his mother's address. And he retrieved it from 
there. There's no suggestion it fell into the wrong hands or that any personal data was 
inappropriately disclosed to any third party.
Mr K has had to contact Nationwide several times to get this matter resolved - over a lengthy 
period of time. And they've admitted he received poor service on at least one call where he 
was left on hold for a long time. I can understand his frustration. And his concern when it 
was still unclear why he wasn't getting his statements.
However, I'm satisfied £175 is fair and reasonable compensation for that degree of trouble 
and upset. And it would appear Mr K is happy with that too - he's told us he's not interested 
in further compensation.
Mr K wants an explanation and an assurance that Nationwide have addressed any systems 
or process issues that led to this problem.
I think that's to Mr K's credit. He doesn't want other customers to experience what he's been 
through. But I have to ask Mr K to understand the role we play and the purpose of our 
organisation.
We're here to look at individual complaints and to ensure individual customers have been 
treated fairly and reasonably. And where businesses have made mistakes, we ask them to 
put things right for that particular customer.
Nationwide have put things right for Mr K. And they've compensated him for the trouble and 
upset he experienced. I think they've also given him enough of an explanation to assure him 
they understand what went wrong for him and to show they've resolved the issue so that it 
won't recur.    
It's not our role to dictate to Nationwide how they organise their systems and processes 
generally. If Mr K thinks there's an inherent defect in Nationwide's methods which may lead 
to more general problems, he can report that to the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). They do have powers to require businesses to change their systems and 
processes. But that's their role, not ours.
In any case, I think Nationwide have given as much of an explanation to Mr K as they can. 
They've identified a failure in the batch process for updating addresses as the root cause of 
the problem. And they know - and have told Mr K - that there was an error in suppressing to 
his credit card statements in May 2019.
May 2019 was when Mr K attempted to resolve the issue with Nationwide's administration 
provider. Understandably, he hung up when they left him on hold to seek manager approval 
for a change of address over the phone - which they wouldn't normally accept.
So, in May they took an unverified call attempting to change the address on Mr K's account - 
which was terminated part-way through. It could be argued that it would have been a 
sensible precaution at that point to suppress mailed paper statements on an account where 
the customer in any case had on-line access to his account details. 
Mr K has told us he's worried about what's been happening to the suppressed statements. 
His assumption appears to be that these will be printed onto paper, but not sent to him.
But I'm satisfied these statements aren't being printed out and then sent elsewhere and/or 
left unsecured. Usually, suppression means the statements aren't printed at all. There's no evidence to suggest Mr K's statements were printed and sent out to a random incorrect 
address or disposed of insecurely.
In summary, I agree with our investigator. Nationwide have accepted and explained their 
errors and compensated Mr K fairly and reasonably. I'm not going to ask them to do anything 
more in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr K's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman