DRN-2547113
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard reduced her credit card 
limit.
What happened
Mrs A received a text message from Barclaycard telling her that her credit limit had been 
reduced on her credit card. The credit limit was reduced by £250 so she contacted them to 
discuss this. Mrs A pointed out she never missed a payment or had a late payment so didnt 
understand why they would reduce her credit limit.  
Barclaycard said that the credit limit was lowered due to a high level of borrowing and low 
repayments. Mrs A disputed this and brought the complaint to our service, highlighting she 
had also received poor customer service from them. 
Mrs A said that by reducing the credit limit this had affected her overall credit score because 
it impacted her credit utilisation percentage. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They concluded that Barclaycard had acted in 
line with the terms and conditions (specifically section 6 and 12) of the account. And as 
Barclaycard could not locate the calls, she couldnt comment on the customer service aspect 
of the complaint. 
The investigator sympathised with the credit utilisation issue but added that as a result of the 
lower credit limit this would also mean Mrs A would also have lower credit exposure on her 
credit file.
Mrs A wanted her complaint to be looked at by an Ombudsman as she felt five of the nine 
payments highlighted by the investigator were higher than the contractual minimum 
payment. She also found it suspicious that none of the three phone call recordings could be 
found and again highlighted the impact the credit limit reduction could have on her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard was entitled to review the credit limit and reduce it. Theres provision for them to 
do that that in the account terms and conditions. I dont think theres anything inherently 
unfair in why they made that decision.  They felt, there was a history of a high balance 
versus low repayments.  I appreciate that Mrs A makes more than the contractual minimum 
payment, but her statement balance has not significantly decreased over time. I can 
understand why a lender may assess this as a risk and so on that basis I dont think it 
contradicts section 12 of the terms and conditions or a banks duty to lend responsibly. 
I have noted what Mrs A says happened in the phone calls. While I can understand her 
strength of feeling, Barclaycard have provided me evidence of searches of calls made using 
her mobile number to the department she would have called on the dates in question. 
Theres no call recording data on these dates. So Im satisfied that the calls havent been 
recorded. 
While its a shame theres no access to these calls, Ive viewed the call notes provided. Ive 
read that on 28 September 2020 the handler had said that it was only a £250 decrease 
When Mrs A pointed out this would make a difference the call handler apologised for the 
remark as she didnt want it to sound irrelevant.  On the last call, the notes do show that the 
call handler said that the credit limit wouldnt be increased when Mrs A asked for the 
complaint to be escalated. The call handler noted that she was trying to manage Mrs As 
expectations. There are no notes of the first call where Mrs A reported background noise. 
But from the call notes overall Ive not seen enough to say Mrs A was treated unfairly. I say 
this as the first call handler immediately apologised for the £250 comment which is what I 
would expect in the circumstances and what the second call handler said wasnt inaccurate.
Mrs A says that by reducing her credit limit this has had an impact on her credit score. This 
might be the case.  But given Barclaycard are entitled to reduce and even withdraw a credit 
limit, I dont think they have any responsibly for this. I think the investigator made a valid 
point in that this can also be viewed as a positive factor. 
Considering everything, I dont think Barclaycard have treated Mrs A unfairly. So it follows 
that I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman