DRN-3147079
The complaint
Miss H says UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss H took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit on 17 April 2013. It was for £5,000 over 36
months. The monthly repayment was £239.97 and the total repayable was £8,638.92. I
understand there remains an outstanding balance.
Miss H says UK Credit failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said UK Credits checks
were not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt
sustainably affordable for Miss H.
UK Credit disagreed with this assessment saying in summary, it didnt think the evidence the 
investigator had pointed to indicated financial distress. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the case it was passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The regulations, rules and guidance that were in place when UK Credit lent to Miss H 
obliged UK Credit to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss H could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss H. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss H, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Hs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Miss H before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of her income and housing costs. It asked for a recent payslip to check her declared 
income. It adjusted the income figure it used to remove her commission payments. It 
checked her credit file to understand her credit history and her existing credit commitments. 
It asked about the purpose of the loan which was to settle debts she had in a family 
members name and to clear two payday loans, with the balance going towards the purchase 
of a car. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded Miss H had sufficient monthly 
disposable income for the loan to be affordable, and that after making the repayment she 
would be left with £366 each month.
I dont think that these checks were proportionate. Miss H was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from UK Credit. She was entering into a long-term commitment
and would need to make monthly repayments for three years. Also, there were indications 
on her credit file that she had struggled with her finances previously and it knew one of the 
reason she was borrowing was to settle two payday loans. So I would expect that UK
Credit would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about
Miss Hs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. It needed to check not just 
the pounds and pence affordability but also that she could repay without borrowing further or 
suffering other adverse financial consequences. 
I have carefully considered UK Credits comments on Miss Hs historic debts, her taking out 
debt in a relatives name and her use of payday loans but in these circumstances I disagree 
that it was responsible to go ahead and lend without carrying out better checks. I think in the 
round it would have been proportionate for UK Credit to independently check the actual state 
of Miss Hs finances before agreeing the loan.
This means I need to look at what proportionate checks would most likely have shown UK
Credit and consider if it ought to have realised that there was a risk Miss H couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments.
To do this I have looked at a more detailed check of Miss Hs credit file. Miss H wasnt able 
to obtain copies of her bank statements from the time but thats understandable given the 
age of the loan.Having reviewed the more detailed credit check, I agree with the investigator that it 
evidences that it was most likely Miss H was having problems managing her money. It 
shows Miss H had taken out payday loans in February 2013, March 2013 and April 2013
So I think UK Credit ought to have realised Miss H was struggling financially and there was a 
high risk she wouldnt be able to repay this loan sustainably - that is, without borrowing 
further or suffering other adverse financial impacts. UK Credit argues this loan was to repay 
the two outstanding payday loans, but I cant see that it considered the impact on Miss Hs of 
significantly increasing her indebtedness and prolonging her reliance on high cost credit to 
do this. 
Whilst I accept most of the adverse data on her file was historic, she still had an unsettled 
Country Court Judgement. And I think its most likely that if Miss H had the level of 
disposable income the lender calculated she would have settled this. 
UK Credit argues the payday loans could have been for a large one-off purchase like a 
holiday and that Miss H had a very healthy surplus income. But it has not provided 
conclusive evidence to support these statements. Miss H has said she took out the payday 
loans as to manage her money and was in a cycle of debt. The lender did not ever review 
her actual living costs so its statement about her surplus income is, it seems, based solely 
on its assumptions. Overall, Im not satisfied that UK Credit did enough as a responsible 
lender to fully understand her financial position before concluding she could sustainably 
afford this loan. I think its reasonable to conclude that Miss Hs testimony is accurate, and 
she was using payday loans as her finances were under pressure. I note Miss H went on to 
have problems repaying the loan and asked about refinancing as early as July 2013. 
It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to give Miss H the loan. I dont find UK Credit acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss H in any other way.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Miss H to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had 
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been given to her. So she has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things right.
It should: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Miss H made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Hs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Hs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, UK 
Credit should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss H.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation to the
loan once.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Hs complaint. UK Credit Limited must put things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman