DRN-3227529
Complaint
Mrs F says that AIB Group UK Plc (trading as AIB (NI)) unfairly started refusing to process 
payments from her account, which would take her over her agreed overdraft limit. Shes said 
it had routinely allowed her to do this previously and it was unfair for it to stop doing so at 
short notice.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Fs concerns. She didnt think that AIB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Mrs F says it was unfair for AIB to refuse to process payments that would take her over her 
limit at short notice. But the terms and conditions of Mrs Fs account clearly state that Mrs F 
was required to keep her account in credit, or within any arranged overdraft. I know Mrs F 
says that AIB had routinely processed payments even though they had taken her over her 
limit previously. But this was no guarantee that it would continue doing so indefinitely. And 
Mrs F appears to have been relying on making payments from funds which hadnt been pre-
authorised.
I say this while especially mindful that each attempted payment is likely to have been treated 
as a request for an unarranged overdraft. Like our investigator, I do appreciate why Mrs F 
might have preferred AIB to continue allowing such payments to be taken from her account. 
But I wouldnt expect a bank to continue allowing a customer to continue authorising 
unauthorised overdraft payments indefinitely. Equally, as AIB hadnt committed to allowing 
such payments indefinitely, and each payment would have been its own individual request, 
Im satisfied that it wasnt required to notify Mrs F, in advance, that it wouldnt process the 
payment, or payments in question. 
I do sympathise with what Mrs F has told us and why she may feel shes had a loss of 
expectation. I can also understand why she might be unhappy with adverse information 
being recorded on her credit file and worried about the impact this will have on her. But I 
dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for AIB to continue ignoring 
Mrs Fs increasing reliance on unarranged overdrafts, or the fact that her overdraft had 
become demonstrably unsustainable for her, indefinitely. Equally, I dont think continuing to 
allow Mrs F to routinely exceed her overdraft limit would have helped her credit file either.
So overall and having considered everything. I dont think that AIB did anything wrong, or 
that it treated Mrs F unfairly. And Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. I 
realise that this will be very disappointing for Mrs F. But I hope that shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman