DRN-3070574
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) switched his 
pension investment into a cash fund without advising him resulting in poor investment 
returns over many years. He wants compensation for the lost investment return. 
What happened
Mr A took out a pension plan originally with M&G which was invested in the M&G Building 
Society Pension Fund. This fund was closed by M&G in 1997 and investments in it were 
switched to a cash fund. Prudential acquired M&G in 1999.
Mr A says he wasnt aware of this and complained to Prudential in February 2021 that he 
hadnt been advised that his fund was being switched into cash in 1997. He said this had 
caused him losses as he should have been switched into a more typical pension fund 
capable of delivering a return of about 7% p.a.. He says his fund was around £4,700 in 
1997 but would have been worth around £24,000 if it had been switched into an appropriate 
alternative. He said this had been ruinous and Prudential had effectively robbed him of 
his pension pot. He said any default action should have been in his best interests.
Prudential didnt uphold his complaint. It said investment returns werent guaranteed and that 
M&G had written to Mr A in 1997 to advise that the fund was being closed. And, that if he 
didnt contact it to instruct otherwise his pension would be switched into the cash fund. It said 
it had sent Mr A statements each year giving the value of his pension and details of where it 
was invested. It said it wasnt its responsibility to track investment returns.
Mr A asked Prudential to provide a copy of the letter from 1997. It said due to the length of 
time involved it couldnt locate a copy of this. But that the decision to use a cash fund as the 
default option was appropriate as it offered stability and mitigated risk. 
 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it. 
Our investigator said Prudential hadnt provided Mr A with any financial advice, so it wasnt 
required to assess the suitability of his pension investments. He said given the length of time 
involved it wasnt surprising Prudential didnt hold a copy of the letter about the closure of the 
fund. He said under the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) of the pension plan Prudential was 
entitled to make a legitimate business decision to make the switch in the absence of a 
response from Mr A. 
Our investigator said that the annual statements sent to Mr A provided adequate information 
for him to realise where he was invested and prompt him to take financial advice if he was 
unsure about anything. 
Mr A made a number of points:
Prudential hadnt drawn his attention to what had happened and that he wasnt 
sophisticated enough to understand that the information on the statements meant 
he was investing in cash as the word fund was misleading. He said he thought as a 
pension company, Prudential would be investing his funds in a way that was 
consistent with pension growth,
He said it wasnt a legitimate business decision to invest his pension into a 
completely dormant account for over 30 years (sic) that was demonstrably not in 
the interests of any pension saver and his pension was not invested in anything
As Mr A doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand Mr As frustration here and appreciate the potentially significant sums involved, 
but I dont think Prudential has treated him unfairly. Pension providers do close and merge 
investment funds on a regular basis and arent obliged to keep any fund open if they dont 
want to. When funds are closed the default option in the absence of a directly comparable 
alternative or instructions from the investor, is often some sort of cash fund. 
Prudential hasnt been able to provide details of the M&G Building Society Fund, given the 
time that has passed. But this type of fund was offered by many pension providers during the 
1980-90s. They were invested in deposit accounts with various building societies and so, 
were effectively cash funds. 
I disagree that a cash investment is completely dormant as Mr A has said, but agree it 
generally isnt considered a good longer-term investment. As Mr A will be aware interest 
rates have been much lower over the last fourteen years or so than they were previously. As 
M&G wasnt advising Mr A about investments, I dont think its selection of a cash alternative 
as the default fund option was unreasonable in the circumstances and it appears this was a 
similar investment to the fund being closed. 
Mr A says he didnt receive the letter telling him the fund was to be closed and I dont doubt 
that these are his honest recollections. However, I also have to consider its possible he 
simply has forgotten about receiving this letter given this happened 25 years ago. And, 
unfortunately, whilst most post is successfully delivered, not everything is. So non-delivery is 
also a possibility. I wouldnt expect Prudential to now locate copy correspondence from such 
a long time ago, but without it I appreciate I dont know for certain whether it was sent or not 
and what exactly the letter said. 
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I need to decide what I think most likely 
happened on the balance of probabilities and Ive no reason to think that the letter wasnt 
sent. I say that because when a business decides to close a fund it is usual practice to select 
a replacement and inform customers, so on balance I think its more likely than not that M&G 
did send that letter. 
As Mr A acknowledges he did receive statements each year that gave a valuation and 
detailed where his investment was held. He says he didnt understand the information 
presented, but Mr A also said that over the years he had:
seen many structural changes in the financial portfolios that I hold and have been 
faced with default actions on several occasions. On every occasion the default action 
is one that is broadly in my best interests. This does suggest that Mr A did take stock of his investment arrangements from time to 
time. And I think the modest returns being provided by the cash fund held here would have 
been apparent to him in comparison with his other investments. So, I think Mr A had 
sufficient information over the years to query what was happening if he was unsure about it.
Taking everything into account I dont think Prudential has treated Mr A unreasonably. It 
wasnt required to monitor or advise Mr A about the performance of his pension investment. 
And, I think it provided sufficient information on an ongoing basis for him to make his own 
assessment and either raise queries or take financial advice if he was unsure. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman