DRN-1557884
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a loan with Nationwide in July 1998. At the same time they bought a 
PPI policy which would have covered their loan repayments until Mrs A returned to work if 
she couldnt work due to accident or sickness, and for up to 12 months at a time if Mrs A was 
made redundant. In November that same year Mr and Mrs A consolidated their borrowing 
into another loan and, again, were sold PPI to cover the repayments if Mrs A couldnt work.
The cost of the policy was added to their loan and attracted interest.
Mr and Mrs A say they werent given a choice about taking the PPI.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs A dont dispute that they agreed to buy the PPI, but they say that they didnt 
realise it was optional. They have said they were made to take the policy. They say they 
were told in no uncertain terms that we would not get the loan unless we took out the 
insurances.
The July loan was applied for via a form they received from a branch of Nationwide. It is 
understood that Mrs A declined PPI at this point and their application was sent off to be 
processed. The following day Mrs A had telephone contact with Nationwide and the records 
that it has provided show that at this stage the PPI was sold. 
Mr and Mrs A then received a copy of the loan agreement to sign and return. Nationwide has 
provided this and I can see that the PPI is clearly shown as an optional product. 
While, understandably, there is no recording of the call now, from what this service knows of 
Nationwides practices at the time I am satisfied that Mrs A would have been made aware 
that the PPI was optional. Indeed, this would have been apparent when she initially declined 
it. Nationwide says it wasnt a condition of the loan to take the PPI and their records indicate 
this was the case. In the case of the new loan in November of the same year it is clear from Nationwides 
records that the application for the loan took place over the phone, without an application 
form being completed. I am satisfied that it is likely the same process would have been 
followed. Again, Mr and Mrs A received a copy of the agreement to sign and return which 
showed that the PPI was optional.
On balance, on the limited information I have available to me, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs 
A bought both PPI policies understanding they had a choice about them, although I 
understand why they wouldnt necessarily remember that now, over 20 years later.
Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs A a personal recommendation to buy the policy, so it 
didnt need to check it was right for them. But Nationwide did need to make sure Mr and Mrs 
A had enough information about the policy to make her own informed decision.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs A would have  as a very minimum - understood they were 
buying a policy designed to meet their loan repayments if Mrs A couldnt work. So, it was up 
to Mr and Mrs A to decide whether they needed the cover.
Its possible Mr and Mrs A didnt fully understand the finer detail about the cover. But looking 
at Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the time of sale I think the policy was suitable for Mrs A, 
so even if Mr and Mrs A had fully understood it I dont think they would have acted differently 
and not bought the policy. Mrs A was eligible for it and wasnt affected by any of the terms or 
exclusions which might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such 
as those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment. Mrs A had limited sick 
pay, but the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for much longer. 
Similarly, it would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs A received  which 
would have likely only have been a few weeks salary. 
While the cost of the policy was added to Mr and Mrs A's loan, when they consolidated their 
first loan they received a pro-rata refund of the remaining premiums which had been added 
to their first loan. 
Mrs and Mrs A have disputed some of the information about their circumstances at the time 
of taking the loans. For example, Mrs A has said that Mr A was employed at the time of 
taking the loans. However, Nationwide has provided evidence to show that Mrs A told it that 
Mr A was claiming incapacity benefit at the time of the first sale. It wouldnt have made a 
difference to Mr and Mrs As complaint even if Mr A had been working, but I think it may 
assuage some of their concerns to understand this. 
On balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs A lost out because of anything Nationwide might have 
done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint, so it follows that Nationwide Building Society 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman