DRN-3389599
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) terminated the 
hire agreement she had with them. 
Mrs B is being represented in this complaint by Dr B. But, for ease of reference, my decision 
will only refer to Mrs B.
What happened
On 16 September 2019 Mrs B was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for 36 months, with monthly rental payments of £359.66. 
Mrs B was in Ghana when, on 21 March 2020, the Ghanaian government closed the airports 
due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Mrs B was stranded in Ghana and wasnt able 
to return to the UK until August 2020.
Between March and July 2020, Mrs B only made one payment to VWFS  on 28 May 2020. 
Because of the arrears caused by the missed payments, VWFS defaulted the account, 
which was then terminated on 31 July 2020.
When Mrs B returned to the UK, she contacted VWFS and cleared some of the arrears. 
VWFS agreed to put the repossession of the car on hold while they were awaiting guidance 
from their Covid-19 team. Mrs B continued to use the car but didnt continue to make all of 
the payments. And, in February 2021, VWFS told Mrs B they would continue with the 
process to repossess the car. As I understand it, the repossession hasnt yet taken place.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mrs B didnt contact VWFS while she was in Ghana, to let them know 
what was going on. And, while being in Ghana couldve made things more difficult, the 
investigator hadnt seen anything to show that Mrs B didnt have any access to either email 
or a telephone. So, he thought Mrs B wouldve been able to let VWFS know what was 
happening.
The investigator also said that hed seen nothing to show him that Mrs B was suffering 
financial difficulties while she was in Ghana. And, because shed made the payment in May 
2020, he thought that Mrs B couldve reasonably continued to make payments to VWFS 
while she was outside of the UK. Because of this, he thought VWFS had acted reasonably 
by terminating the agreement.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had issued guidance in April 2020 which said Where 
the customer has the right to use the vehicle, firms should not take steps to terminate the 
agreement or seek to repossess the vehicle (whether by way of any requisite legal 
proceedings or otherwise) where the customer is experiencing temporary payment 
difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus and needs use of the vehicle. 
And it wasnt until 31 January 2021 that the FCA said firms could repossess vehicles. 
Given this guidance, the investigator thought VWFS had acted reasonably by waiting until 
February 2021 before continuing with repossession process. And he didnt think they needed 
to do anything more.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that there are only a few months remaining 
before the hire agreement was due to end. And she needs to keep the car so she can attend 
medical appointments. She also said that VWFS didnt exercise any patience in the middle 
of a pandemic, and they didnt come back to her after consulting with their Covid-19 team. 
Because of this, shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs B was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints 
about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mrs B signed on 2 September 2019. The terms of this 
agreement stated that Mrs B must pay the rentals  at the times stated. If you do not pay 
any rentals  by the time it is due, we can terminate this Agreement. Based on the terms 
Mrs B agreed to, Im satisfied that VWFS had the right to terminate the agreement if Mrs B 
failed to maintain payments.
From the evidence Ive seen, Mrs B didnt make the payments due for March, April, June, 
July, or August 2020. Which put her account £1,798.30 in arrears. While she paid VWFS a 
lump sum of £1,438.65 in September 2020, this didnt clear the outstanding arrears. 
Between September 2020 and January 2021, Mrs B shouldve paid a total of £1,798.30 
under the agreement, but she only paid £1,020.66. And Ive not seen anything to show me 
that Mrs B made any payments after January 2021.
Its not disputed that Mrs B was out of the UK between March and August 2020, and she 
was unable to return due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But, during this period, she made no 
attempts to contact VWFS and let them know what was happening. And, by making a 
payment on 28 May 2020, shes shown that it was still possible for her to make payments 
even though she was outside of the UK.
Given the above, Im satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably by issuing a default notice and 
terminating the agreement due to the missed payments. While Mrs Bs circumstances were 
as a result of Covid-19, VWFS were unaware of this. And I wouldnt expect them to act upon 
information they didnt have.Once VWFS were aware of whatd happened, they followed the FCA guidance and didnt 
continue with the repossession process. And, during this time, if Mrs B had brought the 
payments up to date and maintained them, then I would say that VWFS werent acting fairly 
by restarting the repossession process in February 2021. However, as she didnt do this, Im 
satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably in February 2021 by telling Mrs B they intended to 
repossess the car.
Mrs B said that VWFS didnt come back to her after consulting with their Covid-19 team. 
And, while this may have been the case, they had told her the repossession was temporally 
being put on hold. Then they advised her, a few months later, that the repossession would 
continue. So, Im satisfied that Mrs B was reasonably aware what was happening. And the 
lack of specific communication doesnt mean that repossession cant go ahead.
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B; given the above, Im 
satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably by terminating their agreement with her, and by taking 
steps to repossess the car. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman