DRN-3755528
The complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to protect her from the loss of 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
Ms W has explained that in 2021 she made the following payments to Kraken using her 
Lloyds debit card, to fund what she thought was a legitimate investment with Bitxlogic.
Transaction number Date Amount (£)
1 21 August 2021 25.70
2 03 September 2021 2,150.76
3 07 November 2021 201.83
4 13 November 2021 4,664.16
Total 7,042.45
Ms W also made a push payment of £10,000 to Payward Ltd on 16 November 2021 for the 
same purposes, but I understand Ms W fortunately recovered this payment before it was too 
late.
Ms W got in touch with Lloyds to report shed been scammed. Lloyds didnt reimburse her 
lost funds (£7,042.45). Remaining unhappy, Ms W referred her complaint about Lloyds to 
this service. As our investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for materially the same reasons. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Im sorry Ms W lost this money to a scam. But losing money like this doesnt automatically
entitle Ms W to a refund from Lloyds. It would only be fair for me to tell Lloyds to reimburse 
Ms W if I thought it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments to the scam, and/or if 
it hindered recovery of the funds. 
Prevention
I dont think Lloyds can reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Ms W lost
to this scam. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process
payments a customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations
and terms and conditions of the account, Ms W is presumed liable for the loss in the first
instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of 
good industry practice, Lloyds should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. However, there is balance to be struck: banks had (and have) 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant be involved in every transaction. And here Im satisfied the relevant payments 
 the £25.70, £2,150.76, £201.83 and £4,664.16 listed above  werent sufficiently unusual 
or uncharacteristic for me to say it was unreasonable for Lloyds to process these payment 
instructions from Ms W without first speaking to her. 
Ms Ws account was inactive between November 2020 and August 2021, and Ms W has 
pointed to this. However, she had previously, in July 2020, made a payment for £9,404.21. 
And I just dont think the size of the payments, being spread as they were, nor anything else 
about these particular payments ought to have sufficiently concerned Lloyds such that it 
ought to have been obliged to have paused the payments pending enquiries, before they 
were sent.
I understand Lloyds did speak to Ms W before allowing the later £10,000 payment through 
(the payment Ms W recovered). This is understandable given the size of this particular 
payment. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied I can say Lloyds unreasonably 
missed an opportunity to prevent the payments before this. 
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have done anything
further unless or until Ms W notified it of the scam. And even then, because these were debit
card payments, the only recourse for potential recovery of the payments would have been 
via the chargeback scheme. 
However, Ms W made the payments using her Lloyds debit card to Kraken (and not directly 
to the scammers). This means the merchant here, for chargeback purposes, would be 
Kraken (and not the scammers). Kraken legitimately provided the services intended (which 
was the purchase of cryptocurrency). The subsequent transfer of the cryptocurrency/funds 
onto the scammers would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim through Lloyds. So I dont 
think these payments were recoverable through Lloyds once they had been made. 
I realise this means Ms W is out of pocket. But I think this was ultimately caused
by the scammers here, and not Lloyds. I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to reimburse Ms W in 
circumstances where I dont think it did anything wrong, and where I think chargebacks,
if made, wouldnt have been successful in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 Neil Bridge
Ombudsman