DRN-1439611
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the fee charged by Quickly Finance Limited and how it handled his 
PPI claim. 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr S signed a letter of authority instructing Quickly Finance, trading as 
Fast Track Reclaim, to make a PPI claim on his behalf.
He said he's not happy with the fee of 20% plus VAT charged by Quickly Finance, and he 
says the VAT element wasn't fairly represented to him. He said the way they dealt with his 
change of address delayed some claims he'd made, and he feels that they should have 
done more to rectify this with his lenders. He said that he's unhappy with the work they did, 
and he says he had to do most of the work that led to the successful payout from his lender. 
He raised a number of grounds of complaint to Quickly Finance related to the service he 
says they failed to provide.
Quickly Finance upheld part of his complaint. They agreed that they should have explained 
to him that having a temporary address may cause difficulties with some lenders. They didn't 
uphold any other parts of his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into his complaint. He felt that Quickly Finance hadn't done 
anything wrong. He said he thought the fees were made reasonably clear to Mr S. He said 
the forms Mr S signed were in the format that the new rules say CMC's have to use. And he 
felt that Quickly Finance hadn't acted in breach of the rules they had to follow in terms of 
their fees.
Overall he said he felt that Quickly Finance had acted fairly and reasonably, and that 
the apology offered about the service he received when he changed address was fair.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm not upholding this complaint, for the 
same reasons as our investigator.
Mr S says that the fee wasn't properly explained to him. He says it wasn't clear that he had 
to pay VAT. He says he understands the fee due was 24% of any award, but he didn't 
realise this meant it was 20% plus VAT. He's also unhappy with how this was represented to 
him in social media advertising.The issue I have to consider is whether or not the fee was made clear to him when he asked 
Quickly Finance to act on his behalf. The fee was set out in the terms and conditions 
attached to the Letter of Authority (LoA) document he signed for each claim.
The terms and conditions include a statement on fees. It states:
Where a claim is successful, FTR will charge a contingency fee representing no more 
than 24% inc. VAT in respect of any redress/compensation/goodwill payment 
recovered on your behalf. The contingency fee of 24% inc. VAT is calculated before 
any applicable tax payment/deduction of which you are liable.
In addition to this, and as it is required to do, the terms also include explanatory examples. 
The examples show how the 20% fee is calculated, and then how the VAT is applied to the 
fee. 
Mr S says that advertising he'd seen on social media didn't fully describe the fee to him. That 
may have been the case, but Quickly Finance explained the fee to him in its terms, and 
importantly, in the manner it is required to, before he entered into the agreement with it. So 
I'm satisfied that the fee was properly explained to him before he entered into the agreement 
with them.
Mr S was also unhappy with the service provided by Quickly Finance. He said that it had lost 
his paperwork and this had caused delays. He said that it had lost the LoA he'd signed for 
one of his lenders. It looks to me that Quickly Finance required Mr S to complete a new LoA 
because he'd changed address, not because the original had been lost. It would've been 
aware that the lender wouldn't have accepted the LoA with a different address, so it asked 
him to complete another one. I don't think this was unreasonable.
He also complained that it lost an offer letter from another lender. Like our investigator, I 
accept that it took some time for Quickly Finance to receive this letter but they acted on it 
when they received it. Mr S says he lost the right to take the complaint to this organisation 
because of the delay. He had six months to make that claim from the date of the letter so he 
still had sufficient time to make the claim, or to ask Quickly Finance to do it for him.
A number of his complaint points arise from the address issue. Mr S told Quickly 
Finance that he was moving house and wanted to use his office address for correspondence 
purposes. It should have advised him that it couldn't tell his lenders that he'd changed 
address, and that he'd need to do that himself. I note that Quickly Finance apologised for 
telling him that this wouldn't be a problem. And our investigator has said that an apology is 
sufficient. I agree - this was poor advice but it is for customers to tell their lenders when there 
has been a change in circumstances.
Mr S is also unhappy that he had to answer questions from his lenders when he expected 
Quickly Finance to do all this. He said many of the lenders told him they wouldn't speak to 
Quickly Finance. He's also unhappy that the lenders made decisions without all the 
information, for example, about his savings.
I know he feels he had to spend a lot of his time answering questions. But the lenders should 
have dealt with the Quickly Finance direct, as it was representing him. So I can't hold it 
responsible for the lender's failure to do so.
Mr S is clearly unhappy with the service he feels he's received from Quickly Finance. I can 
see that he's had to spend a lot of his time dealing with this matter, and that's time he wasn't 
expecting to spend. Some of the issues he's raised arise from him having a temporary 
address, but I don't think Quickly Finance's poor advice on that issue warrants more than the apology it has already given. I've explained why I don't think that the Quickly Finance is 
responsible for the other complaint points he's raised, so I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman