DRN-3791993
The complaint
Mrs F complains about a secured loan which was taken out fraudulently in her name with 
Step One Finance Limited. She says Step One shouldnt have granted the loan as it didnt 
do proper checks on the application, and it gave her false and misleading information when 
she complained.
What happened
Mrs F and her partner shared a property and had a joint first charge mortgage with another 
lender. In February 2020, an application was made in Mrs Fs and her partners names to 
Step One, for a second charge loan. The application was made through a third party broker.
Step One granted a loan of £98,855. Most of the proceeds were used to pay off unsecured 
debts in Mrs Fs and her partners names. 
Mrs F says she didnt know anything about the loan until October 2021, when she opened a 
letter about a debt she knew nothing about. She asked her partner to sort the matter out, 
while Mrs F prioritised dealing with various credit card accounts which had also been taken 
out fraudulently and which she had just found out about. 
In January 2022, Mrs F reported the fraud to Step One, saying her partner had taken out the 
loan fraudulently, without her knowledge or consent.
Step One investigated. While its investigation was ongoing, Mrs F referred this complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Step One then told the Financial Ombudsman Service that further evidence had come to 
light, and on reviewing that, it accepted Mrs Fs partner had perpetrated a fraud and received 
the loan money. So it had removed any records of the loan from Mrs Fs credit file, and 
would remove Mrs F from its own records of the loan and send her an apology for the time it 
had taken to investigate. It wouldnt hold Mrs F liable for the loan debt and would seek 
repayment from her partner alone.  
Our Investigator thought Step One had made a reasonable proposal to settle the complaint, 
and didnt recommend it do any more. 
Mrs F didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. She still thought Step 
One had been negligent in granting the loan and said it had caused her a significant amount 
of stress during its investigation, during the course of which it had provided false and 
misleading information. She was also concerned that Step Ones charge on the property was 
still in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Step One has now accepted that Mrs F didnt apply for the loan and has said it wont hold 
her responsible for the resulting debt. Mrs F has confirmed the loan has been removed from 
her credit file. She is, however, still very unhappy with what she considers a lack of due 
diligence in granting the loan in the first place and how Step One has handled the fraud. She 
feels she has been treated very poorly. 
Step One says that, amongst other things, it checked Mrs Fs identity before granting the 
loan, received a copy of her driving licence, received copies of her payslips to verify her 
income, and received a signed and witnessed mortgage deed. It also says it phoned both 
applicants to check they were happy with the loan terms, and paid the loan proceeds directly 
to other lenders to repay a number of unsecured debts in the names of both Mrs F and her 
partner. Those debts in Mrs Fs name subsequently turned out to have been taken 
fraudulently by her partner as well, but Step One wasnt to know that at the time. 
Mrs F believes this process was flawed, and Step One should have asked for bank 
statements and contacted the witness on the deed. I disagree, and in any event its clear that 
Mrs Fs partner was able to obtain documents to support the application. They shared a 
home, and Mrs F was often away. Besides that, the loan application was made by a broker, 
so Step One didnt deal with Mrs Fs partner directly. The broker gave advice and a 
recommendation about the loan, although they didnt meet Mrs Fs partner in person; the 
application wasnt done face to face.  
Overall, given the checks it did and the information it had available to it, I dont think I can 
fairly conclude that Step One should necessarily have done any more or suspected fraud at 
the outset.
Mrs F is also very unhappy with the way Step One went about its investigation. I have noted 
her concerns, and its not clear why Step One has a record of a call from Mrs F which Mrs F 
couldnt have made, for example. Its not, however, for me to audit Step Ones record-
keeping, and I accept that fraud such as this  particularly one involving such a significant 
amount of money  can take time to investigate and may involve asking difficult questions.  
Step One stopped legal action to recover the debt when Mrs F told it about the fraud. Since 
Mrs F referred her complaint to us, it has also accepted that she didnt apply for the loan and 
agreed not to hold her liable for it. Im satisfied from what it has told the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and from the evidence it has provided that it reached that conclusion 
when new evidence came to light during its investigation; it didnt make that decision on the 
basis of information it already had or delay in making it. Since that evidence relates to a third 
party, however, its not appropriate for me to set out here what that evidence is. 
Mrs F has pointed out that even though Step One has agreed not to hold her liable for the 
loan debt, it still holds a legal charge over her property. She says she paid the deposit for the 
property with the help of her family, and her partner didnt contribute. So, if the property were 
ever to be sold, her partner wouldnt be entitled to half of the sale proceeds. There is also 
another mortgage on the property, secured by a first charge, and that mortgage is in both 
Mrs Fs and her partners names legitimately.
I understand that Mrs F and her partner own the property as tenants in common. What isnt 
clear, though, is what shares they would each be entitled to should the property be sold. 
Nonetheless, the property belongs to Mrs Fs partner as well as Mrs F  and theres no 
dispute that Mrs Fs partner applied for the loan and used the money from it. 
Step One has said it is looking into its options to retain its interest in the property, whilst 
accepting that it will only seek repayment from Mrs Fs partner. It continues to hold her 
partner liable for the loan, and wants to retain its security for her partners debt over property her partner has an interest in. I think thats a reasonable position for it to take. Its agreed 
that its security only relates to Mrs Fs partners interest in the property. Its not for Step One 
 or for me  to decide the share of the property Mrs F and her partner are each entitled to. 
Thats a matter theyll have to resolve between them  or if necessary, seek legal advice 
about. But Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Step One to retain its charge over the 
property so that it can recover the debt from Mrs Fs partners beneficial interest in it. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider it unreasonable for Step One to want to protect its position in 
terms of recovering the debt as far as possible. So Im not going to require it to remove its 
charge now, but I would expect it to keep Mrs F informed of its progress.  
I know that Mrs F thinks she deserves a payment of compensation in the light of Step Ones 
handling of this matter. However, having considered the evidence and arguments very 
carefully and in all the circumstances, I consider the offer Step One has made  that is, not 
to hold Mrs F liable for the loan, to remove the loan from her credit file, and to send her an 
apology for the time taken  goes far enough.
My final decision
My final decision is that Step One Finance Limiteds offer not to hold Mrs F responsible for 
the loan, to remove it from her credit file, and to write to her with an apology is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. It should now do so if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman