DRN-4041602
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) removed his overdraft facility without 
any warning when he was of the understanding that as long as he kept to the arrangement 
to repay no action would be taken.
What happened
Mr M had a bank account with Santander with an arranged overdraft of £2,000. In November 
2021 Mr Ms account entered collections as he was over his agreed overdraft limit. An 
arrangement to repay this was agreed over a 15 month period, which would bring the 
balance of Mr Ms account back into the agreed overdraft limit.
Following an automated review by Santander in March 2022 Mr Ms overdraft was removed 
without notice.
Mr M complained to Santander about this as he couldnt afford to repay the outstanding 
overdraft balance in full and is unhappy with the affect this has had on his credit file.
Santander says while it would usually aim to give a customer 30 days notice of its intention 
to change or repay an overdraft it can do so without any advance notification. And as such 
no error had been made.   
Mr M was dis-satisfied by this and brought his complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly as overdrafts can be reduced 
or withdrawn at any time and that Santander had acted within its terms and conditions and 
wasnt required to give notice.  
Mr M disagreed. He says not only did Santander fail to give notice that it was going to 
remove his overdraft facility but also failed to tell him once this was done leaving him with 
adverse markers on his credit report when he couldve agreed a payment plan and avoided 
this.  And so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Following a review Santander removed Mr Ms overdraft facility in March 2022. Mr M is 
unhappy that this was done without giving him any advance notice.
Section 7.4 of Santanders general conditions for all overdrafts allow for it to change an 
arranged overdraft limit at any time including requiring the repayment of the whole amount 
and that it may do so without advanced notice where it would be reasonable for it to do so.
So as the conditions of Mr Ms account allow Santander to remove Mr Ms overdraft facility 
without notice - although I can appreciate Mr Ms unhappiness at this - I cant say Santander 
made an error here. And even if Mr M was given notice, I dont think it wouldve made a 
difference to the outcome as Santander had made the decision to remove the overdraft 
facility regardless of whether notice was given or not. 
I also understand Mr M was under the impression that provided he stuck to his arrangement 
that was agreed in December 2021 that no further action would be taken regarding his 
overdraft. But this was an arrangement to repay the amount outstanding above his agreed 
overdraft limit and was separate from Santanders decision to remove the overdraft facility 
and request repayment of it in full. Again, the conditions of the account allow Santander to 
request the repayment the overdraft in full at any time. So I dont think that Santander 
reneged on any agreement here.
Mr M says if hed known his overdraft had been removed, he wouldve made an 
arrangement to pay back Santander. But from the internal call notes Ive seen from August 
2022 Mr M couldnt afford the payments necessary to clear the outstanding debt, so no 
formal arrangement was agreed. So I dont think it wouldve made a material difference if or 
when Mr M was told the overdraft had been removed as he wasnt in a position at the time 
the overdraft was removed to pay it back. 
Finally, I understand Mr M is unhappy about the information recorded on his credit file. But 
Santander does have a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs 
to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. And from what I 
understand, what Santander has reported - that Mr M is in an arrangement - is an accurate 
reflection of Mr Ms management of his account.
 
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as Santander has not made an error or done 
anything wrong.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman