DRN-3556769
The complaint
Mr C complains Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) failed to support him during his time 
of financial difficulty. He also complains they discriminated against him due to his disability. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mr C entered into a 41 month conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn for a used car. He was required to pay monthly instalments of £219.
In July 2021, Mr C asked for a two month payment holiday. He told Moneybarn due to ill 
health he was currently out of work meaning he was on a reduced income and he was due 
to have an operation. 
Moneybarn offered a one month payment holiday and said they would review the situation at 
the end of that month. Mr C was unhappy with this and asked to speak to a manager 
however one wasnt available at the time. 
In August 2021, Mr C said Julys payment was taken by direct debit which meant his account 
entered into an unarranged overdraft. He also said he had to take out payday loans to pay 
this instalment and others while he was out of work. Moneybarn offered to refund Julys 
payment and upon proof of evidence, they would consider refunding the overdraft charges. 
Mr C said these refunds were never received. 
There were several calls between Mr C and Moneybarn about the situation, he asked to 
speak to managers on more than one occasion but he said he never received callbacks. He 
also said Moneybarns call agents were rude, unprofessional, they failed to put in place 
reasonable adjustments and they had discriminated against him due to his disability. Mr C 
complained. 
Moneybarn said they were willing to help Mr C in his time of financial difficulty as they 
offered one month payment holiday with a review at the end. They said managers had 
attempted to contact him and their staff acted professionally. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr C referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They found Moneybarn had acted fairly, it wasnt 
clear what reasonable adjustments Mr C required or whether that wouldve made a material 
difference to the support Moneybarn had offered. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
At this point, I wish to say Im sorry to hear about Mr Cs ill health. I appreciate this wouldve 
been a difficult time for him. Hes said he suffers from a number of health conditions and he 
has told us hes disabled. He believes during his communication with Moneybarn, theyve 
discriminated against him due to his disability.  
I need to stress that our service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal free 
alternative to the courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out within the Act. However, I can consider whether the business has acted in 
a fair and reasonable manner and in order to do that, I will take a number of things into 
consideration including the Equality Act 2010.
Mr C complains Moneybarn failed to support him during his time of financial difficulty. In 
circumstances of financial hardship, the CONC guidance which can be found in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook says the financial business should treat the consumer with 
forbearance and due consideration. Theres not a defined list as to what steps should be 
taken but it may include measures such as payment holidays, temporarily freezing the 
interest, agreeing to accept reduced payments, etc.
Ive considered what Mr C has said and the evidence provided by Moneybarn. I understand 
there were a number of calls between them and ideally I wouldve been provided with a copy 
of the same however due to the passage of time, Moneybarn said these calls are no longer 
available. 
In its absence, Ive reviewed Moneybarns contact notes which documents their 
communication with Mr C. I can see during the call in July 2021 when Mr C requested a two 
month payment holiday, Moneybarn offered one month and said they would review the 
situation at the end of that period. This meant Mr C wouldnt be required to pay that month 
and after that, they would review the situation. I find Moneybarn acted fairly in offering this. I 
say this because at the end of the month, they would be able to take into account Mr Cs 
circumstances at that point in time (as things may have changed) to determine what support 
to provide. There was no indication or suggestion after that month Moneybarn wouldnt 
continue to offer further support. At the review, if Mr C remained in financial difficulty they 
may have offered the same support such as a payment holiday or something different to 
best assist him. So I cant agree with Mr Cs comments that Moneybarn refused to offer him 
any support, I find that they did and they acted reasonably in doing so. 
Mr C was unhappy with this and asked to speak to a manager. The contact notes show an 
outbound call was attempted the next day by a manager however it would appear they were 
unable to speak to Mr C. During further conversations with Moneybarn the same offer of one 
month payment holiday was offered to Mr C. As it was clear he wasnt happy and wanted to 
complain, I can understand why the payment holiday wasnt put in place as it would be 
necessary for both parties to agree to the same. 
From my understanding, Julys payment was collected by direct debit. Mr C said this caused 
his account to go into an unarranged overdraft and he had no choice but to take out a 
payday loan to meet the payment. Im sorry to hear this was the situation Mr C found himself 
in. But for the reasons outlined above, I can understand why the payment holiday wasnt set 
up so I find Moneybarn acted fairly and in line with the terms in collecting that contractual 
payment. 
However once Mr C brought this to Moneybarns attention, a manager agreed to refund 
Julys payment and reimburse the overdraft charges he had incurred upon proof of evidence. 
However the contact notes indicate Mr C declined that offer. There is also no indication the requested evidence about the charges was provided to Moneybarn. On that basis, I cant 
say they acted unfairly by not refunding these payments. 
Mr C said he feels Moneybarn has discriminated against him due to his disability. He has 
outlined his medical conditions to our service. I wont list in its entirety as to how his 
conditions impact him but it includes in stressful situations, his speech is impacted and the 
volume of his voice increases which comes across as shouting. Due to his short term 
memory loss, he finds call backs difficult given their unexpected nature. In light of the same, 
Mr C said he may need information to be explained more thoroughly, information repeated 
and he may need more time to understand what is being said.
I would like to thank Mr C for his honesty and openness about his medical conditions and 
how it impacts his interactions with others, especially in situations he considers stressful, 
which clearly this situation was for him. However I must bear in mind at the time of the earlier 
calls with Moneybarn, they didnt know the extent of the same but they did correctly identify 
Mr C was vulnerable. Based on their internal process, they offered to refer him to their 
specialist team who would be best placed to support him and given the circumstances, I 
consider that a fair course of action. Mr C told our service he cant recall the conversation 
about this, he wouldve spoken to them but he may not have agreed as it required a call 
back. While I acknowledge what Mr C has said about his short term memory loss and the 
difficulty in handling unexpected calls, as the team wasnt available to speak to him 
immediately, I dont believe a call back was unreasonable. Perhaps a mutually convenient 
time couldve been arranged for the call. In relation to Moneybarns offer to refund Julys 
payment and charges, Mr C said he cant remember this but its likely he declined it, if thats 
the case I cant say Moneybarn acted unfairly. 
Mr C has also complained about the level of service received from Moneybarn. According to 
him, they failed to raise a complaint when he requested it, they didnt call him back and the 
call agents were rude to him. 
Evidence shows a complaint was raised on the same day Mr C complained. While I accept 
managers werent available to speak to him immediately following his requests, it was 
explained to him that a call back could be arranged within 48 hours and I can see on more 
than one occasion, managers did attempt to call him and he did manage to speak to one on 
4 August 2021. Based on what Ive seen, it would appear the conversations between Mr C 
and Moneybarn werent easy over that period of time and on more than one occasion, calls 
were ended by him. On balance, Im satisfied Moneybarns level of service was professional 
and acceptable. 
While Ive carefully taken into consideration Mr Cs health conditions and its impact, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont find Moneybarn treated him unfairly based on the 
information they knew about his medical conditions at the time. I hope that it helps Mr C to 
know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied Moneybarn acted fairly in its attempts to support Mr C in his time of 
financial difficulty. I find they acted reasonably by taking the direct debit payment in July 
2021 given Mr C didnt agree to the payment holiday. Despite this, theyve offered to refund 
that payment and reimburse him for the overdraft charges but this was declined by Mr C. 
Taking everything into account, I also dont find Moneybarn treated Mr C unfairly due to his 
disability. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman