DRN-2874901
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs P complain that OneSavings Bank Plc (trading as Kent Reliance) caused 
delays to their mortgage applications. They say they paid legal fees and valuation fees even 
though the mortgage offers included free legals and valuations. Mr J and Mrs P ask for 
these costs to be refunded. Mrs P has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs P owned a freehold building and intended to divide it into five leasehold flats. 
In mid-2018 they applied to Kent Reliance through a broker for buy to let mortgages for three 
of the flats. 
Mrs P says shed understood that they had to instruct solicitors to create new leases for 
each flat. But that Kent Reliances solicitors would register the leases at completion, which 
would create the title numbers. 
There were significant delays which Mrs P says were caused by Kent Reliance and its 
solicitors. She says the mortgage offers kept expiring, and she had to pay for valuations to 
be redone at a cost of about £900. She says her legal costs were about £3,000. It was a 
year before the mortgages completed in mid-2019. 
Our investigator said there was confusion about how the titles would be created, and who 
was responsible. But Kent Reliance had made it clear early in the process (in May 2018) that 
its own solicitors couldnt undertake this work. The free legals only covered basic 
conveyancing and that was all Kent Reliances solicitor would do. 
Mrs P and Mr J didnt agree. Mrs P said shed been misled by Kent Reliance about what its 
solicitors would do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kent Reliance issued three mortgage offers in May 2018. At this point, the property owned 
by Mr J and Mrs P was in a single freehold title. Legal work was needed to create five 
separate leasehold titles and a management company. There was a charge on the property 
in favour of a different lender.
Theres no dispute that all parties were aware of the legal work that was needed. Whats in 
dispute is whether Kent Reliance misled Mrs P about the work its solicitor would do. 
Mrs P says her broker explained the situation to Kent Reliance before they applied for the 
mortgages and it was aware of what they expected. Theres no record of this call  possibly 
because it pre-dated the applications. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call between Kent Reliance and Mrs Ps broker in May 2018. 
Kent Reliance made it clear that its solicitors would only undertake basic work under the 
free legals. The broker said Mrs P had instructed her own solicitors to undertake the work 
on the leases.
The mortgage offers were issued in late August 2018. These said the free legals would 
only cover straightforward conveyancing and if the legal work required more than this, the 
borrower would be responsible for the additional costs. 
There are copies of emails between Mrs P and her broker which suggest they expected Kent 
Reliance to cover the basic legal costs, and Mrs P would pay the extra costs for Kent 
Reliances solicitor to split the title and register the new leasehold titles. If this was the case, 
Id expect there to be some evidence that the solicitors were instructed to do this. I asked 
Mrs P about this. She provided copies of emails from late 2018, which suggest she expected 
Kent Reliances solicitors to undertake the work. But she didnt provide evidence that shed 
instructed the solicitors to do the work and agreed to pay for it. 
There was an existing charge on the property which would remain in place until the lender 
was repaid at completion. Mrs P says this meant the leasehold titles couldnt be split and 
registered until completion, and this would have to be done by Kent Reliances solicitors. But 
the solicitors hadnt agreed to do this. Kent Reliance says its solicitors told Mrs P that if the 
title was to be split theyd take no further action until this was complete. Copies of emails 
from its solicitors support this. 
It does seem that discussions in late 2018 between the two firms of solicitors acting for Kent 
Reliance and Mrs P werent productive. However, I havent seen evidence that this was due 
to an error by Kent Reliance. Kent Reliance looked at ways to move the application forward, 
such as using the same solicitors as Mrs P. It seems this wasnt successful. But based on 
the available evidence I dont think Kent Reliance misled Mrs P about whether its solicitors 
would undertake the work to split the property title and register the leasehold titles.
New valuations were carried out in February 2019 and the mortgage offers were extended. 
Nothing more seems to have happened until April 2019. Neither side can explain the reason 
for this delay. 
In May 2019 Mrs Ps broker applied for new mortgage products on her behalf: these didnt 
include free legals. Mrs Ps broker and solicitor asked Kent Reliance to instruct Mrs Ps 
solicitor to act on its behalf as well as Mrs P, so the same solicitor could deal with all the 
work. Kent Reliance agreed. New mortgage offers were issued in June 2019 and the 
mortgages completed.
Is it fair to require Kent Reliance to refund legal costs and valuation fees?
The mortgage products which Mrs P and Mr J took out in mid-2019 didnt include free 
legals. I dont think they were entitled under the terms of the mortgages to free legals, or to 
a contribution to their legal costs from Kent Reliance. 
These mortgages did take a long time to complete, and new valuations were required. 
However, it would only be fair to require Kent Reliance to compensate Mr J and Mrs P if it 
made errors which caused these delays. Based on the available evidence I dont think this is 
the case.
Mrs Ps broker said Kent Reliance shouldnt have offered free legals on a transaction that 
wasnt straightforward. Matters might have moved more smoothly if one set of solicitors had been responsible for all of the work to create and register the leases throughout. Most likely 
though free legals were part of the product that the broker recommended. It was always 
open for Mrs P to offer to pay for one set of solicitors to do all of the work  which is 
ultimately what happened.
I dont think its fair to say that Kent Reliance should have asked its solicitors to undertake 
extra work related to the changes to the property title as part of the free legals. This wasnt 
standard conveyancing. 
If there was an intention that the solicitors acting for Kent Reliance would do some of the 
work related to the changes to the property title theyd have had to be instructed to do this 
with Mrs P agreeing to pay the additional costs. Theres no evidence this happened.  
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Kent Reliance misled Mr J and Mrs P about 
the work its solicitors would undertake. If problems with the legal work to create the 
leaseholds delayed the mortgage completing I dont think Kent Reliances was responsible 
for this. And so I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Mr J 
and Mrs P for these delays or any related or additional costs.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman