DRN-3956042
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) have 
handled a claim he made on his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S experienced a loss of electricity at all of the sockets at his home in the kitchen and 
ground floor. He called British Gas to request an engineer visit the property to investigate the 
issue.  The engineer who was sent to his property said that he needed to contact his 
electricity supplier as the electricity reading was too high. Mr S did that but told us the 
electricity supplier confirmed everything was fine. British Gas engineer returned to the 
property again the next day and advised the propertys 3-phase meter needed to be 
changed to a 1-phase meter. 
Mr S says he was being passed back and forth between British Gas engineers and 
customer services, so decided to pay £245 for an engineer, privately, to provide a temporary 
connection to the kitchen appliances. He then contacted British Gas engineer again about 
the issue and was told to get a breaker fixed to the main meter which would convert the 3-
phase to 1-phase. Mr S said he had to borrow money from a friend to get that work done, 
after which time he again called British Gas and requested another visit by the engineer. 
Having looked again at the wiring issues, the engineer said that the problem wasnt covered 
by his insurance policy, and Mr S was sent a quotation of £760.40 from British Gas for the 
additional work to be done. Again, he borrowed money from a friend and had the work done, 
but by a different company.
In addition to the £1,440 hes had to pay to rectify the issues, Mr S said British Gas handling 
of the claim has caused a lot of discomfort to his family and stress and anxiety to him. Mr S 
provided copies of extracts from British Gas booklet that he believes shows the work they 
refused to cover, should have been covered by the policy. He also added that although 
British Gas was aware of the discomfit his family was living with, they didnt offer any 
alternative accommodation which he believed was covered by the policy.
Mr S complained to British Gas and in November 2022, received their final response letter 
explaining that the works hed claimed for, werent covered by his policy as they were 
upgrade, not repair works. However, they offered him £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience hed suffered. Mr S said that after so much pain, suffering, distress and 
financial loss that offer was nothing but an atrocious joke, and he brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint and issued a view not upholding the complaint 
on 20 January 2023. She explained that British Gas had acted in line with the policy terms 
and conditions, and fairly in the circumstances.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision on the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons. I will explain why. 
When considering Mr S complaint Ive first looked at the policy terms and conditions to see 
whether the issues hes claimed for, ought to have been covered by the policy.
Page 14 of the policy terms explains that Whats covered includes: all repairs to the mains 
electrical system and wiring on your property. However, in the General exclusions section 
on page 31, it says: Pre-existing faults Your products dont include cover for any faults or 
design faults that..existed when you first took out the product. In addition, under the 
heading: Making any improvements, it says Your product only includes repairing or 
replacing your boiler, appliance or system when it stops working properly  it doesnt include 
any improvements or upgrades, for example:..replacing electrical cables and fuse boards 
that still work. It goes on to say: Where weve told you than an improvement is necessary, 
we may not continue to make repairs on that part of your boiler, appliance or system unless 
the work has been carried out. 
British Gas explained to us that on 11 April 2022, their engineer visited the property in 
response to the call about an electrical breakdown. The engineer recorded on his job report 
that there was a 3-phase meter in situ and some wiring in the house needed upgrading.
On 12 April 2022, an engineer attended a further appointment and issued the same advice 
that the meter needed to be changed from the commercial meter that was in situ and the 
consumer unit needed to be changed as well.  
Then, on 19 April 2022, a third appointment was attended and Mr S was given a quote for 
the updating work that was required as the wiring on the 16-amp supply needed upgrading. 
Having considered the policy wording, and the information from the business regarding the 
issues Mr S had contacted them about, Im persuaded that the issues he was experiencing 
with the electricity supply and wiring werent covered by the policy. I think British Gas 
therefore acted fairly by not covering Mr S costs of replacing and upgrading his electricity 
system. A home emergency policy doesnt cover everything that might go wrong with various 
services at a property, it only covers the failures detailed in the policy terms. In this case, as 
British Gas explained, the issues existed prior to the policy being taken out, and required 
upgrade, not repair works to be done. Im therefore satisfied that the costs Mr S has claimed 
for wouldnt be covered by the policy.
British Gas did accept that the service provided fell below the level they aim to achieve and 
offered Mr S £150 to reflect the impact caused. Taking everything into account, I consider 
that this amount offered is sufficient to compensate Mr S for the inconvenience he suffered 
while his claim was ongoing. 
Lastly, with regard to Mr S claim for alternative accommodation, the only references to 
alternative accommodation being provided in the policy terms are found on page 10, in the 
section on boiler cover, and page 15 in the section on gas appliance cover. The terms say 
cover may be provided for: Costs of up to £500 for alternative accommodation and travel if 
your home is unfit to live in as a result of either your boiler catching fire or exploding, or 
your gas appliance catching fire or exploding. Given neither of these events occurred, as 
our investigator explained, British Gas wasnt required by the policy terms to offer Mr S alternative accommodation. 
Taking everything into account, I conclude that, in declining Mr S claim, British Gas have 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions, and fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. I therefore wont be requiring British Gas to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman