DRN-3325844
The complaint
Ms V is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled her request for a 
payment holiday extension on her credit card account, when her income was impacted by 
the global pandemic.
What happened
Ms V holds a credit card account with Barclays. In July 2020, she contacted Barclays for 
support as her income had been adversely affected by the impact of the global pandemic. 
Barclays agreed to defer payments on her credit card until the end of September 2020.
In October 2020, Ms V contacted Barclays again. She told them her financial situation hadnt 
improved and she wanted to apply to extend the payment holiday. Ms V had received a letter 
from Barclays about this. So, she decided to submit her application online.
After several attempts to apply for a payment holiday extension, Ms V called Barclays in 
early November 2020. Barclays offered to assist her with an online application. But when 
she heard no more, Ms V called Barclays again to complain. Various calls followed, many of 
which were disconnected. Despite this, Ms V still didnt hear whether her application had 
been accepted or receive a response to her complaint.
In January 2021, Ms V contacted this service. She wasnt happy that Barclays hadnt yet 
agreed a payment holiday or responded to her complaint. So, she asked us to investigate 
matters for her. She said her financial situation hadnt improved and she was also suffering 
from health difficulties. 
Barclays told this service they hadnt been able to complete their investigations into Ms Vs 
complaint before shed contacted this service. They couldnt find any record of Ms V 
successfully completing a payment holiday extension application. They also said that due to 
Ms Vs financial circumstances, a further payment holiday wouldnt have been appropriate, 
so theyd agreed payment holds on Ms Vs account in the meantime. 
Ms V remained unhappy that shed not received a response from Barclays. So, one of our 
adjudicators investigated her complaint further. Our adjudicator didnt think Barclays needed 
to take any further action regarding her complaint. And although Barclays hadnt formally 
responded to her, their response to this service together with the information provided, didnt 
suggest theyd done anything wrong.
Ms V didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. So, her complaint has been passed to me 
to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. The FCA said their 
guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or reasonably expect to 
experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months.
Ms V first contacted Barclays in July 2020. Her employer had placed her on furlough in 
March 2020. Although shed continued to maintain her credit card payments, she was now 
struggling financially and needed support. Barclays agreed a three-month payment deferral 
under the FCAs special guidance.
Problems appear to have arisen when Ms V contacted Barclays again on 15 October 2020. 
Barclays records show that Ms V wanted to apply for an extension to the payment deferral. 
Barclays have explained that extension applications can only be made online. Ms V was 
sent a letter which provided details of how to do this together with a unique reference to use. 
Having called Barclays and realised she could apply online; the call was ended with Ms Vs 
agreement to submit the application. But Barclays have no record of that being completed.
Further file notes provided by Barclays show that Ms V did contact them again when she 
failed to complete her online application. It appears Barclays were trying to help her here. 
Barclays have confirmed that their agents arent able to complete an application over the 
phone. Instead, they may try to assist by accessing Barclays external website and asking 
Ms V questions to enable an online application to be completed. But despite this, there is still 
no record of an application being successfully submitted.
Ms V has confirmed to this service that having been furloughed in March 2020, she was then 
made redundant at the end of October 2020. So, at that time, there was no clear end or 
solution to her financial difficulties. I also understand that Ms V suffered extended periods of 
health difficulty. She was applying for government benefits and seeking out new employment 
opportunities. Barclays have explained that because Ms Vs financial difficulties were more 
long term by nature, they wouldnt have been able to agree a further payment deferral.
In situations where support under the FCAs special guidance has either been exhausted or 
isnt appropriate because financial difficulties are not considered temporary, Barclays would 
be expected to consider alternative forms of forbearance. This service would consider 
financial difficulties to be temporary where theyre reasonably expected to be resolved by the 
time any deferment ended. And I think Ms Vs circumstances suggested this was unlikely. 
So, I agree that a further deferment under the FCAs special guidance wasnt appropriate 
here.
Where alternative forms of forbearance are considered appropriate, the key rules and 
standards that apply are set down in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
Section 7. These include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from an unexpected reduction in income.
Barclays agreed to place a hold on Ms Vs account on several occasions so that her 
circumstances could be reviewed further. Unfortunately, they werent able to reach an 
acceptable agreement or payment arrangement with Ms V. So, Barclays later defaulted her 
account. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and normally by the time you are six months in arrears. From the information Ive seen, it 
appears the arrears on Ms Vs account met this requirement. So, I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong when they issued a default notice and recorded this on Ms Vs credit file. 
I appreciate and acknowledge this must have been a very difficult time for Ms V. While her 
financial circumstances were initially impacted by the effects of the global pandemic, her 
problems became more long term in their nature. And this impacted upon the support 
options that were available to her. But I cant reasonably say that Barclays did anything 
wrong here. They appear to have tried to support Ms V in other ways, but as an agreement 
couldnt be reached, an account default appears to have been inevitable.
I realise Ms V will be disappointed, but based upon my findings, I wont be upholding her 
complaint. I would encourage her to seek independent advice from any of the free debt 
advisory organisations available and hope that she is able to find a solution going forward.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman