DRN-3131452
The complaint
Mr S, through his representative, complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH), lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information provided by LAH here is a brief table of approved loans.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 27/02/2019 29/05/2019 24 £150.00 £10.00
2 29/05/2019 06/11/2019 33 £200.00 £10.00
3 06/11/2019 05/08/2020 33 £150.00 £7.50
4 05/08/2020 26/05/2021 33 £250.00 £12.50
Records submitted to us do indicate that a loan Mr S applied to LAH for in November 2018 
was declined by LAH due to poor bureau data which I translate to mean credit bureau 
information.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that the evidence she saw 
led her to conclude that LAH had done anything wrong in relation to loans 1 to 3. But she did 
think that as loan 4 was lent to Mr S about eighteen months after loan 1, then a pattern of 
lending had evolved such that she felt loan 4 ought not to have been approved for Mr S.
LAH disagreed and gave several reasons as to why, and I have reviewed them all. Mr S 
representative has acknowledged the view but not disagreed with it.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision giving reasons as to why I was planning not to uphold Mr S complaint. Both parties 
had until 13 January 2022 to respond. 
We have received an acknowledgement from Mr S representative to demonstrate that the 
provisional decision was sent to Mr S for his response. Nothing has been received since 
then. LAH has not replied. 
My provisional decision appears later int his decision and I have duplicated it in smaller type 
to differentiate it. 
The complaint remained unresolved and this is my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
LAH was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
My provisional decision findings dated 17 December 2022
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr S complaint.
The loan refusal in November 2018 may have had a bearing on its approach to Mr S loan application 
in February 2019 (Loan 1). LAH declined Mr S application a few months before due to poor credit 
search results but I have no details about that declined loan  it may have been for a larger sum or his 
income and expenditure figures may have been different.However, LAH was aware and was reviewing the credit search data before lending to Mr S. I have 
seen that he had an outstanding County Court Judgment (CCJ) and he had other credit commitments 
to maintain.
Having said that I can see that LAH verified his income by looking at payslip data and had done a 
comprehensive list of expenditure items with Mr S. As loans 1 to 3 were for relatively modest sums, 
then I think that the checks LAH carried out were likely just about satisfactory as the CCJ data would 
be a concern, but this was balanced, in my view, by the relatively small sums being applied for.
However, by Loan 4, Mr S had been a bit late repaying loan 3, and the loan 4 application was for a 
slightly larger sum of £250. So, I do think that additional checks may have been justified. But LAH had 
carried out a further credit bureau search and the CCJ data had been removed from the results 
suggesting the outstanding CCJ had been repaid by this point or was over six years in age and had 
been removed from his credit file. Both of these reasons lead me to think that LAH had a reasonable 
approach to think that Mr S credit record had improved by the time he was applying for loan 4.
Ive reviewed the detailed income and expenditure application form completed around the time that 
Mr S applied for loan 4, and although I can see that Mr S had to be careful with his expenditure still 
I dont think I have enough to consider that LAH were wrong to lend to him.
And I disagree that the repetitive nature of the lending was such that LAH ought to have realised that 
the approval of loan 4 was likely to cause Mr S harm.
On current evidence I am planning not to uphold Mr S complaint. If either party wish to send me more 
evidence or documentation I will review it in the New Year 2022.
My decision now
No additional evidence or points have been received from either party and in the 
circumstances I see no reason to alter my provisional decision outcome.
For the reasons set out above in that provisional decision I have decided not to uphold Mr S 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman