DRN-4388832
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money he lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mr S says:
Mr S said he was the victim of a previous investment scam  whereby he made payments to 
a scammer and lost money. He was then approached by another person who claimed to be 
able to recover his money  for a fee. Mr S paid the fee of £4,383.51 on 2 December 2021. 
But  that contact also proved to be a scammer and Mr S lost the money.
The payment was:
Date Payment Amount
2 December 2021 Faster payment (USD5,625) - international £4,383.51
2 December 2021 Fee £5
Total loss £4,388.51
Mr S complained to HSBC in June 2023. He said the transaction was unusual and HSBC 
shouldve done more to protect him. HSBC shouldve warned him about the potential for the 
payment to be a scam  and the money should be reimbursed under the Contingency 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code).
He says HSBC should refund the money and add interest at 8% per annum; and remove any 
adverse markers on his credit file. 
What HSBC said:
HSBC said that the payment wasnt covered by the Contingency Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code)  as it was an international payment. In December 2021, theyd tried to 
recover the money from the recipient bank, but without success.
Our investigation so far:
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the payment 
wasnt unusual compared to the normal activity on Mr S account. And customers could 
sometimes be expected to make slightly larger payments. HSBC had tried to recover the 
money but had no success.
Mr S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So - it has come to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S has lost money in a scam. Its not in question that he authorised 
and consented to the payment in this case. So although Mr S didnt intend for the money to 
go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S when 
he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
Mr S has argued that the payment should be refunded under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM Code). But Im afraid to say that doesnt apply in this case. That is 
because it applies to faster payments made to a UK beneficiary and in this case, the 
payments were made to an overseas account. 
I considered whether this was a payment that HSBC might reasonably have considered 
unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the payment and contacted 
Mr S about it. I looked at Mr Ss account, and its fair to say that he generally used it for day-
to-day expenses and income. Payments were mostly below £1,000.
As our investigator noted, there was a payment for £6,500 in July 2021  but that was a one-
off payment, and no others stood out as being large enough to conclude that Mr S used his 
account for regular, large payments.
But thats not the main point here  I dont think we could expect HSBC to have intervened in 
the payment because it was for a relatively low amount. I say that as - theres a balance to be struck: HSBC has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers 
best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause 
unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think HSBC acted reasonably 
in processing the payments.
I did note that when Mr S made the payment, HSBC sent a pop up on screen message to 
Mr S which said, Scam Alertthis payment has been flagged as higher risk and a second 
pop up said, Take care when sending money onlinetake time to speak to someone you 
trust. Then check the company is genuinebefore making any payment. We may not be 
able to recover payments that turn out to be fraudulent.
Mr S clicked to continue with the payment. 
So, on balance, taking all this into account, I cant in all fairness hold HSBC as liable for the 
payment.
Mr S has said that any adverse markers on his credit file should be removed. I cant ask 
HSBC to do that, as I dont conclude that HSBC made any errors in making the payment.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether HSBC took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. 
I can see that Mr S contacted HSBC in December 2021 and HSBC then contacted the 
recipient bank. In cases of payments to an overseas account  the foreign bank concerned 
has to get the authority of the payee to release the funds. And in February 2022, that bank 
responded that theyd contacted the beneficiary of the payment  to get such an authority -
but theyd not agreed to do so. So  no money could be refunded.
Im satisfied that HSBC did what they could here.
Im sorry Mr S has had to contact us in these circumstances, especially as hes said he lost 
money in a previous scam. I accept hes been the victim of a cruel scam, but I cant 
reasonably hold HSBC responsible for his loss. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman