DRN-2896462
Complaint
Miss P has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable loan. 
Background
Everyday Lending provided Miss P with a loan for £3,000.00 in September 2018. It had an 
APR of 106.8% and was due to be paid in 30 monthly instalments of £228.18, which meant 
that the total amount repayable, including interest of £3,845.40, was £6,845.40. 
One of our investigators considered Miss Ps complaint. She told Everyday Lending that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that Miss P wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments to this loan. So she thought that Everyday Lending 
shouldnt have provided Miss P with this loan and upheld the complaint. Everyday Lending 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Ps complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ps complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Miss P would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make fair lending decisions?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss P wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss P would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations in place when Everyday Lending lent to Miss P required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay her 
loan in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss P. 
In practice this meant that Everyday Lending had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loans wouldnt cause Miss P undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it 
wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Everyday Lending checks reasonable and proportionate?
Everyday Lending has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with 
Miss P. It says Miss Ps monthly income was recorded as £2,237.98 which was verified by 
bank statements and a payslip. Miss P was recorded as having mortgage payments of £322 
a month and her living expenses were estimated using data and figures from the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS). Once monthly repayment amounts for Miss Ps remaining credit 
commitments were added to her repayments for this loan, she was left with approaching 
£300 each month in disposable income. 
Ive carefully thought about what Everyday Lending has said. But simply requesting 
information from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a 
borrower focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
Im concerned that Everyday Lending appears to have proceeded with this application in 
circumstances where a large proportion of Miss Ps expenditure was estimated.Indeed Im not sure that Everyday Loans numbers even add up here. Everyday Lending 
says Miss Ps income was calculated as being £2,237.98 each month. But this appears to be 
the amount it recorded as joint income. Everyday Lendings checks on Miss Ps income 
appear to suggest that she was only earning close to £1,500.00 a month. While the 
regulations do allow a firm to take into account joint income, it is only fair and reasonable to 
do so in circumstances where joint expenditure is also taken into account. And I cant see 
anything to suggest that Miss P was asked for details for her husbands expenditure. And 
when this income discrepancy is accounted for, Miss Ps loan repayments become pounds 
and pence unaffordable.      
Furthermore, Ive also seen that monthly creditor repayment amount Everyday Lending 
arrived at included minimum payments for Miss Ps credit cards. So I think that the monthly 
creditor repayment amount arrived at wasnt particularly accurate here and bearing in mind 
the defaults that showed up in Miss Ps credit search as well as the other existing high-cost 
lending, which suggested Miss P fell outside the portfolio of the average customer covered 
by ONS data, I would have expected Everyday Lending to have carried out further checks 
before concluding the repayments to this loan were affordable. 
So as well as asking Miss P about the details of her income and expenditure and carrying 
out credit checks, I think that Everyday Lending needed to verify what Miss P said. It could 
have done this by applying closer scrutiny to the bank statements it had or could have asked 
for other information such as copies of bills. And when it obtained this information it needed 
to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Miss P did have enough funds to be able to make 
the payments.
 
As theres no evidence that Everyday Lending did properly scrutinise the information 
provided, or that it verified, rather than estimated Miss Ps expenditure, I find that it didnt 
complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing Miss P with 
this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Everyday Lending that Miss P 
would have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that proportionate checks would have told Everyday Lending that Miss P wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Miss P has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Miss P has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Everyday Lending mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Everyday Lending showing what this information 
would have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on it as an indication of what Miss Ps financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Everyday Lending was required to establish whether Miss P could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation (even though Everyday 
Lendings own checks suggested this was unlikely). And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Miss P has provided in light of all of this. 
The information provided shows that Miss Ps was already struggling to manage the quite 
considerable credit commitments she already had. She was borrowing from multiple sources 
in order to meet her commitments to her existing creditors. I dont think the limited amount of 
discretionary purchases that Everyday Lending has referred to changes this. And, in my 
view, the information provided demonstrates that Miss P was in no position to have been 
able to sustainably repay this loan.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have demonstrated that Miss P would not have been able to make the repayments 
to this loan. 
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Everyday Lending acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P 
in some other way.  
So I find that Everyday Lending didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some 
other way.  
Did Miss P lose out as a result of Everyday Lending unfairly and unreasonably providing her 
with her loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss Ps indebtedness. This loan 
wasnt cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and she ended up paying 
interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been given in the first place. 
So I find that Miss P lost out because Everyday Lending unfairly provided her with this loan.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Lending needs to do to put things right for Miss P
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Miss Ps complaint for Everyday Lending to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss P paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded interest, fees and charges 
Miss P paid from the date they were made to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information about this loan recorded on Miss Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if 
she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman