Page 1 of 5The complaint
Mrs H, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that she was mis-
sold an investment by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in Mrs Hs complaint and set out the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings as follows:
In 2001 Mrs H was advised to invest £5,000 in the NatWest Safeguard Trust, within an 
individual savings account (ISA). She surrendered the investment in 2008 and received 
£5,855.66. In 2019 she made a complaint, via a CMC, saying that she was advised to invest 
too much money and take too much risk, given her low level of income and limited savings. 
The CMC said she ought to have been advised to place the money in a high interest savings 
account or pay off a lump sum from her debts.
NatWest felt the advice was suitable due to the low level of risk in the fund, the fact Mrs H 
had some disposable income and that Mrs H was left with a cash reserve. Unhappy with the 
reply, Mrs H brought the complaint to our service. An investigator at our service looked into 
the complaint and felt it should be upheld. He felt NatWest did accurately assess Mrs Hs 
attitude and capacity for risk, and he agreed she was willing and able to take a small amount 
of risk. However, he felt there were particular assets that the fund could invest in, which he 
felt involved too much risk. He recommended that NatWest compare the return Mrs H 
received with the return available on half her money using the average rates from one-year 
fixed rate bonds, and half using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Index.
NatWest didnt agree, explaining the fund was in line with Mrs Hs attitude to risk, and the 
higher risk elements within it were permitted at the time. The fund included some safeguards 
that somewhat limited the potential losses, which they felt made it suitable for Mrs H. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From looking at the information recorded at the time of the sale, I can see that Mrs H had 
around £10,000 in savings when she received advice from NatWest. She held no other 
investments at the time and its accepted she was a first-time investor. She was earning 
£11,284 per year. The investigator concluded that her outgoings were £5,820 per year, and 
this appears to have influenced his opinion that Mrs H had the capacity to take some risk 
with her money. However, I disagree with this assessment.
DRN-3004774Page 2 of 5Mrs Hs expenditure was in fact £10,569 per year, and the adviser said that this meant she 
had a disposable income of £1,521 (£126 per month). I cant see how the adviser arrived at 
this figure, as £11,284 minus £10,569 is £715. This would have given Mrs H a disposable 
income of around £60 per month. I appreciate that Mrs Hs husband was also working at the 
time, however nothing was recorded in the point of sale documents that suggest he was 
paying toward any of the recorded expenditure. So, Ive considered whether the investment 
was suitable, with that in mind.
When assessing Mrs Hs attitude to risk, there were five options to choose from  the first 
two of which were described as investments with some form of guarantee. The other three 
options involved open ended investments without guarantees and Mrs Hs attitude was 
assessed as the lowest risk of these three. Her attitude to risk was further detailed in the 
suitability letter, which said:
you recognise the longer term potential that comes from investments that fluctuate in value 
and involve the risk of a loss arising. However, you would feel more comfortable with 
investing a good proportion of your funds in those types of investment that have historically 
suffered from lower levels of fluctuations in value, when compared with investments such as 
shares.
I agree based on these records that Mrs H was willing to take a small amount of risk and 
was looking for a standard low risk type of investment, without much exposure to equities. 
However, Im not convinced she was willing to take the risk involved in this particular fund. 
The key features document says the fund was made up of a mixture of worldwide equities 
and fixed interest assets, plus options and futures. Though I dont have a fund fact sheet, so 
I dont know the exact split of assets within the fund in 2001, in the suitability letter the 
adviser said it would invest in a selection of stocks and shares whilst moderating the risk 
represented by stock market investments without mention of any fixed interest assets.
I think its likely that the adviser would have had access to more information about the fund, 
than we have now, so I think it would be fair to rely on their comments in the suitability letter 
to show the position of the fund at the time. Based on what the adviser said in the suitability 
letter, on balance I think its likely the fund would have invested more in equities than fixed 
interest assets. The fund also involved options and futures, which are generally considered 
higher risk and more complex investments than shares. Based on the comments recorded at 
the time both about the fund and the sort of investment Mrs H was looking for, in my opinion 
the fund involved assets with a higher level of risk than Mrs H was willing to take. While I 
understand the purpose of the options and futures element of the fund was to mitigate the 
movement of the equities in the fund, I dont think that makes it suitable for Mrs H.
In the suitability letter the adviser has clearly described the fund as one that moderates risk, 
and limits effects of loss by providing protection. In a further letter, the adviser said that 
another fund had been discussed, but Mrs H preferred this one, because of the built in 
security measures. In my opinion these descriptions by the adviser gave Mrs H a more 
positive view of the fund than I think was reasonable, and they didnt give an adequate 
explanation of the risks that were still involved, despite the protections in place.
There was a floor price of 95% on the price of the units, beyond which Mrs Hs investment 
shouldnt fall, but this was not guaranteed  and it was based on the unit value at one point 
of the year. The value of her investment could still fall below the floor price in the event of 
an unusually large fall in stock market prices, which wasnt defined. The use of the 
safeguards here limited the potential for growth in the fund, which was set out in the 
suitability letter  but it didnt say how much it could impact the growth. The adviser didnt 
clearly explain that this was because the fund used a non-standard strategy, employing 
higher risk investments than Mrs H had been willing to use.Page 3 of 5Mrs H had no prior investment experience, and I think its unlikely shed have understood the 
structure of the fund or the risks it posed without the adviser explaining those in detail, which 
they didnt. For instance, when Mrs H invested, the floor price had been set just over a 
month before. The adviser didnt explain what the movement of the unit price had been 
since, or what that would mean for the actual protection Mrs H would have until the floor 
price was reset.
All of this meant that Mrs H couldnt make an informed decision. The suitability letter makes 
it clear that she was more comfortable with less risky investments than equities. This fund 
not only involved equities, but other higher risk assets too, as well as unusual investment 
strategies. As a result, if the adviser had explained the fund in more detail, allowing Mrs H to 
make an informed decision, on balance I dont think Mrs H would have gone ahead with this 
investment.
While the adviser needed to consider Mrs Hs attitude to risk, they also needed to take 
account of her capacity for risk. Regardless of whether Mrs H was willing to take risk, I dont 
think Mrs H had the capacity to take any here, based on what Ive said above about her 
income. Given that the £10,000 appears to be all of Mrs Hs savings and she had such a 
minimal disposable income, Im not satisfied she was in a position to risk half of her savings. 
Its highly unlikely shed have been able to make up for any losses sustained  even if those 
losses were somewhat mitigated by the safeguard in place in the fund.
To summarise, I think Mrs H was advised to take more risk than she ought to have been 
advised to take, and she wasnt given a fair opportunity to make an informed decision to 
invest. I note that the CMC has said Mrs H ought to have been advised to put the money 
toward her debts. I can see that paying off part of her mortgage appears to have been 
discussed and discounted, based on a letter sent to Mrs H after the suitability letter. I dont 
think its unusual that a consumer would want to save their money and still have access to it, 
rather than pay off debts. So, I dont agree with the CMC here. 
I then proposed redress based on a comparison of the return Mrs H received from her ISA 
and the return she would have received from the average rates from one-year fixed rate 
bonds. 
Responses to my provisional decision
The CMC responded and said they had nothing to add.
NatWest responded and asked for clarification of my decision  they said:
The PD contains the wording The customer was willing to take a small amount of risk and 
she was more comfortable with less risky investments than equities but that Regardless of 
whether Mrs H was willing to take risk, I dont think Mrs H had the capacity to take any here.
It would appear therefore that the Ombudsman has requested a comparison with a fair value 
based on the Bank of Englands average fixed rate bond index based on her belief that the 
customer did not have the capacity to take any risk even though the evidence shows she 
was comfortable taking some risk. Is our understanding of this correct?
We calculated potential redress in May based on a comparison with 50/50 as requested 
previously by [the investigator] which yielded a redress figure of £1,816.44 however a 
redress calculation last week shows the redress based on a comparison with the Bank of 
Englands average fixed rate bond index to be lower at £1,784.98.Page 4 of 5For this reason, we are seeking confirmation that the Ombudsman maintains the redress 
proposed in her PD ie. a comparison with the Bank of Englands average fixed rate bond 
index rather than the redress proposed by [the investigator] previously.
In response, I said:
In terms of Mrs Hs capacity to take risk, yes I do think this is more important than her 
willingness to take risk. The advise r ought to have explained that she should nt be taking that 
level of risk, given her lack of capacity to make up for any losses.
Thank you for the information about the redress amou nts that youve calculated. However, 
the amount of the redre ss being offered has no bearing on the benchmark that I think is fair 
in this case.
NatWest replied and confirmed they had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in lig ht of no new submissions from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional finding s as set out abo ve, for the same reasons. Both attitude towards 
and capacity fo r risk are important elements of suitability and an advise r o ught to take both 
into account. Thoug h Mrs H was willing to take a small amount of risk, I think the adviser 
ought to have realised that wasnt suitable given he r circumstances. 
On balan ce, I think the advice Mrs H was given was unsuitable. My decisio n is not based on 
which redress method gives Mrs H more compensation. Rather I have set out below a 
method of compensating her that represe nts the type of return Mrs H would have received 
had she been given suitable advice.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
H as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mrs H would have invested differently. It i s not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when sh e invested. 
What should NatWest do?
To compensa
te Mrs H fairly, NatWest must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value  of the
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is
payable.
NatWest should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Page 5 of 5investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
NatWest 
Safeguard 
Trustsurrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value  when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, NatWest 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mrs H wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs H's
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs H would have invested only
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
National Westminster Bank Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mrs H in a clear, 
simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman