DRN-3024754
The complaint
Miss T complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (YB) and her 
inability to pay a bill through their app as her payee details had been removed.
What happened
Miss T holds a current account with YB. She uses YBs app to manage her account and 
make payments for bills. In February 2021, Miss T logged onto her app to make a monthly 
payment. But she discovered her payees details had been removed so she was unable to 
make the payment as she normally would.
In order to ensure her payment was made, Miss T had to log onto her online banking which 
wasnt something she was used to doing, so this caused her stress and inconvenience. Miss 
T was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss T was unhappy that her payee details had been removed from her account. She 
explained how this had been inconvenient for her and couldve potentially led to her missing 
a payment. So, she wanted to be compensated for this.
YB didnt agree. They recognised the upset this wouldve caused Miss T. But they explained 
all company banking details were maintained on what they called an Eigar list. This list is 
monitored and updates, to ensure all company details are correct. And they explained this 
list was maintained by a new third-party company, who Ill refer to as E. They explained, 
although its unlikely, there will be occasions where companys drop off the list, if they change 
name or banking details. But as this update was maintained by E, they didnt think Miss Ts 
payee being removed was within their control, or their fault.
They explained Miss T could add the payee details again, as a personal payee rather than a 
company, to prevent this happening in the future. But they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong, so didnt offer to do anything more. Miss T remained unhappy with this response, so 
she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised how frustrating 
it wouldve been for Miss T when she realised her payee details had been removed and why 
shed blame YB for this. And he thought YB were partly responsible for the actions taken by 
E, as they instructed E to maintain the list on their behalf. But, crucially, he thought YBs 
explanation regarding why the payee information had been removed was fair. And that the 
workaround they suggested was reasonable. So, he didnt think YB needed to do anything 
more on this occasion. 
Miss T didnt agree. She wanted to know who wouldve been responsible if shed been 
unable to make the payment due to her payee details being removed. She explained she 
kept a list of her payees in order to ensure she maintained her finances responsibly. And 
she thought YB had let her down by preventing this. So, she wanted to be compensated for 
this upset it caused. As Miss T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss T. I appreciate Miss T 
used her mobile banking app with YB as her primary way of maintaining her account and 
paying bills. And to make this process easier, Miss T saved her payees so payments were 
quicker and more streamlined. So, when Miss T used her app to make a payment and 
realised one her payees had disappeared, I understand why this wouldve been frustrating. I 
also recognise this meant Miss T needed to log onto her online banking, which she found 
difficult and inconvenient. As YB were the provider of her current account, I understand why 
shes holds them responsible for this inconvenience and why she feels she should be 
compensated for this.
But for me to say YB have done something wrong, and should compensate Miss T, Id need 
to be satisfied that her payee was removed due to an error YB made. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Miss Ts payee was removed from her mobile banking app. YB have 
explained this happens automatically if a company changes their details which are noted on 
the Eigar list. YB have said this listed is updated and monitored by E, so they dont think its 
their responsibility. But I dont necessarily agree with this, as YB instructed E to monitor this 
list on YBs behalf. So, I think E were working as an agent of YB and so, any actions E take 
are still a responsibility of E. But YBs decision to outsource this work was a business 
decision about a business process, and our service is unable to comment on business 
processes or ask them to be changed. So, I cant say YBs decision to outsource this work to 
E was unfair or unreasonable.
And even so, I dont think E or YB have made an error on this occasion. I dont think it was 
YB or Es fault that the company listed as one of Miss Ts payees changed their details. And 
as a change in details leads to a company being removed from the Eigar list, I dont think YB 
or E, acting as an agent of YB, couldve done anything to prevent this removal. The removal 
is done to ensure a customer isnt sending money to an incorrect account so is in place to 
protect a customers finances. And I think this is reasonable.
While I appreciate Miss T was never told about the Eigar list beforehand, I dont think I 
wouldve expected YB to do so. And even if they had, I think Miss T wouldve continued to 
save her payees details as she did this to make payments easier and less time consuming. 
So, I think she wouldve found herself in the same position.
YB responded to Miss Ts complaint and provided Miss T with a workaround to prevent a 
similar situation occurring in the future. They explained Miss T could save the companys 
details as a personal payee, rather than a company payee, meaning any changes on the 
Eigar list wouldnt impact the details saved in her online banking. I think this showed YB 
acting reasonably by providing Miss T with an alternative option to prevent further 
inconvenience.
Miss T has raised a point about what wouldve happened if the removal of her payee had led 
to her missing a payment. And I understand why this would worry Miss T. But, crucially, this 
didnt happen and Miss T was still able to make her payment on time. Were unable to compensate customers for an impact which may have happened but didnt. Were only able 
to consider what actually happened, and any impact that was actually caused.
So, although I recognise the inconvenience Miss T was caused, I dont think this resulted 
from an error YB made on this occasion. And because of this, I dont think they need to do 
anything more. I understand this isnt the outcome Miss T was hoping for but I hope my 
decision provides some closure for Miss T, and a more details explanation of what happened 
and how to prevent similar occurrences in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint about Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman