DRN-3941996
The complaint
Mr D, through a claims management company (CMC), has complained about the advice he 
received from LJ Financial Planning Ltd (LJ Financial) to transfer his personal pension to a 
Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS). He has said the advice was 
unsuitable for him and as a result he has suffered financially.
What happened
Mr D has told us that he was contacted out of the blue by LJ Financial in early 2019 to 
discuss his pension arrangements. This resulted in him being advised to transfer his pension 
to the QROPS based in Gibraltar. He has said he met with the adviser over video call for 
only about ten minutes.
No other information has been provided by either Mr D or his CMC.
In response to the complaint LJ Financial said it was introduced to Mr D to provide advice 
about whether the transfer was suitable. It has told us that the advice process was started 
but it didnt proceed to its conclusion and no advice was ultimately provided. It has stated it 
wasnt involved in the transfer process.
LF Financial also highlighted that it had become aware in May 2020 that its name was being 
used fraudulently by a business in relation to applications for transfer to this particular 
QROPS. It explained that it had raised this through its solicitors with the scheme 
administrators and the scheme trustees and subsequently with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), the Regulator, as no response from either party had been received.
Unhappy with this response the CMC brought Mr Ds complaint to this service where it was 
assessed by one of our investigators.  He was of the view that not enough evidence had 
been provided to safely conclude LJ Financial had provided Mr H with any advice and that it 
was likely from the information he had reviewed that the short meeting that took place was 
the only contact Mr D and LJ Financial had in relation to this transaction.
The CMC on behalf of Mr D didnt agree with the assessment. So as no agreement could be 
reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Very little information has been provided by both parties. So, I must make my decision based 
on what I think is more likely to have happened taken from the evidence I have been 
provided.
From this information I have seen that Mr D completed the overseas transfer out members 
consent form signed in July 2019 where he named LJ Financial as his advisers. There is 
also a terms of business/contract information form between LJ Financial and Mr D 
establishing a relationship, also signed in July 2019. However, nothing else has been 
provided that shows the relationship between the two moved further from this point.
If advice has been given in any transaction, I would expect to see a record of that advice in 
what is usually known as a suitability letter. This would set out a clients objectives and what 
had been recommended to him and the reason why. I would also expect to see a 
comprehensive record of the clients personal and financial circumstances. But Nothing like 
this has been provided to me that related to Mr D so I can only assume they dont exist.
As it is a requirement for regulated firms to carry out comprehensive assessments of a 
consumers financial position as well as recording the recommendations when advice is 
given there would be no reason why this didnt happen in this case if the advice did take 
place. And it is unlikely that LJ Financial failed to conduct such in depth enquiries if it was 
giving advice because it would lead to admonishment from the FCA and it could lose its 
regulated status. Therefore, it would be of no benefit to LJ Financial to not follow the correct 
and proper process if it had given any advice.
I therefore think that its more likely that no advice was given and the relationship between 
LJ Financial and Mr D started and ended with the quick meeting that took place.
I appreciate it could be argued that LJ Financial is simply not providing us with the required 
information or documents. However, this is very unlikely because all regulated financial 
businesses have a duty to comply with the requirements and requests of this Service and if a 
business doesnt then this would again lead to problems with the FCA.
Its also worth noting that no evidence that Mr D paid a fee has been provided either. If 
advice was given then its very unlikely this would have been given free of charge. Which 
again supports the assertion that no advice was given to Mr D by LJ Financial. 
Furthermore, as already noted LJ Financial has provided letters it sent through its solicitors 
to the administrators of the scheme and the schemes trustees querying why its name had 
been used in relation to this particular QROPS fraudulently. I have seen those letters and 
I have no reason to doubt their authenticity. Nor do I have any reason to doubt that LJ 
Financial has also involved the regulator and it is now carrying out its own investigation.
I think its very unlikely that LJ Financial would have retained a reputable solicitor firm to 
investigate this matter if it actually had been involved in this transfer nor would it have 
involved the FCA.
Therefore, given what I have said above there isnt enough evidence for me to safely 
conclude that LJ Financial gave Mr D any form of advice to transfer away from his personal 
pension into a QROPS. It appears something nefarious has taken place in relation to this 
specific QROPS but from the evidence I have seen I dont think LJ Financial has anything to 
do with it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ayshea KhanOmbudsman