DRN-4106526
The complaint
Mr V complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited (AJ Bell) is responsible for several failings 
regarding the handling of a corporate action connected to an investment held in his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says that this caused him to suffer inconvenience 
and a financial loss.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment which he provided to both Mr V and AJ Bell. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator said but will instead provide a summary.
Mr V, a UK resident, has a SIPP provided by AJ Bell. He held shares in a pharmaceutical 
company (Firm A) which was listed on NASDAQ. Firm A specialised in developing 
cannabis-related medicines.
In 2021, Firm A was acquired by another pharmaceutical company (Firm B) which is also 
listed on NASDAQ  the terms of the corporate action resulted in Mr V receiving a cash 
payment and some shares in Firm B, both denominated in US dollars (USD). AJ Bell 
doesnt permit USD to be held in its SIPP product and so the cash payment was converted 
to Sterling (GBP) at Mr Vs cost. His shares in Firm B were held in his SIPP in the form of 
CREST Depository Interests (CDIs). This is a UK security and designed to represent an 
investment listed on a stock exchange outside the UK, which in Mr Vs case was his shares 
in Firm B listed on NASDAQ  each CDI is intended to be the equivalent of each share in the 
underlying stock. CDIs are dealt online and quoted in GBP. The CREST system is owned 
and operated by a third party, Euroclear.
During 2022, Euroclear carried out a review of certain international securities offered in the 
form of CDIs. Following the review it concluded, pursuant to CREST Rule 7 Admission and 
removal of securities, that certain securities held in the form of CDIs no longer satisfied the 
requirements for admission to the CREST system due to their connection with cannabis and, 
as such, would be removed from the CREST system. This meant that Mr V was no longer 
able to hold CDIs in his SIPP connected to Firm B. On 5 October 2022, Euroclear issued a 
bulletin (2022-143) to CREST participants, including AJ Bell, confirming its decision, and 
stated that it would withdrawing support for relevant CDIs on 18 November 2022. After 
taking into account feedback from CREST participants including AJ Bell, Euroclear issued a 
further bulletin (2022-159) in which it extended the deadline to 3 February 2023 for impacted 
investors, such as Mr V, to sell or transfer their position outside of the CREST system.
AJ Bell informed Mr V about Euroclears decision. There followed an exchange of 
correspondence. The outcome was that AJ Bell instructed Mr V to sell his shares in Firm B. 
It said that if it didnt receive a sell instruction by Euroclears deadline of 3 February 2023 
that it would sell his position.
This complaint
Mr V was unhappy about AJ Bells instruction that he sell or transfer his position in Firm B 
shares, particularly since he had previously held shares in Firm A, which had also been 
connected to the development of cannabis-related medicine, on the CREST system for 
several years without issue. So he complained. He suggested alternative options to AJ Bell 
that he believed would enable him to retain his shares in Firm B.
AJ Bell didnt uphold this complaint. It said that the decision by Euroclear to remove certain 
CDIs from the CREST system was outside of its control and so it couldnt be held 
responsible for this. It said that it had thoroughly explored all alternative and credible options 
but no other custodians it had access to were willing to allow Firm Bs shares to be held with 
them as an alternative to the CREST system. As a result, following the decision by 
Euroclear, it was compelled to alter the permitted investment status of Mr Vs CDIs related to 
shares in Firm B  and so would need to sell his position. It clarified that the terms and 
conditions of the SIPP, which Mr V agreed to when he opened the account, confirmed that it 
may alter the status of permitted investments at any time and without notice. It said that it 
had acted in Mr Vs best interests throughout, but its hands were tied by Euroclears 
decision.
Mr V didnt accept AJ Bells response and referred the matter to this service. He provided a 
detailed explanation about why he thought AJ Bell was responsible for several failings 
regarding the handling of the corporate action connected to Firm A and Firm B and the 
impact this had on his SIPP, summarised as follows:
Cash payment  AJ Bell treated him unfairly by preventing him from holding his cash 
payment in USD and converting this to GBP at his cost. This was in contrast to other 
shareholders outside the CDI format who were only permitted to receive the cash 
payment in USD. He said that it was unfair he was obliged to convert into GBP at a 
poor exchange rate and a commission charge of £85. He believed that there was a 
clear conflict of interest over not only the registration of the shares but in AJ Bell 
taking a commission on an FX transaction while providing him with its house rate for 
converting USD to GBP;
Firm B shares  AJ Bell unfairly required him to hold his shares in Firm B as CDIs 
when they are normally held in a nominee in the country of origin. This meant he was 
treated differently to other shareholders that held shares either directly or in a US 
nominee. In his view, the terms and conditions (T&C) of the AJ Bell SIPP product 
represented an unfair contract;
AJ Bells competence - AJ Bell failed to share with him information about its 
systems and controls relating to the handling of US corporate actions which he 
interpreted as an acknowledgement it has weaknesses in this area causing likely 
detriment to its customers. He said at no time in connection with this matter did AJ 
Bell act with due skill, care and diligence and that he had already reported it to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Alternative options  based on his personal knowledge and experience of US 
corporate actions and CREST, he believed that AJ Bell couldve offered alternative 
options to his benefit, such as transferring his cash payment and shares in Firm B to 
a US-based depository, but it had prevented him from doing so. He said that this 
caused him to suffer inconvenience and a financial loss, the value of which would 
need to be calculated taking into account various factors.One of our investigators contacted Mr V to obtain more information about this complaint. 
Their followed an exchange of correspondence which led to Mr V stating that he had decided 
to withhold some evidence until after he had received our investigators assessment. Our 
investigator encouraged Mr V to be open and provide all the evidence that he wanted this 
service to consider but he declined. Notwithstanding this, our investigator was satisfied that 
he had sufficient information to progress to assessment. Based on the available evidence, 
he didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld. This was mainly because the decision by 
Euroclear to remove certain CDIs from the CREST system  and the impact this had on              
Mr Vs holding in Firm B shares  was outside of AJ Bells control. Our investigator was 
satisfied that that AJ Bell had managed Mr Vs SIPP in line with the agreed T&C. In 
conclusion, he didnt think that AJ Bell had made an error or had treated Mr V unfairly. And 
so he didnt think it needed to take any further action in response to Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in 
response. Our investigator considered Mr Vs additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change his view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to 
me, an ombudsman, to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by Mr V and AJ Bell. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Scope of this final decision
I think its necessary to clarify the issues upon which I can decide under this final decision. 
This complaint is about AJ Bell. Therefore, in deciding this complaint, I can only consider the 
acts and/or omissions of AJ Bell in relation to the specific corporate action that Mr V has 
complained about. I want to be clear that I cannot consider the acts and/or omissions of any 
other third party or award any compensation in connection with this.
Id also like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every 
single point raised by Mr V and AJ Bell. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Evidence
Mr V first contacted this service in 2022 regarding this complaint. He subsequently provided 
evidence for our investigator to consider. He told our investigator that he had additional 
evidence to provide but, surprisingly, decided to withhold it until after he received our 
investigators assessment. Our investigator encouraged Mr V to provide whatever additional 
evidence he had but he declined. When agreement couldnt be reached, Mr V was told that 
this complaint would be referred to an ombudsman and was asked to provide any further 
points or information hed like the ombudsman to consider. No new evidence has been 
received from Mr V. Im satisfied that Mr V has been provided sufficient time to provide any 
evidence he wants me to consider in reaching my decision. My findings below are based on 
the available evidence.Terms and conditions of the AJ Bell SIPP product
When Mr V opened his account with AJ Bell he accepted the T&C in connection with its 
SIPP product. This document sets out the framework of the relationship between AJ Bell and 
Mr V and is relevant in deciding this complaint. I think the relevant sections are:
Section 1.1 confirmed, Our Services enable You to select Products and open 
Accounts in order to invest on an execution only basis. We do not provide financial, 
investment or tax advice as part of the Services. Neither We nor Our Associates give, 
nor is anything on the Website or any linked website to be construed as personal 
investment recommendations, financial, or tax advice of any kind. You are 
responsible for selecting the Product and any investments.
Sections 5.1 and 5.2 confirmed, You may only place Orders for Permitted 
investments and We may alter the Permitted investments range at any time without 
notice and require the sale (or at Our discretion if the related Regulatory 
Requirements permit, Transfer Out or Withdrawal) of investments removed from it, 
but will only normally do so if, for example, purchasing or holding the investment 
might result in a breach of any Regulatory Requirement or if it could result in Us 
incurring liability in excess of the value of the investment or if We consider that the 
investment is too complex or costly to administer. 
Section 5.15 confirmed, "As We only maintain Cash in Your Account in pounds 
sterling, if We have to execute an Order or receive a dividend or other Corporate 
Action event payment in relation to a Permitted investment in another currency, We 
will carry out a foreign exchange transaction to convert the consideration or dividend 
or other payment to or from pounds sterling, as the circumstances require. Please 
refer to the Charges and Rates Page for details of the related currency conversion 
charges.
My findings
Ive considered all the evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator for these reasons:
The corporate action between Firm A and Firm B resulted in Mr V receiving a cash 
payment. He said that AJ Bell treated him unfairly by preventing him from holding the 
cash payment in USD and converting this to GBP at his cost. I dont agree. Section 
5.15 of the T&C confirmed that AJ Bell only permits cash in GBP to be held in its 
SIPP product and that any foreign exchange transaction will be at the clients cost. 
Im satisfied that AJ Bell acted in accordance with the agreed terms when it 
converted the cash payment from USD to GBP and at Mr Vs cost in line with the 
agreed tariff.
Mr V believes that AJ Bell couldve allowed him to hold his shares in Firm B directly 
and in USD or quote his CDIs in USD. I dont agree. International shares cannot be 
handled in CREST. This led to the creation of CDIs which is currently the main 
method of foreign dealing by UK-based stockbrokers including AJ Bell. CDIs are 
dealt online and denominated in GBP. They allow UK-based investors to hold and 
trade international shares listed on a stock exchange overseas  in Mr Vs case, 
CREST issued the CDIs which were then held in his SIPP and designed to represent 
his shares in Firm B. In my view, AJ Bell didnt act incorrectly or treat Mr V unfairly by 
not allowing him to hold his shares in Firm B directly in his SIPP and denominated in 
USD. This outcome wasnt permissible under the CREST system or the agreed T&C. Mr V has commented that he previously held shares in Firm A, which had also been 
connected to the development of cannabis-related medicine, without issue. While 
that might be the case, its essentially irrelevant in deciding this complaint. This is 
because the decision by Euroclear in October 2022 that certain securities held in the 
form of CDIs no longer satisfied the requirements for admission to the CREST 
system was outside of AJ Bells control. Once Euroclear had made that decision and 
communicated it to relevant CREST participants, AJ Bell was compelled to alter the 
permitted investment status of Mr Vs CDIs related to Firm B shares. I cannot direct 
AJ Bell to disregard Euroclears decision and take a different course of action. 
Furthermore, I dont agree that AJ Bell is responsible for any financial loss Mr V has 
suffered on disposal of his shares in Firm B as the result of a decision taken by a 
third party.
Mr V believes AJ Bells T&C amount to an unfair contract. But he hasnt provided any 
evidence to support his position. He essentially wants me to disregard the T&C that 
he accepted at the outset when he opened the SIPP account and direct AJ Bell to 
take a different course of action. Im unable to do this. In conclusion, on the specific 
points in question, Im satisfied that AJ Bells T&C to be transparent in terms of 
converting foreign currencies to GBP and the treatment of permitted investments. 
As an execution only client, it was for Mr V to decide how best to manage his SIPP 
and underlying investments. He was informed in October 2022 of Euroclears 
decision regarding certain CDIs, as set out in bulletins 2022-143 and 2022-159, and 
that he was required to sell or transfer his position outside of the CREST system. He 
was initially given until 13 October 2022 but this was extended to 3 February 2023 to 
take any appropriate action. Under the T&C, AJ Bell could, at any time and without 
notice, change the permitted status of any investment held within its SIPP product. 
Bearing this point in mind, I think Mr V was given a reasonable amount of time 
between October 2022 and February 2023 to make a decision to either sell his 
position or explore other options. Based on the nature of their relationship, it wasnt 
AJ Bells role or responsibility to advise Mr V what to do or explore alternative options 
on his behalf.
Mr V believes that AJ Bell has inadequate systems and controls relating to the 
handling of US corporate actions. He says that AJ Bell refused to provide him with 
information in connection with this and thinks it should be investigated further by this 
service. I understand why he wants me to do this but were not the financial services 
regulator. We dont police the industry or ensure that financial businesses adhere to 
the relevant rules and regulations. That is the role of the FCA. Any concerns Mr V 
has regarding how AJ Bell runs its business, including the adequacy of its systems 
and controls framework relating to the handling of US corporate actions, should be 
raised with the FCA.
This services role is to consider individual complaints and, in essence, to decide 
whether or not the financial business made an error or treated the consumer unfairly. 
Our aim in resolving the problem is to place the consumer, as close as possible, into 
the correct financial position had the error or unfair treatment not happened. I 
understand why Mr V was frustrated and upset by the situation that led to AJ Bell 
converting the cash payment from USD to GBP and altering the permitted investment 
status of his CDIs related to Firm B shares. But I havent seen any evidence AJ Bell 
breached its contract with Mr V, made an error or treated him unfairly for the reasons 
explained. Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to direct AJ Bell to pay compensation to Mr V  or to take any 
further action in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against AJ 
Bell Securities Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman