DRN-4329884
The complaint
T, a business, complains about a claim Mr N made on its AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) 
personal accident insurance policy.
Mr N says AXA declined his claim unfairly.
What happened
Mr N made a claim on Ts AXA personal accident insurance policy to cover temporary total 
disablement when he was unable to work due to surgery on his back.
AXA asked for information to support the cause of the injury Mr N was complaining about, 
but it received differing accounts. Because of this AXA wasnt satisfied the claim was one it 
could cover. Thats because the policy only offered cover for an injury caused by a sudden, 
unexpected, specific event which occurs at an identifiable time and place.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with AXAs position so complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator considered his complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
He said the evidence AXA had been supplied with didnt provide any information about the 
cause of the injury, so AXA was entitled to decline the claim on that basis. The investigator 
did however go on to acknowledge there had been some delays in AXAs handling of the 
claim but that it had fairly compensated Mr N for this by offering to pay £75. 
At the time Mr N had provided some further medical evidence to AXA so the investigator 
directed that AXA should review this and made a further decision about the claim based on 
that.
After reviewing the further evidence AXA said that it still didnt have enough information to 
conclude there was cover available under the policy. Thats because the medical evidence 
Mr N provided didnt evidence the accident complained of occurring but rather provided an 
account given by Mr N to medical professionals eight months after the injury occurred. 
Mr N remained unhappy so complained to this Service about AXAs second decision to 
decline cover. Our investigator agreed that AXA didnt have enough to determine that the 
claim was covered. Mr N doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont agree that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
As the investigator set out, the policy requires there to be an injury caused by a sudden, 
unexpected, specific event which occurs at an identifiable time and place before personal 
accident cover can engage.
In this case Mr N has given several differing accounts of how the injury that gave rise to his 
back surgery occurred throughout the course of the claim to either AXA or their medical 
assessors. Hes cited a fall from a loft, injury as a result of carrying tools, lifting and carrying 
out daily tasks for work such as crawling into lofts and under sinks, clearing his van out 
carrying a new radiator and latterly tripping over a toolbox at work. These are all different 
events. So, its understandable that AXA would want to verify the cause of the injury to 
establish whether it fell within cover.
There was nothing in the initial medical evidence Mr N provided AXA with that determined 
the cause of the injury. And the further evidence he provided suggested the injury was as a 
result of tripping over a toolbox at work. But that information wasnt provided to the medical 
professionals he obtained evidence from at the time he says it occurred. Rather it was 
information Mr N provided to them eight months after he said the event occurred. And Im 
not satisfied that Mr N has provided anything to suggest he sought medical assistance at the 
time of the event hes now claiming for.
Its of course quite possible that Mr N hurt his back during all the occasions hes described. 
But that doesnt mean AXA needs to cover his claim. The cause of the injury needs to be 
something sudden, unexpected, and specific rather than an accumulation of injuries. And in 
the absence of something contemporaneous to support this was the case, such as medical 
records from the time of a single injury that was the cause of the disablement, I cant say that 
AXA need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman