DRN-3894947
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has handled her re-mortgage 
application. After encountering many difficulties over a number of years, she was told the re- 
mortgage was finally going to go through, only to then be told it couldnt due to a legal issue 
that Ms A says Barclays had been aware of for a long time.
What happened
Ms A held a joint mortgage with her ex-partner. As part of the separation, she was looking to 
have the mortgage in her name only. Ms A has described how this has been a very stressful 
process over a long period of time, owing largely to difficulties posed by her ex-partner.
Ms A eventually received a court order which she believed meant that she would finally be 
able to proceed with the re-mortgage.
Ms A has been represented by a solicitor firm (who Ill call L) in relation to the re-mortgage 
and other matters (though not in a formal sense in relation to this complaint).
Barclays engaged one of its panel of solicitors (who Ill call E) to deal with the legal work 
from its perspective as the lender.
In May 2021, Barclays told Ms A that the re-mortgage was going ahead and completion was 
due in early June 2021.
However, during June 2021, the mortgage offer in place at that time needed to be re-keyed 
by Barclays because the offer was nearly expired. During this process something went 
wrong and the application was rejected in error. After Ms A complained Barclays upheld the 
complaint and it offered Ms A £200 to reflect what had happened. Barclays told her that it 
would still be able to offer her the re-mortgage.
Subsequent to this, Barclays continued to give Ms A the impression that the mortgage was 
proceeding. In July 2021, E wrote to L to say that it couldnt deal with the re-mortgage given 
the specific circumstances to do with the transfer of title and Ms As ex-partner retaining an 
interest in the property.
Barclays wrote to Ms A in August 2021 saying it was just awaiting certificate of title from L 
and asking if Ms A had an expected completion date in mind.
In September 2021, E wrote to Ms A to say that it needed an unredacted copy of the court 
order to be able to proceed. This was provided to E, after which it wrote to L to say that 
Barclays wouldnt proceed with the mortgage without an undertaking from E in relation to a 
perceived risk to do with issues relating to Ms As ex-partners ongoing interest in the 
property and land registry. L wasnt prepared to do this as it didnt think it necessary in the 
circumstances.
Ms A complained and Barclays responded to say that it was unable to proceed with the 
application due to a clause in the divorce. It apologised for the incorrect information Ms A 
had received (presumably being told the mortgage was proceeding when it ultimately didnt) 
and for the unnecessary stress and inconvenience.
Barclays later said that if Ms A wanted to proceed, she would need to appoint a solicitor on 
its panel, because it appeared that L was in a stalemate with E over a particular issue. 
Barclays also said that Ms A hadnt made it aware of her ex-husbands involvement in the 
property when she first spoke to it about the matter and that Ms A had already appointed a 
solicitor who wasnt on its panel. Barclays said that the application had gone through to offer 
but it was a legal issue preventing it from going ahead with the re-mortgage and that this 
wasnt down to any error that it or E had made.
Ms A remained unhappy and escalated her concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In summary, she said that she had made Barclays aware from outset of her circumstances 
so it wasnt true of Barclays to say it wasnt aware. She said that when Barclays told her it 
wouldnt proceed shortly after telling her everything was going as planned, this left her in a 
really difficult position and had a significant negative impact on her mental health. Ms A also 
said that Barclays hadnt been clear about what the issues were or what she needed to do.
An investigator reached a view on the complaint. In summary, they said that there was 
mention of Ms As ex-husband on the mortgage application made in December 2020, so 
Barclays did have awareness that Ms As ex-husband was involved.
The investigator said they didnt think it was fair for Barclays to insist that Ms A appoint a 
solicitor on its panel and thought that Barclays ought to have either appointed a specialist 
solicitor for the case or advised Ms A much sooner that it would be best to use a solicitor 
from its panel, due to the complexity of the case.
The investigator said that Barclays should pay an additional £300 in compensation to bring 
the total to £500.
Barclays initially didnt respond. Ms A did, saying she didnt agree. In summary, she said her 
main issue was that Barclays still hadnt explained what the issue was that prevented them 
from going ahead or what they required to proceed. She said that not being able to re- 
mortgage continued to cause her financial difficulties. Ms A also didnt think the amount of 
compensation was enough and that Barclays had caused delays, resulting in her incurring 
unnecessary additional legal costs.
Ms A then provided further submissions where she described the advice shed received from 
Barclays solicitors over time, to do with the need for her to obtain documentation 
transferring ownership of the property to her sole name. Ms A emphasised that Barclays was 
aware of the details of the court order. She also said that she had since been able to pay the 
mortgage off but might need to try to obtain another mortgage in future.
As the matter hadnt been resolved, it was passed to me to decide.
Barclays eventually let us know that it was prepared to pay the £500 compensation 
recommended by the investigator. I asked another investigator to let Ms A know this and to 
check whether this resolved matters for her. This was on the basis that, based on what Id 
looked at on the file to that point, it wasnt clear that I would necessarily be recommending 
any further compensation.
Ms A said she remained dissatisfied and she provided additional information in the form of 
correspondence between herself and Barclays, herself and L and also between L and E. 
She said this correspondence evidenced the delays on Barclays part, that L had told 
Barclays it should cover some of the fees it had charged Ms A (due to delays and also having done a u turn on requiring a transfer of title to take place before the re-mortgage go 
ahead) and that Barclays was aware of the court order at all stages.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in January 2023, in which I said I was provisionally 
minded to say that Barclays needed to pay £800 in addition to the £200 it had already 
offered in relation to the re-key error. I also said that Barclays would need to pay any 
unnecessary costs incurred by Ms A that were due to its errors and reasonably foreseeable. 
Here is an extract from the PD:
There are two fundamental issues in this case:
- Did Barclays treat Ms A fairly when dealing with her re-mortgage? In particular, did it 
sufficiently get to grips with the relevant issues at an early enough stage?
- If not, how and to what extent has this impacted Ms A in terms of any unnecessary costs 
incurred and unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused?
Did Barclays treat Ms A fairly?
This case turns on whether and when Barclays became aware (or ought to have been 
aware) of the issues and potential issues relating to the re-mortgage, given Ms As specific 
circumstances. Barclays says Ms A didnt make it aware of the issues relating to her ex- 
husband and that the legal issue spotted by E only came to light when E had sight of the 
unredacted court order and it doesnt consider that it made any error. Ms A says Barclays 
has been aware of her specific circumstances throughout.
Ive seen an e-mail from Ms A to L where she says she believes she had provided Barclays 
with a copy or copies of the court order at different times and from an early stage. Its 
possible this is the case, although there is currently no evidence to show if and when this did 
happen.
However, Ive also seen an e-mail from L to the mortgage adviser at Barclays in March 2021, 
where L enclosed/attached a copy of the title transfer. In the e-mail, L sets out that there is a 
restriction registered against the title requiring Barclays consent before the transfer could be 
registered. The e-mail sets out that the purpose of sending the document to Barclays was to 
get its approval to it. The e-mail ends with L setting out what it saw as the options going 
forwards and asked for a response as a matter of urgency.
Other information provided by Ms A shows her and L subsequently chasing Barclays for a 
response.
Whilst its not clear when Barclays first saw a copy of the actual court order, I think the e-mail 
from L to Barclays in March 2021 ought to have put Barclays on notice that there may be 
issues it would need to get to grips with much sooner than it did. It appears that the 
fundamental reason E advised much later in 2021 that Barclays shouldnt proceed with the 
re-mortgage was the issue to do with the restriction on title  something Barclays was aware 
of no later than March 2021.
This is where I consider that Barclays hasnt treated Ms A fairly and has caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and potentially costs she wouldnt otherwise have 
incurred.
To what extent has this impacted Ms A in terms of unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused?Had Barclays properly explored the issues of the restriction on title sooner than it did (which I 
think it should have), Ms A may well have ended up in the same place i.e. Barclays still 
wouldnt have provided her with the re-mortgage. However, this would have prevented Ms A 
from having false expectation over a number of months that the re-mortgage would be going 
ahead.
Barclays clearly isnt responsible for the very difficult circumstances Ms A was in, however 
given her circumstances and what Ms A has said, I think the impact of giving her false 
expectation over a number of months that the re-mortgage would happen was significant. 
Ms A has described that finding out the re-mortgage wouldnt be going ahead after months 
of being told it was going ahead left her with very poor mental health and feeling suicidal. 
Ive no reason to doubt this.
To what extent has this impacted Ms A in terms of any unnecessary costs?
Ms A has been advised by L that Barclays actions have caused her to incur costs she 
wouldnt have incurred if it had dealt with things properly. This appears to be in relation to L 
chasing Barclays for a response in relation to the transfer of title and also a suggestion that 
Barclays did a u turn as regards the need for the transfer of title to happen before the re- 
mortgage (with L saying Barclays initially gave the impression the transfer did need to 
happen first but that the nature of Es subsequent involvement then suggested otherwise).
From what Ive seen so far, I think Ms A would always have incurred some costs in terms of 
the work L was doing for her. However, if Ms A can demonstrate that she incurred costs that 
can be specifically linked to something Barclays has done wrong that she otherwise wouldnt 
have incurred and that were reasonably foreseeable - for example L needing to chase 
Barclays for a response to the correspondence sent in March  then in principle Barclays 
should cover these costs plus statutory interest.
In terms of the suggestion that Barclays u turned on the need for the transfer of title to 
happen before the re-mortgage could go ahead, its not clear to me why L is saying this. I 
also havent seen any evidence of specifically what caused L (or Ms A) to understand that 
Barclays required the transfer of title to happen first.
In terms of the £200 Barclays already offered to pay Ms A for the error when it re-keyed the 
application in June 2021. I currently think this represents a fair amount of compensation, 
bearing in mind that this particular issue was resolved quite quickly.
Finally, I know that Ms A feels as though Barclays hasnt provided a clear reason as to why it 
wasnt prepared to go ahead with the re-mortgage and wants to know what she would need 
to do if she wanted to obtain another mortgage in the future with Barclays or any other 
lender.
I think E did communicate the reason why it recommended that Barclays not proceed with 
the re-mortgage and in the end there was a stalemate between E and L.
As the mortgage has since been redeemed, its possible the restriction on title is no longer 
an issue. But regardless, as and when Ms A does wish to seek another mortgage in the 
future, I can only suggest that she be as up front and clear as possible about her specific 
circumstances with any lenders, to maximise her prospects of getting the borrowing she is 
seeking.
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 2 February 2023. 
Barclays didnt provide a response. Ms A responded to say that she thought my decision 
represented a reasonable resolution to her complaint. She said that in terms of getting a breakdown of costs, she was trying to get hold of the specific solicitor at L, as he had moved 
to a different firm. She said she was going to contact L to try to get contact details for the 
solicitor, but didnt know how long it would take for them to respond. 
The investigator told Ms A that we cant hold cases indefinitely and gave her until 9 February 
2023 to provide any further information. Ms A hasnt been in touch since. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Barclays didnt respond to my PD (which forms part of this decision) and that Ms A 
said she thought it represented a fair resolution to her complaint, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings upholding this complaint. 
I still find that the evidence suggests Barclays didnt sufficiently get to grips with important 
issues relating to Ms As application to re-mortgage. I still find that the e-mail from L to 
Barclays in March 2021 ought to have put Barclays on notice that there may be issues it 
would need to get to grips with much sooner than it did. It still seems that the fundamental 
reason E advised much later in 2021 that Barclays shouldnt proceed with the re-mortgage 
was the issue to do with the restriction on title  something Barclays was aware of no later 
than March 2021.
I still find that if Barclays had properly explored the issues of the restriction on title sooner 
than it did (which I still think it should have), Ms A may well have ended up in the same place 
i.e. Barclays still wouldnt have provided her with the re-mortgage. However, this would have 
prevented Ms A from having false expectation over a number of months that the re-mortgage 
would be going ahead.
Barclays clearly isnt responsible for the very difficult circumstances Ms A was in, however 
given her circumstances and what Ms A has said, I still think the impact of giving her false 
expectation over a number of months that the re-mortgage would happen was significant. 
Ms A has described that finding out the re-mortgage wouldnt be going ahead after months 
of being told it was going ahead left her with very poor mental health and feeling suicidal. 
Ive no reason to doubt this.
In terms of costs, I still find that Ms A would likely always have incurred some costs in terms 
of the work L was doing for her. In terms of the suggestion that Barclays u turned on the 
need for the transfer of title to happen before the re-mortgage could go ahead, its still not 
clear to me why L is saying this. I also still havent seen any evidence of specifically what 
caused L (or Ms A) to understand that Barclays required the transfer of title to happen first.
That aside, although Ms A hasnt yet been able to provide evidence of unnecessary costs 
she incurred as a result of Barclays errors, if she can demonstrate that she incurred costs 
that can be specifically linked to something Barclays has done wrong that she otherwise 
wouldnt have incurred and that were reasonably foreseeable, Barclays should cover these 
costs plus statutory interest. 
In terms of the £200 Barclays already offered to pay Ms A for the error when it re-keyed the 
application in June 2021. I still find that this represents a fair amount of compensation, 
bearing in mind that this particular issue was resolved quite quickly.Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays must:
- Pay Ms A £800 to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by its 
errors. This is in addition to the £200 already offered for the re-key error.
- Pay Ms A for any unnecessary costs she incurred as a result of Barclays errors, that 
were reasonably foreseeable, plus 8% interest from the point she incurred the cost(s) 
to the point of settlement. Ms A should provide details of any such costs to Barclays. 
For any costs that Barclays doesnt think were unnecessary, caused by its errors and 
reasonably foreseeable (bearing in mind my findings), it must explain its rationale to 
Ms A. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms As complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC and I direct 
it to do what Ive said above under putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman