DRN-4350299
The complaint
Mr and Ms W complain about what happened when they tried to make an overpayment onto 
their mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Ms W said Barclays repeatedly told her to go 
into a branch, even after shed explained this wasnt suitable for her.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Ms W, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Ms W, who was trying to make the overpayment in 
question here from a sole account in her name. So Ill mainly refer to her in this decision.
Ms W told us she uses online banking for her transactions. At the start of September, she
wanted to make a mortgage overpayment, and had been told she could do this through a
transfer using online banking. But she wasnt able to make the payment, instead she just got
repeated error messages.
Ms W said she spoke to the mortgage department a number of times, and they couldnt help.
They suggested she make the transfer by phone, but two different teams within Barclays
werent able to take payment for her. The mortgage department suggested she should go
into a branch.
Ms W has been told that the error code she can see is because Barclays system isnt
picking up that she has a mortgage account. But she can see her mortgage account when
she logs in to online banking. Ms W told us the mortgage team said a member of their
technical department would call, and try to help with this problem. They said shed get a call
within 24 to 48 hours. But they never called.
Ms W said she didnt want to go into a branch, because she doesnt drive, and as her local
branch has closed, this means a difficult trip on public transport. She also told us about a
health condition that makes attending a branch difficult for her. 
Ms W said she had managed to make the overpayment online, as a payment rather than a 
transfer. She said it was very stressful for her, as this generated a message saying Barclays
did not recognise the account she was paying into, and she was making the payment at her
own risk. Ms W felt shed been warned that Barclays would not be responsible if the
payment did not go through. And it was a large amount of money, so Ms W said she was 
very worried about this. She made a small payment of £1 first, followed by incrementally 
larger payments. These did reach her mortgage account, but she said this process still 
caused her a great deal of anxiety.
Ms W said shed never had a reply to her complaint. But when this case came to us,
Barclays said it had written to her. In that letter, it offered her £100 and a hamper, to say
sorry for the difficulties shed had with the overpayment. Barclays said it hadnt been able to
identify any errors, and it asked her to send screenshots of the problem, so it could
investigate further.
Ms W said that wasnt helpful. She said her health issues meant she couldnt accept the
offer of a hamper. But more importantly, Ms W said the problem hadnt actually been fixed.
She still gets the same error message when trying to make mortgage overpayments online.
She also said that, since the problems she experienced trying to pay over the phone, no one
had suggested she would be able to make payments in that way in future either. So it looked
as if she would just run in to the same problems next year.
Ms W said shed still never had the promised call back from Barclays technical team. And
she didnt think Barclays should be insisting that she, or other people with mobility issues,
should be told to go into a branch to get help with problems.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Ms W wanted to make an
overpayment promptly, so she could do so without incurring an early repayment charge. She
hadnt been able to, and she had spent a lot of frustrating time on the phone trying to resolve
the issue. Shed been told what the error code meant, but hadnt received the promised call
back from the IT or technical team to help.
Our investigator said that Barclays had asked our service for a screenshot of the error to
investigate further. Hed sent that, but Barclays hadnt responded.
Our investigator noted that Barclays had told Ms W she could pay directly from a different
bank, and provided details to do that. Or she could go into branch, but Ms W had already
explained why she would prefer to avoid that. Our investigator said he couldnt see Barclays
had offered to take payment by cheque, or told Ms W how to do this.
Our investigator said that Ms W may want to make overpayments each year, and she was
concerned this problem would just keep happening. So our investigator said that Barclays
should pay Ms W £150 in compensation, instead of the £100 it had offered. And he wanted
Barclays technical or IT team to contact Ms W to resolve the issue and ensure it doesnt
happen again. He said that Barclays should call Ms W before 13 May 2023.
Ms W didnt want to accept this resolution to her complaint right away. She was concerned
Barclays wouldnt call. She said she just wasnt able to go into a branch, as her health
condition had since deteriorated. So she could only pay from another account, which
Barclays says she does at her own risk. That was stressful when large amounts were
involved. Ms W also repeated that she wasnt able to use the hamper, so asked if she could
have a payment instead.
Barclays said it would pay the £150 in compensation that our investigator suggested. And it
would replace the offered hamper with an additional £75 in compensation. But Ms W said
the deadline for Barclays to call her had passed, and no one had contacted her. So she
didnt want to settle this complaint. She felt what had happened was discriminatory. She said
she hadnt been offered an appointment in branch, shed just been told to go in and speak to
someone. Ms W said that at the time, she was unable to stand in a queue.
Barclays said its technical team hadnt been able to identify any known issue and the access
on the account seemed to be correct. It said that unfortunately, with technical issues, it often
needs customers to try again, so that it can see if the issue persists. Barclays asked whether
Ms W was still having problems, and if she could send further screenshots of any error.
Our investigator pressed Barclays to call Ms W, as it had already offered and he then
requested, but it returned to suggesting that she go into a branch. Barclays did, however,
finally respond to our investigators question about how Ms W could pay by cheque. So she
does now have that option too.
Ms W said the information on how to pay by cheque was useful, but it had come ninemonths too late, and was only provided after pressure by our service. Ms W said she was
concerned that Barclays was discriminating against the less physically able, and she wanted
it to change this practice. She said it just wasnt good enough that Barclays was refusing to
engage on the technical issue.
Ms W wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I have listened to a number of calls that Ms W had with Barclays, where she has 
patiently sought to resolve this issue, without success. So I can understand that Ms W 
would be deeply frustrated by Barclays failure to resolve this issue for her, and by its 
repeated suggestions that she go into a branch, which Ms W was clear when she made 
her complaint was not a suitable resolution for her.
I think that, although Ms W still isnt able to transfer money directly across from her 
account to her mortgage (in the way Ive heard Barclays repeatedly tell her should be 
possible) she does now, finally, have some options for making overpayments on her 
mortgage. She is able to make a direct payment, and although this is a little more 
stressful than an internal transfer, she does have the comfort that this has worked 
before. And she also now, finally, has the details to pay by cheque. So I think she is able 
to make overpayments on to her mortgage in future.
I know that Ms Ws account isnt working the way it should. But Barclays wont agree to 
contact Ms W to try to resolve this, even though I have heard it offer to do so directly to 
her on a recorded phone call, and our investigator then strongly suggested it should do, 
in order to resolve this complaint.
I dont think it would assist here for me to seek to compel Barclays to contact Ms W 
about this problem. Thats not solely because of its reluctance to do so, but also 
because Im not able to say whether or not Barclays can actually fix whatever is wrong 
here. There must be some doubt about that, as Barclays has told us it has investigated, 
and it cant see whats wrong. So Ill bear in mind that the current position is, and is likely 
to remain, that Ms W cant just operate her accounts in the way that other customers 
can, because of a technical problem at Barclays.
I think that leaves me needing to consider how Barclays has handled this complaint. 
And I do not think that Ms W has been provided with an acceptable level of service in 
this case. 
Barclays repeatedly defaulted to telling Ms W that she could make the payment in 
branch. Having listened to a number of calls where Barclays suggested other options for 
making payments (through transfers, over the phone, via a different department) which 
did not work, I can understand why Ms W expressed doubts that attending a branch 
would finally resolve this issue. But more importantly, Ms W did explain that this would 
have been particularly difficult for her. I think it was particularly unhelpful in this case that 
Barclays then continued to suggest that Ms W should go into a branch (in the later 
stages, suggesting she also takes her computer with her) even after both Ms W and our 
service had explained why this would not be suitable for her.Ms W feels that Barclays is discriminating against less physically able customers. I 
should explain here that our service doesnt have the power to make a finding on 
whether an act amounts to discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. That is 
something only the Courts can do. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things 
into account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. So I can make a finding on whether Ms W was treated fairly. And 
when Im doing that, Ill consider relevant rules and legislation alongside the 
circumstances of the case.
In this case, I do not think Ms Ws problem with making payments on her mortgage has 
been well managed. It is worth noting that many of the people Ms W spoke to at 
Barclays initially did try hard to resolve this problem for her. But overall, I think Barclays 
let her down.
I dont think the payment of compensation that Barclays has agreed to make, to date, 
reflects the full impact of this complaint. In considering compensation in this case, I have 
to bear in mind how much time this has taken up for Ms W, and how frustrating this has 
been for her. I also need to consider that Ms W feels the banks actions go beyond poor 
customer service and that she has been discriminated against. I can understand why Ms 
W feels this way, and I have to take account of the effect that Barclays repeated 
suggestion that Ms W should attend a branch (even after she explained why she isnt 
able to do this) was not only unhelpful and inappropriate, it is also likely to have had a 
significant impact on someone who was dealing with the increasing restrictions of a 
deteriorating health condition. I dont think Barclays has grasped how its actions have 
made Ms W feel.
I also have to bear in mind that Barclays has told us that its technical team will not be
contacting Ms W about the issues shes experiencing - despite agreeing to this 
previously. I think its clear that Ms W has experienced a problem, and I accept what 
shes told us about continuing to do so. But Barclays has told us that the access on the 
account seems correct, and it cant see whats wrong. So it now appears that there is 
very little prospect of the underlying problem being resolved. The position appears likely 
to remain that Ms W doesnt have the same choices about how to make mortgage 
overpayments as Barclays other customers.
For those reasons, I think that Barclays should pay rather more compensation than it 
has suggested in this case. I think a total payment of £750 would be appropriate here. 
That would include the payment that Barclays previously agreed to make, and the 
payment it suggested as a substitute for a hamper it offered previously. I think that 
would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W replied to accept my provisional decision. She said she thought this was a very fair 
assessment of the situation, and £750 would be reasonable compensation for her time and 
energy spent on this, and her frustration when trying to deal with Barclays. She also said she 
hoped Barclays would review its treatment of less able-bodied clients. She said she felt completely unheard. And she also noted that Barclays could have saved all this trouble by 
telling her she could write a cheque for the overpayment.
Barclays wrote asking me to reconsider, and saying it would like to offer some further details. 
Barclays said Ms W first tried to make this payment on 2 September. Barclays said it 
couldnt have been earlier, because Ms W hadnt moved the money from her other bank, into 
this account, until then. 
Barclays said its agent called Ms W on 6 September, to help with the overpayment. They 
tried to use Barclays Single Overpayment process, but that didnt work due to an IT issue, 
and the agent suggested Ms W contact the online banking helpdesk. 
Barclays said its agent called Ms W on 7 September, and suggested she use the Make A 
Payment option. Ms W started to do this, but she only got part-way through. Then the 
Confirmation of Payee system said it couldnt confirm the account where her payment was 
going. So Ms W didnt complete the payment. 
Barclays said it could see Ms W did make a payment on 22 September. It said since then 
she has been able to make any future payments. Barclays said it couldnt see any 
unsuccessful attempts. It said the payment was completed after a telephone conversation 
Barclays had with Ms W. 
Barclays said it understood that Ms W was disappointed the Single Overpayment process 
didnt work, but the Make a Payment option was working, and doesnt take any extra effort 
to use. When Ms W first used this option, she was paying a new account and needed to 
enter the account number and payment reference. Barclays said its mortgage accounts are 
not included in the Confirmation of Payee system, so Ms W got a message saying Barclays 
was unable to verify the payee. But now shes made a payment, this account would be on 
her list of payees, so she doesnt need to fill in these details again, and can carry out her 
payments quickly. 
Barclays said the only other contact attempt it could see since 22 September 2022 was on14 
November 2022 when Barclays tried to talk to Ms W about her complaint. But it couldnt 
reach her then, so it wrote to her. 
Barclays said it was sending through partial transcripts for some of its calls with Ms W. It 
thought these showed that Ms W hadnt told it about her vulnerabilities until after it had 
suggested she go into a branch. Barclays didnt think Ms W had told it about this until she 
sent a complaint to its CEO. So Barclays didnt agree that its requests for Ms W to visit a 
branch didnt take account of Ms Ws vulnerabilities. It said when it was talking to her on the 
phone, it didnt know about that. 
Barclays had previously sent us a call where Ms W asked how to make an overpayment, on 
30 August. On this call the agent mentions that call waiting times were very long at that time, 
because Barclays was incredibly busy around this time.
The call recordings after this, that Barclays has sent us, do not include any calls from 6 
September. They do include four separate call recordings for 7 September, and another four 
call recordings for 22 September. 
Barclays said it thought Ms W had spent around 1 hour 50 minutes in total during all her 
calls with it in September, including wait times and call transfers. Barclays has sent our 
service recordings during September which total over an hour, and those recordings also 
refer to other calls, both successful calls and calls where Ms W gave up after a long period on hold before she got an answer. It doesnt seem likely that Ms Ws total call time during 
this month, including time spent on hold, was under two hours.
I have listened again to these calls, and I appreciate that Ms W didnt flag at an early stage 
that she was not easily able to attend a branch. I think its most likely that Ms W simply didnt 
want to raise her vulnerability with Barclays at this stage. 
But Barclays acknowledges that Ms W had told it as part of her complaint that she had 
reduced mobility, so attending a branch wasnt suitable for her. And it also acknowledges 
that when this case came to us, Ms W still wasnt able to make a payment directly from her 
Barclays account to her mortgage, using Barclays own internal transfer system. So it isnt 
clear why Barclays complaint handler would tell our service, even after our investigator had 
issued a view, that the solution to this problem would be for Ms W to attend a branch. 
Barclays also hasnt explained why, after it offered Ms W a call to assist her with the 
technical problems she was having, it then repeatedly refused to ring her about this issue, 
including after it had understood she wasnt easily able to attend a branch.
For those reasons, I still think that when it was proposing solutions to the problem Ms W has 
experienced, using Barclays own internal payment transfer system, Barclays didnt take 
account of Ms Ws reduced mobility. And I still think that Barclays should make the payment 
I previously proposed. For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now 
make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Ms W a total of £750 in 
compensation. Barclays Bank UK PLC can count towards that amount any compensation it 
has already paid to Mr and Ms W in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman