DRN-4019692
The complaint
Mr K has complained about delays and the amount esure Insurance Limited has paid to 
settle an escape of water claim he made under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K reported a leak to his home in July 2022. Mr K obtained estimates from contractors to 
carry out the repairs which esure didnt accept as they said they were excessive. 
There was back and forth between Mr K, esure and its loss adjuster (LA). In November 2022 
Mr K proceeded with works to repair his home using his preferred contractors. 
esure said it would settle his claim by paying the original settlement offer in line with its LAs 
Scope of Works estimate. 
Mr K thought this was unfair. He said he couldnt wait any longer for repairs to be done and 
felt esure was trying to avoid meeting his claim. Mr K said in a call with esure he asked if 
starting the works would prejudice his position and was advised no.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure had 
acted reasonably and in line with the policy. While there were some delays, he found most 
were unavoidable due to the dispute between Mr K and esure about the estimates for the 
works. 
Mr K didnt agree. So he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Investigator set out a detailed timeline of events and so I dont intend to repeat it in my 
decision. 
Mr K doesnt agree most of the delays were unavoidable. And he says he was advised that if 
he went ahead with the works he wouldnt prejudice his position with being reimbursed. 
There are times when Mr K called for an update with esure. But overall I dont think esure is 
responsible for unreasonable delays. It had concerns about the validity and amounts quoted 
in the estimates provided by Mr K. Its LA couldnt agree the costs and so passed the claim 
back to esure. 
On further review of the estimates, as a way forward esure offered to use an independent 
contractor appointed by it to do the work, as it found the estimates excessive. But Mr K didnt 
agree to this. So esure said it would need to send an independent contractor out to the 
property to assess if the estimates were reasonable. 
In a call on 21 November 2022 Mr K expressed his dissatisfaction with the length of time it 
was taking to settle his claim. And he was unhappy with the next stage. The agent said she 
would mark the request as urgent and pass it back to the LA to arrange for the contractor to 
visit to compare costs. 
Having listened to this call, there is no discussion about Mr K arranging for works to start - or 
what it would mean for his claim if this happened before the contractor attended. So I dont 
have any evidence to show esure advised Mr K he wouldnt prejudice his position if he 
started works. 
On 22 November 2022 the LA called Mr K to say it would arrange for a contractor to visit. In 
an email dated 24 November 2022 provided by Mr K, his preferred contractor confirmed 
starting works on 28 November 2022. 
I think some of the delays were avoidable - but equally I think esure was entitled to ask 
questions about the estimates it received - given the difference in price between them and 
the Scope provided by the LA. And it offered for an independent contractor to carry out the 
works, which Mr K refused. And having decided to proceed with the works before a 
contractor visited to compare the estimated costs with the Scope, I do find Mr K therefore 
prejudiced his position. 
I appreciate that Mr K was frustrated with the time it was taking to settle his claim. When a 
claim is made, its reasonable to expect some disruption and time to agree a settlement , 
particularly where a customer chooses their own contractor and there is a disagreement 
about the costs. In this case, the difference in costs from the estimates was around 50% 
compared to the Scope of Works, so it was significant. 
This means I cant safely conclude that esure acted unreasonably in the way it settled Mr Ks 
claim. As the works had been completed before it had approved the costs under the 
estimates, esure paid a settlement based on the original claim sum including VAT and minus 
the excess. I think this was a reasonable outcome in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K. But my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman