DRN-3186133
The complaint
Mr S complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link), trading as Thesis Servicing, 
failed to cancel a student loan when he reached the age of 50.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S has a mortgage style student loan which is now managed and administered by Link. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as such this service can consider 
complaints about it.
The loan agreement allowed for:
cancellation of repayments (so long as you are not in breach of any obligation to us) if (i) 
you are aged under forty when you last enter an agreement to borrow from us and you attain 
age fifty or all or part of your last borrowing from us has been outstanding for at least twenty 
five years
As Mr S was under 40 when last entered an agreement to borrow and reached the age of 50 
on 3 February 2017 he says the agreement should have been cancelled with nothing more 
to pay.
But Link have explained that there were arrears on the account when Mr S reached the age 
of 50 and that Mr S was therefore in breach of his obligation. In those circumstances they 
say the loan cannot be cancelled.
Link say the periods in which arrears built up were from 25 June 2015 to 24 September 2015 
and from 25 September 2017 to 24 August 2019 when they say there was no deferment in 
place.
Arrears 25 June 2015 to 24 September 2015
Link wrote to Mr S on 30 April 2015 to tell him his deferment period would end on 24 June 
2015. As they didnt receive adequate information from Mr S about his income a new 
deferment wasnt approved until December 2015. Link subsequently agreed to backdate that 
referral for three months to September 2015 but that left payments from 25 June 2015 to 24 
September 2015 in arrears.
Mr S has suggested that these were waived as a gesture of good will but the notes dont 
support that. I think its likely Mr S was aware there were arrears on his account as a system 
note explains that in January 2016 Link called him and discussed the arrears and a possible 
repayment plan.
So, on the evidence thats been provided I am persuaded that the account was in arrears 
when Mr S reached 50 and in those circumstances he was in breach of his obligations and 
payments couldnt be cancelled.
Arrears 25 September 2017 to 24 August 2019
When the 2017 deferral period ended in September 2017 as Mr S hadnt paid the arrears on 
the account further arrears built up until a further deferral was put in place in August 2019. I 
can see that Link attempted to call, text and email Mr S to chase those arrears and I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest any deferral was in place at that time. I think its reasonable 
to suggest Mr S would have been aware his loan hadnt been cancelled at that point as he 
had been made aware of the arrears on his account.
Overall, I dont think theres sufficient evidence Link have done anything wrong here and Im 
not asking them to take any additional action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman