DRN-3759914
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money that he didnt transfer from his 
account.
What happened
Mr H says that he was abroad, and his mobile phone was stolen. He contacted HSBC and 
says he asked it to block his account. He says that it didnt do so and that over £6,100 of 
money was transferred out. He wants a refund.
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that when Mr H called, its 
representative had confirmed that no action was needed to protect his account other than to 
block the card which was set up to make mobile card payments. It had taken the correct 
steps but apologised if what it had done was not clear at the time. The payments in question 
required Face-ID and Mr H had said he'd never provided his log on details to anyone or had 
written anything down that may allow access to a third party. HSBC noted that a loan 
application in his name hadnt been granted but an overdraft had been applied to the 
account which he could cancel if he didnt want to use it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Mr H had told 
her that his phone was protected with biometrics and a passcode. There was no explanation 
of how someone had managed to bypass this and learn Mr Hs online banking security 
details as he said that these werent stored on the phone. The mobile number to his account 
was changed but this was only after a successful login. The money was mostly sent to       
Mr Hs account at a different financial business which was unusual rather than it being sent 
to a third party.
Mr H didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he was the fraud 
victim. He had now appointed a representative who put forward further comments on his 
behalf. It is said that Mr H did the right thing by reporting his phone stolen and said it was 
protected with Face ID. The prudent action would have been for HSBC to block his internet 
banking and had it done so these payments couldnt have happened. It was thought relevant 
that the beneficiary of the first two payments was a software company that was now 
dissolved. The representative said that the people who commit fraud are the experts in it. 
Two articles about facial recognition are provided and it is said that this method isnt infallible 
and there is a risk of facial spoofing. The representative stated I am sure the fraudster took 
Mr [Hs] picture from different angles before he stole the phone. The representative went on 
to assert If you can say 100% that facial recognition cannot be interfered with but you would 
need to back this up with facts then fine. If you cannot do this then HSBC has been negligent 
in their duty and should refund his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely 
applying a balance of probabilities test. It is a matter for the parties in the complaint to 
provide evidence and where thought necessary including from experts to support their case. 
And this service isnt a court and provides informal dispute resolution. 
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with security details. And if the payments werent 
authorised Mr H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr H either authorise the payments on the account, which could have involved 
allowing someone else to use it?
- Did HSBC act reasonably?
Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated with Mr Hs security details. There were 
two initial payments to a third party for £500 and £1,000 on 26 March 2022. This was a 
newly created beneficiary. And the same day payments of £1,000 and £2,107 made to an 
account Mr H has at a different financial business. On 29 March 2022 £1,500 was refunded 
to his account seemingly from the first beneficiary. And that money too was sent to his own 
account that day leaving no money at all. Mr H reported what had happened later that day 
having gone into a branch.
The issue is whether Mr H consented to these payments. Ive listened to the call he had with 
HSBC about his lost phone on 25 March 2022. His worry was that his bank card details had 
been stored with a mobile payment method on his phone. But there was no indication that 
access to his phone or his security details had been compromised. And hes confirmed to 
this service that these werent written down, stored in his phone or given to anyone else. I 
only heard the person at HSBC say his card would be blocked from that point. 
The log in to his account on 26 March 2022 is recorded as being made with unique device 
details used for past undisputed access to the account. HSBC has shown that Face ID was 
used to access the app. The evidence that an unknown third party was able to impersonate 
Mr H in some way here is lacking. It seems to be put forward on his behalf that pictures of 
him from different angles would need to have been taken before his phone was stolen. 
There is no certainty as asserted on his behalf that this happened or even likelihood based 
on the evidence. And while it isnt in doubt that fraudsters will always be looking to breach 
systems there is no expert evidence to say that this could and did happen in this case. The 
articles provided generally refer to the need for high standards and the potential risks. 
HSBC clearly seeks to rely on its security systems and doesnt accept or detect that there 
was any breach here.
Im also looking more widely at what happened and whether thats consistent with the 
actions of a third-party fraudster.
As I said a new beneficiary was created, and money sent. I cant assume anything about the 
name/ business of that payee. And as third-party payments were possible I also cant see 
why a fraudster would have gone to the trouble of sending money to a different account held 
by Mr H too. And as I set out above that money from the new beneficiary appeared to be 
returned on 29 March 2022 and then sent on to the other account in Mr Hs name. I cant 
see thats the likely action of a fraudster. What happened to the money after that and what 
that financial business did is subject to a separate complaint involving that business which 
Im not looking at here. I also note the application for credit which wasnt successfully used 
here.Id expect a fraudster (and what it seems to be stated on Mr Hs behalf would need to be an 
expert here) to have taken all the money as quickly as possible. And Ive set out what 
happened, and the fraudster risked detection and the account being blocked at any time.
Any details on the HSBC account werent changed until 27 March 2022, after the initial 
payments had been made and as our investigator says required access online in any event. 
So, they dont really help in establishing that the account was compromised by a third party.
Having balanced all the factors I dont think its most likely that an unknown third party was 
able to make these payments as Mr H says happened and so that these payments werent 
authorised by him in some way. Given that finding the question of whether HSBC ought to 
have blocked the account online doesnt have the same relevance. So, I find it was 
reasonable for HSBC to hold Mr H responsible for the payments and not to have taken any 
other action.
I appreciate the amount of money at stake here for Mr H. And how disappointed he will be 
by this outcome. If he doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter in 
court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman