DRN-4331535
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way in which Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a claim made on
her travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision in August 2023 explaining why I was intending to partially 
uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes to pay Ms M £450 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any further information they 
wanted me to consider in response to my provisional decision. Neither Great Lakes nor Ms 
replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold it. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and 
promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
Great Lakes accepted in October 2022 that it couldve provided Ms M with better
service and that there were unnecessary delays when assessing her claim. By this
stage, she hadnt received a decision on her claim, which had been submitted to
Great Lakes around a year before in late 2021.
Great Lakes is entitled to validate the claim being made and ask for further
information. But I dont think it did this as promptly as it ought to have. It seems like
the claim wasnt progressed for many months.
After October 2022, Im also satisfied that upon requesting further information from
Ms M she provided this to Great Lakes reasonably promptly.
The claim was declined towards the end of 2022 because Great Lakes concluded the
claim related to a pre-existing medical condition and this hadnt been declared before
taking out the policy. So, the medical costs being claimed for werent covered. I make
no finding on whether it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim
for this reason. Thats because in February 2023 it declined the claim for a further
reason after Ms M contested the initial reason put forward by Great Lakes.
Great Lakes concluded in February 2023 that although Ms M had the benefit of a
worldwide annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy, the definition of worldwide
expressly listed the country Ms M had visited as one of the countries which the policy
didnt cover. So, it wouldnt cover the medical costs incurred by Ms M whilst on a trip
to that country. Im satisfied that Great Lakes has fairly relied on the terms of the
policy to decline the claim for this reason.
However, Great Lakes was made aware of the country Ms M had visited when
making the claim. Im satisfied it ought to have identified that the claim wasnt
covered then, rather than declining the claim for this reason around 18 months after
the claim had been submitted.
Im persuaded that Ms M incurred unnecessary distress and inconvenience by the
delays incurred by Great Lakes. Although the claim wasnt covered, she was put to
the unnecessary inconvenience of having to obtain further information in support of
her claim (including from her GP) and having to contest the initial reason put forward
by Great Lakes to decline the claim. Im persuaded it wouldve been frustrating for Ms
M to discover that this couldve all been avoided, and she couldve been provided
certainty about the outcome of her claim much sooner, if Great Lakes had promptly
identified that the country shed visited wasnt covered under the policy. I dont
currently think £250 compensation recommended by our investigator is enough to
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience experienced. I think £450 is a
fairer reflection of this.
Putting things right
I direct Great Lakes to pay Ms M £450 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman