DRN-2753540
The complaint
Miss F complains that Aviva Health UK Limited declined her claim against her private 
medical insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in April 2019, Miss F took out a policy with Aviva. Miss F first 
contacted Aviva in June 2019 about a claim relating to a gastroscopy procedure. In 
September 2019, Miss F had a gastroscopy which revealed stomach cancer and in 
October 2019 she received a confirmed diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the stomach. 
In October 2019, Miss F pursued her claim against her policy. In November 2019, Aviva 
declined her claim. It said that Miss Fs claim was for a pre-existing condition and caught 
by the moratorium provision in the policy.
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which 
provides as follows:
Moratorium (this is sometimes known as mori)
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, 
if you had:
symptoms of
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
However, we will cover a pre-existing condition if you do not have:
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or 
advice about
that condition during a continuous two year period after you join the policy.
Pre-existing condition is defined as:
 Any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication, advice or treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not before you joined the policy.
My role isnt to substitute the medical judgment of any of the medical professionals 
involved in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence Ive 
been provided with to decide whether I think Aviva handled Miss Fs claim fairly and 
reasonably. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
concluding that Miss F had symptoms of adenocarcinoma of the stomach in the five 
years before the policy start date. Ill explain why.
Miss Fs GP notes of 20 February 2019 record that Miss F had a six months history 
of feeling bloated, early satiety and nausea. The report of 20 February 2019 from the 
ultrasound department and the diagnostic imaging report of 21 March 2019 show that 
Miss F had symptoms of bloating, abdominal pains, early satiety and pain. I dont 
think that Aviva was at fault in concluding that these were symptoms of Miss Fs later 
diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the stomach. I dont think that the diagnosis of a 
Few small nonobstructing biliary calculi (gallstones) in March 2019 alters that.  
I dont agree with Miss F says that Avivas literature is unclear. I think the moratorium 
underwriting is explained in the policy documentation. And the separate firm which 
recommended the policy to Miss F referred to moratorium underwriting and explained 
what that meant when she took out the policy. 
Miss F says that she wasnt diagnosed with adenocarcinoma until September 2019, 
but thats not the determining factor here. The central issue is whether Miss F had 
symptoms of that condition in the five years before the start date of the policy. I dont 
think that Aviva was at fault in concluding that the medical evidence suggests that 
she did. And as there hasnt been a period of two years in a row since the start of the 
policy trouble-free from that condition, Aviva didnt act unfairly in declining Miss Fs 
claim.  
     
Miss F asks for irrefutable medical evidence that theres a link between her earlier 
symptoms and her later cancer diagnosis. But thats not the relevant test. The 
determining question is whether Aviva was at fault in concluding that Miss F had 
symptoms of the condition in the five years before the start date of the policy. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think it was. So, I dont think it treated Miss F unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining her claim.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman