DRN-1710117
The complaint
Mr Cs unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds actions in relation to his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr C had to make a claim on his motor insurance policy. On 7 August 2019 Mr C was told 
his claim wouldnt be covered as it was a mechanical breakdown which was excluded under 
his policy. Mr C accepted this. But then on 8 August 2019 Mr C was called again by Ageas, 
told his claim had been accepted, and the money was paid into his account. 
Ageas realised this was a mistake and the following day asked for the money to be returned, 
accepting theyd made an error. Mr C asked for a call back, and Ageas left several 
voicemails explaining if he didnt return the money then they may take legal action. Several 
days later when Ageas did speak to Mr C, he explained hed taken legal advice and 
understood he didnt need to return the money.
During this time Mr Cs car was being stored and incurring storage costs because of the 
dispute.
As Ageas continued to ask Mr C to repay the money, he asked us to look into things. One of 
our investigators did so. She found that Ageas were right to ask Mr C to repay the money, 
but felt it was more appropriate for Ageas and Mr C to agree to a repayment plan to do so. 
She also felt because this issue only came up because Ageas made an error, that Mr C 
shouldnt be responsible for any of the storage costs, and they should pay him £200 
compensation.
Ageas ultimately accepted the £200 compensation recommendation and agreed Mr C 
shouldnt be responsible for the storage costs. But they had concerns there were no time 
limits set out for the agreement of the repayment plan between them and Mr C  they said 
hed not engaged with them during this process, so were questioning how long matters 
should be left for. Our investigator said eight weeks was a reasonable time for Ageas and 
Mr C to come to an agreement.
Mr C also replied, but said he wasnt happy with the outcome as he felt like he was being 
penalised for someone elses mistake. Because of this the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the reason Ageas have turned down Mr Cs claim. This was for 
mechanical breakdown. Looking at the policy, and all of the engineers notes, this appears to 
be a fair decision  and something Mr C says he accepts.
So, the key issue here to decide is whether Mr C is required to repay the money Ageas sent 
him in error. At this stage I think itd help to explain our service works on a fair and 
reasonable basis  and if incorrect information is given we dont treat it necessarily as 
binding on either party. Wed look at the impact of that incorrect information being given. And 
for reasons Ill go on to explain, Im satisfied Ageas are entitled to ask Mr C to repay the 
money.
In the initial phone call when Mr Cs claim was turned down he accepted the outcome. He 
also says he worked in insurance so has some knowledge of how things work.
The following day Ageas phoned Mr C back and paid out on the claim. The next day, they 
realised theyd made a mistake, and called Mr C again asking him to return the money.
Mr Cs arguments, to Ageas and our service, is that it was their mistake so he doesnt see 
why he should pay the money back. So, hes not arguing he was due this money in the first 
place. With that in mind, and because Ageas made a fair decision to turn down his claim, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for Ageas to ask that he repay the money  because it never 
should have been paid to him in the first place.
I also agree its reasonable to set up a payment plan to repay the money, and Im pleased to 
see Ageas saw this early on in our process and accepted it. I can see our investigator 
proposed an eight period in which for Ageas and Mr C to come to this agreement. This 
seems like a reasonable time period as it allows Mr C four weeks to consider my decision, 
and then a further four weeks in order to agree matters with Ageas. 
I think its helpful to make Mr C aware Ageas have left no doubt theyll pursue matters further 
if Mr C doesnt work with them to pay this money back. Thats their right, and its not for me 
to comment on it further. And while I cant order Mr C to do anything like I can with Ageas I 
will encourage Mr C to engage with this process. 
Ive seen some storage costs were generated, and initially Ageas were going to ask Mr C to 
repay these. But I can also see Ageas have since accepted theyre not going to ask him for 
this. Given the error was Ageas in the first place, I think theyve since acted fairly by saying 
they wont ask him to repay those costs.
Ive also noted compensation of £200 was recommended by our investigator which Ageas 
have accepted they should pay. Mr Cs not commented on this  but Im satisfied it fairly 
reflects the inconvenience Mr C has been put to.
Putting things right
Ageas need to:
Engage with Mr C to agree a repayment plan  this should be completed within eight 
weeks of the date of this decision
Pay Mr C £200 compensation.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint and order Ageas Insurance Limited to carry out the 
actions in the Putting things right section above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman