DRN-1649949
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy that Mr and Mrs B took out 
in connection with a mortgage theyd arranged in 1984. Halifax can't say for sure when the 
policy was sold, but it's provided evidence to show that it started in 1990. The policy 
provided cover for Mr B if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-    If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
-    Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs B the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs B say they didn't ask for the PPI, and that Halifax didn't make them aware it was 
optional. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Halifax hasn't been able to provide much information from 
the time the policy was sold, which isn't surprising given the amount of time that's passed. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs B have told me, I don't think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax can't say for sure how the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs B, but it's willing to accept 
that it advised them to take it out. It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable for them based 
on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
There is nothing to suggest Mr B wasn't eligible for the policy.
Mr B wasn't entitled to sick pay if he couldnt work because of sickness or accident. 
So the PPI would've provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs B if things went wrong. 
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits. Even 
though Mr B has told me he was self-employed, this wouldn't have prevented him 
from making a successful unemployment claim on the policy. As Mr B could have 
benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs B needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs B before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy.
I've noted what Mr B has said about the critical illness cover he says took out with a different 
insurer when the mortgage was arranged. I am very sorry to hear about the ill health Mr B 
has suffered, and the claim he had to make on that insurance.
I can see why Mr B might think the PPI wasn't necessary because of the critical illness cover 
he had in place. But I think it's unlikely that the PPI duplicated the cover provided by Mr B's 
critical illness policy. I say this because critical illness cover usually only pays out in 
connection with the most serious illnesses and conditions. But the PPI would've paid out 
for time off work in connection with less serious illnesses and accidents. So I still think the 
PPI would've provided a useful benefit to Mr B if things went wrong.
Overall, from what I've seen and been told, I'm not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold on 
this occasion. 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman