DRN-2329167
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B are unhappy with the way their whole of life policy is being run by 
Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited. Theyre unhappy with the cost of the policy, 
unclear communication and errors Old Mutual made with their monthly premium.
The complaint has been brought to this service by Mrs and Mr Bs IFA. But for ease Ill refer 
to Mrs and Mr B throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr B took out their whole of life policy in 2005 with a sum assured of £250,000 
which remained the same for the first ten years. In 2015 Old Mutual projected that their 
monthly premium would remain the same for a further five years. And if the fund didnt grow 
at 4.5% the plan may need to be changed again. 
On 20 September 2018 Mrs and Mr B made a complaint about the way their policy was 
being run and that their sum assured had decreased to £115,370.94. Old Mutual confirmed 
in its final response letter  dated 22 October 2018  that it made an error when inputting 
their monthly premium following the 2015 review which meant Mrs and Mr B had been 
paying £27 less per month in premiums until the 2018 review - totalling £1,026. And it was 
this error with the premium that led to their sum assured dropping. Old Mutual apologised 
and said a premium of £341.76 wouldnt be enough to maintain the £250,000 sum assured. 
It gave Mrs and Mr B six months to refer the complaint to this service  22 April 2019.
Mrs and Mr B were unhappy with Old Mutuals response and wrote a further letter explaining 
the information it had provided in its final response was inconsistent with what they had been 
told over the phone and that they were unhappy with Old Mutuals administrative errors. 
Old Mutual sent a further letter  dated 8 January 2019 - explaining the affect the incorrect 
premium had on their policy, the underperforming fund and the review of its rates. It added 
that it couldnt guarantee the future premium and cover levels on the policy because they will 
continue to be reviewable. Old Mutual said it would make up the difference in the premium 
that hadnt been paid (£1,026) due to its administrative error and add this to the policy. And it 
offered £200 for the errors it had made and gave Mrs and Mr B until 8 July 2019 to contact 
this service if they wanted the complaint to be reviewed.  
Mrs and Mr B complained further to Old Mutual about its unaffordable premium increases. 
Old Mutual sent a further letter  dated 8 April 2019  with a further explanation about the 
fund growth, the premium error (£1,026) and the compensation payment - £200. Old Mutual 
also reiterated that Mrs and Mr B had until 8 July 2019 to bring their complaint to this 
service. 
On 22 June 2019 Old Mutual wrote to Mrs and Mr B with its 2019 annual review explaining 
the current monthly premium (£341.76) would only provide a sum assured of £97,804. And if 
they wanted to maintain the £250,000 sum assured the premium would have to increase to 
£881.37. 
In July 2019 Mrs and Mr B made a separate complaint to Old Mutual about the increase in 
cost to their monthly premium following the 2019 annual review. They told Old Mutual that 
they hadnt been treated fairly and their current monthly premium should be maintained for a 
until September 2020. They added that the underlying value of their fund had decreased by 
£1,037.04 due to increased charges which they felt showed that Old Mutuals calculations 
were inaccurate or the premium error of £1,026 from 2015 to 2018 hadnt been credited to 
their plan. 
On 21 August 2019 Old Mutual sent a final response to Mrs and Mr B. It said it had provided 
information to Mrs and Mr B previously which said the premium and sum assured were 
reviewable in nature and they had also sent projections to them outlining that the premium of 
£341.76 wasnt going to be enough to sustain a sum assured of £250,000 in 
September 2019. So, this is why it outlined the proposed changes to Mrs and Mr Bs plan in 
its annual review in June 2019. 
Mrs and Mr B brought their complaint to this service on 30 September 2019. They said they 
hadnt been treated fairly and they felt penalised by the re-pricing of the cost of cover. They 
said Old Mutual should honour the agreed premium levels in set out in 2015 in order to 
maintain a sum assured of £250,000 until at least September 2020. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Mrs and Mr B hadnt 
brought parts of their complaint to this service in time. He said their complaint about the 
premium administration error Old Mutual made in 2015 had been brought to this service 
more than six months after Old Mutuals final response in October 2018. So, he couldnt 
consider that element of their complaint. In relation to the premium increases and the 
reduction in the sum assured following the June 2019 review - he didnt think Old Mutual had 
treated Mrs and Mr B unfairly. The investigator felt Old Mutual had explained to 
Mrs and Mr B before they made their complaint in 2019 that the premium and sum assured 
arent guaranteed to last five years and are reviewable. 
Mrs and Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They said 
they are aware of the generic operations of their whole of life plan, in that it can be reviewed 
and the cost can increase over time. But they feel the errors Old Mutual made and the re-
calculation cost of cover havent been completed competently and they have been provided 
with conflicting information. They said they werent happy with the £200 Old Mutual had 
offered in January 2019 and felt they should be compensated £4,400 for the detrimental 
effect Old Mutuals errors and communications have had on their financial and emotional 
wellbeing. They said this figure took into account the additional costs of obtaining financial 
advice, inheritance tax planning and future tax liability due to the reduction in life cover from 
the 2019 annual review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs and Mr B so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.The 2018 complaint
Ive seen the points Mrs and Mr B raised about the communication they received and the 
error Old Mutual made when it input the wrong premium into its system following the 2015 
review. However, Im unable to consider this part of their complaint. Ive noted that 
Old Mutual issued a final response to Mrs and Mr B in October 2018 which gave them six 
months to bring the complaint to this service. Old Mutual sent a later response in January 
2019  where it offered £200  for the trouble and upset its error had caused. It extended the 
deadline for Mrs and Mr B to bring their complaint to this service to 8 July 2019. 
Mrs and Mr B didnt bring their complaint to this service until 30 September 2019. So, they 
referred this part of their complaint to this service too late. 
Im satisfied Old Mutual brought the deadline to Mrs and Mr Bs attention and they were 
aware of what the steps were if they wanted their complaint to be considered by this service. 
So, Im satisfied this has been referred to this service out of time. 
I can help with complaints referred outside of the usual time limits where Im satisfied that 
this was due to exceptional circumstances. But because Mrs and Mr B havent said any 
apply here, I cant consider these. 
The 2019 complaint
Mrs and Mr B are clearly unhappy with the way their policy has been handled and they feel 
theyve been treated unfairly which has caused them financial and emotional detriment. As a 
result, their trust in Old Mutuals ability to run their policy has eroded. So, I need to consider 
whether Old Mutuals handling of their policy review in 2019 is fair and whether its made an 
error when running their policy.  
Ive considered the correspondence Old Mutual sent to Mrs and Mr B. I note that Old Mutual 
sent letters to them that explained  more than once  that the premium they were paying in 
2018 wouldnt be enough to sustain the sum assured Mrs and Mr B wanted (£250,000). And 
that from the tables it sent to them this was very likely to increase further. Then when 
Mrs and Mr B received the review in 2019, they were unhappy because they felt Old Mutual 
must have made a significant error when it calculated their future premium in 2015 and 
2018, which led to their premium increasing dramatically and Old Mutual unfairly passing on 
increasing costs in the running of the policy to them. 
The policy terms state that Old Mutual can reduce the sum assured when the policy is 
reviewed if the Actuary deems it necessary. Ive seen the information and the reasons 
Old Mutual has provided which explain the premium increase. It says after September 2018 
the mortality charge increased due to the age of both lives assured, as did the cost of cover 
based on the sum at risk, plus there was underperformance of the fund and an increase in 
life cover rates. None of which seems wholly unreasonable or unfair to me. 
Its common for there to be changes to charges and rates when running these types of 
policies which can also reduce the underlying value of the plan. Although the plans value 
dropped by a similar amount to the premium rebate, Im satisfied from Old Mutuals 
explanation that this figure is a coincidence rather than Old Mutual clawing back the rebate a 
short time afterwards. So, from the information Ive seen, Ive not seen anything to make me 
think Old Mutual has treated Mrs and Mr B unfairly here or outside of the terms and 
conditions of their agreement. 
I note Mrs and Mr B are unhappy with the communication from Old Mutual. But Im satisfied 
the reasons for the likely increase were explained by Old Mutual in the correspondence it sent in 2018 and 2019. So, Im afraid I dont agree that the communication in relation to the 
2019 complaint was unfair or unclear. 
So, Im afraid I dont think Old Mutual should pay Mrs and Mr B any compensation for the 
way the 2019 review and the subsequent complaint was handled. And as Ive explained 
above, I cant consider the way Old Mutual handled the 2018 complaint in relation to its 
mistake with their premium in 2015 because this was referred to this service too late. 
Although Im unable to consider the error Old Mutual made when it calculated 
Mrs and Mr Bs monthly premium in 2015, I note Old Mutual has confirmed that the previous 
premium rebate was applied to their policy. So, I have no reason to doubt that this wasnt 
done in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman