DRN-3174123
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to reject a claim
they made under their home insurance policy for water damage to their property. Mr and Mrs
T said the service they received from AXA was poor.
What happened
On 23 December 2020 Mr and Mrs T found water leaking into their property during heavy
rainfall in the area. They tried to arrange for assistance under the Home Emergency (HE)
section of their policy with AXA, but were unable to get through. When they tried again and
eventually got through, they were directed to another number. When they called this number,
they were advised that AXA would need to report the claim on their behalf before they could
assist.
To prevent further damage, Mr and Mrs T paid for a local contractor to come to the property
the next day and it was discovered that a down pipe to the property was blocked. Mr and
Mrs T provided photos of the blocked drainpipe when the contractor attended. Mr and Mrs T
said they paid the contractor £90.
They made a claim for the damage to their property caused by the water to AXA. There was
internal damage caused by the ingress of water to the upstairs bathroom and a downstairs
hall/cloakroom. AXA instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to visit. The LAs report concluded that
the damage hadnt been caused by a one off insured event, but due to wear and tear from
water leaking from the roof. So AXA said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr and Mrs T complained to AXA about the problems they faced trying to arrange help under
the HE section of the policy; they were very unhappy with the actions of the LA when he
visited and the outcome hed reached. And they were unhappy with the inaccuracy of AXAs
reply declining the claim. They disputed the reasons given by both the LA and AXA. They
said the LA refused to consider the evidence they had to show the blocked drainpipe was
the cause of the damage.
AXA upheld some of Mr and Mrs Ts complaints. It apologised for the problems they faced
when they sought assistance under the HE section of the policy. And it was sorry for the way
the LA behaved when carrying out his assessment. It also agreed that it incorrectly said the
damage had been caused by a named storm  which happened after Mr and Mrs Ts
property was damaged.
For its failings, AXA paid Mr and Mrs T £100 compensation. But it said its decision to decline
the claim was correct.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. They said they
invited the LA to visit the property again after scaffolding was put up. They disagreed with
the reasons the LA gave for the cause of damage. They provided a report from a builder who
inspected the roof. In summary they said:
The LA misunderstood the style of 3D dcor in the upstairs bathroom as signs of
deterioration in the plaster - to evidence damp over time.
There are no signs of damp over time in the property. They had the windows in 
the bathroom replaced in August 2019. They had the gutters cleaned out a few 
months before the event. The LA has mentioned rot to external doors when no rot 
exists.
A builder who inspected the damage says the roof is in good condition.
The LA incorrectly concluded the cause of the damage  and refused to consider 
the evidence they had from the outset showing the blocked drainpipe.
The investigator thought AXA had reached its decision to decline the claim reasonably. But 
though it should pay a further £150 compensation for the poor service and distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs T in the way it dealt with the claim. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 12 October 2021. I thought the information provided by Mr and Mrs T was more 
persuasive that the cause of damage was due to the blocked drainpipe and not due to wear 
and tear. I agreed that a fair compensation award for the distress and inconvenience AXA 
had caused should be £250 in total, but in addition I thought AXA should reimburse them for 
the £90 call out fee theyd paid when they couldnt get through to the HE helpline for 
assistance. I thought AXA should meet Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. 
AXA says in summary that some of the photos of the roof show poor repairs  and photos of 
the ceiling show signs of previous water damage. It says the wallpaper isnt of a specialised 
3D effect and shows signs of historic damage which appears to have been painted over.
Mr and Mrs T explained that Mr Ts background is in project managing and engineering in 
buildings and construction  and so he feels his professional experience exceeds that of the 
LA. Mr T said the fact that after the obstruction in the drainpipe was removed, despite 
periods of severe storm and rain experienced many times this past year, no further ingress 
of water into their property has occurred. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision covers the salient points - but I have carefully considered the
evidence provided by AXA and Mr and Mrs T in deciding whether AXA has been fair to them.
From the outset I think Mr and Mrs T took all the necessary steps to alert AXA to the
damage as soon as it happened  obtained evidence to show the cause of damage 
mitigated the damage by paying for interim repairs  and provided AXA with all of the
information they had to assist with making their claim.
Mr and Mrs T provided photos of the flooded street outside their home to demonstrate how
quickly and torrentially the rain fell on 23 December 2020.They also provided photos of the
water damage to the inside of their home  and where it originated from outside.
Photos provided clearly show the drainpipe full up with standing water. The location of the
drainpipe shows that any overflow would fall on the outside wall where the upstairs bathroom
and downstairs hall/cloakroom is situated. Mr and Mrs T say the water ingressed inside theproperty to these rooms.
They explained that they have a 3D effect dcor on the walls of the bathroom which they say
the LA misunderstood to show signs of damp damage. Ive looked at the photos provided by
the LA. They show a high moisture reading in the wall. This isnt unexpected given the
recent damage. However, I cannot see any signs of damp over time. No wallpaper is peeling
or paint blistering, the water staining to the ceiling seems fresh and confined to one area 
there is no sign of mould or spread that would be usual if damage wasnt recently caused by
a one off event. At most, I think the photos show some of the decoration has been done 
some time ago. 
In relation to AXAs comments on my provisional decision, Ive looked again at the photos 
provided by the LA to show previous repairs to the roof. But I think its persuasive that a 
building designer  on examining he roof once scaffolding was erected - found the roof to be 
in good condition  and Mr T says no further water ingress has occurred since. 
An outside door to the cloakroom had a small gap in the wood at the bottom which the LA
commented on as rot. The LA said Mr and Mrs T told him water had been coming in from the
ground level to the cloakroom. Mr and Mrs T dont agree with the LAs statement. They said
water didnt come in from the ground, but from the wall above adjacent to the overflowing
drainpipe. Mr and Mrs T have explained that the door damage was caused by a neighbours
dog  and Mr T has since repaired and provided photos of.
I dont think the damage to the bottom of the external door has any relevance to their claim.
The LA reported cracking to the renders of the bathroom window allowing water to ingress.
Mr T explained that they had the windows replaced in August 2019. I can see that the
rendering around the windows has been redone at some point from the LAs photos.
The LA wrote:
This damage has been caused from long term damp issues. This is down to the
flashing on the roof in poor condition along with the cracks to the render. This
damage is not due to a one off ingress.
Throughout the report the LA referred to redecorating to the property. But I dont think the
photos the LA has provided of Mr and Mrs Ts property evidence that the water ingress has
come from a damaged leaking roof  and not from the blocked drainpipe.
Ive looked at the report provided by a building designer who inspected Mr and Mrs Ts roof.
No repairs were recommended in their report. This is something Id expect to see if roof
damage caused the water ingress to the property.
The report reads:
Following an inspection of the roof area above the family bathroom the following was 
found
listed below.
- The underlayer of felt is of a bitchamim type material and is of good condition.
- The batten on the roof is sized at 19/25mm and are in a good condition.
- The tiles on the roof are a bradstone product the courses of tiles diminish as they 
go up the roof from large too small with a more than generous head lap.
- The tiles are made of a concrete material and there are no signs of decaying on the
tiles.
- Mortar fillet to the side of the roof where it meets the gable end is of a sand and
cement material and in a very good condition.- No further issues were found on this area of the roof.
Having considered all of the information available, Im more persuaded by the evidence
provided by Mr and Mrs T that the cause of damage was due to the blocked drainpipe. So I
think AXAs decision to decline their claim was unreasonable.
I think Mr and Mrs T were clearly caused considerable distress at not being able to arrange
emergency repairs through AXA when they needed it. Ive seen email exchanges between
them and their broker describing the difficulties they faced when calling AXA asking for help.
AXA has upheld this complaint  it said it was busy and this resulted in long wait times.
Mr and Mrs T said the LA refused to look at the photos they had available of the blocked
drainpipe  and he refused to sanitise his hands when he came into the property despite
government restrictions and safety advice at the time. They felt the LA was rude and had
made his decision before inspecting the property. AXA said it would provide feedback.
When AXA declined their claim, it wrote that the damage had been caused by a named
storm. But the named storm happened after the event. So this wasnt correct. Mr and Mrs T
had mentioned the named storm to AXA when they complained  they said they knew the
named storm was imminent. So this meant they were more anxious to have interim repairs
carried out urgently to prevent the damage from getting worse. AXAs error  along with the
findings of the LA  caused Mr and Mrs T understandable distress and upset as they
believed their claim hadnt been properly considered.
So I dont think £100 compensation is enough to compensate Mr and Mrs T for the poor
service they received during the claim. I agree that £250 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs T is more reasonable and in line with awards we give
for similar circumstances, given the impact of AXAs decision and the poor service they
received over the Christmas period. But in addition, I think AXA should reimburse Mr and
Mrs T for the £90 fee they paid the contractor when they couldnt get help under the HE
section of the policy. I think AXA should pay interest on the reimbursement as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK plc to do the 
following:
pay Mr and Mrs Ts claim for the damage to their home caused by the blocked
drainpipe in line with the policy terms.
Increase the total compensation it pays from £100 to £250 for the distress and
inconvenience caused and;
Reimburse Mr and Mrs T for the £90 fee they paid the contractor in the absence 
of help received under the HE section of the policy. AXA should pay interest on 
the amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date Mr and Mrs T 
paid to the date of reimbursement.
AXA Insurance UK plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mr and Mrs T accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple
rate of 8% a year.
If AXA Insurance UK plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should
also give Mr and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman