DRN-4305737
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M opened a credit card account with HSBC in October 2009. His credit limit was £3,000. 
HSBC increased Mr Ms credit limit on six occasions between November 2017 and March 
2022. At its highest, it was £11,500.
 
Mr M says that HSBC acted irresponsibly by providing him with the credit limit increases. Mr 
M says that he got into financial difficulty as a result. He asks that HSBC pay him back the 
interest and charges he incurred as a result of the increases in his credit limit along with 
statutory interest.
HSBC says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr M and that it did all the necessary checks before 
it lent to Mr M.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
given the amount it was proposing to lend to Mr M, HSBC should have done more checks in 
relation to the three credit limit increases between June 2019 and March 2022. And if it had 
done more checks, it would have seen information which would have indicated that Mr M 
wouldnt be able to pay back the borrowing and cover his existing debts in a sustainable 
way. Our adjudicator didnt think that HSBC had done anything wrong in relation to the credit 
limit increases between November 2017 and February 2019.
HSBC disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks at all stages and there were no 
indications of any financial strain. Mr M also disagreed. He thought his complaint should 
have been upheld from the first credit limit increase in November 2017.
As both parties disagreed the case was passed to me to make a decision. I provisionally 
agreed with the adjudicators view and wrote to both parties to explain in detail why this was 
the case. The evidence at that stage ran to over 2770 pages, some of which was only 
submitted shortly before my provisional decision. 
Following my provisional decision, Mr M again disagreed with the outcome and submitted 
further information and representations. The evidence now runs to over 3400 pages. I can 
assure both parties I have spent considerable time reviewing all of the evidence, but I will 
only refer to the evidence I consider relevant in this case. 
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision. And as Mr M didnt agree, I now issue this 
final decision to conclude this services consideration of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ms complaint. Having 
done so, I agree with our adjudicators view, however, as Mr M provided a significant amount 
of evidence since that view, I provided parties with a provisional (rather than final) decision 
to allow them to make comments on my findings. 
Since then, as I have explained, HSBC has not responded, and Mr M has provided more 
information. The additional information has not changed my decision. I will explain why. 
HSBC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that HSBC should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include things 
like understanding the total amount Mr M borrowed, the length of time Mr M had been 
indebted and how much disposable income he had. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr Ms complaint is about the credit limit increases on his credit card from November 2017. 
There isnt any evidence available about the opening of the account some years earlier. 
HSBC says that it did all the necessary checks each time it increased Mr Ms credit limit and 
it saw nothing to suggest Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably afford his repayments, even if 
he used the full credit limit. It says that when Mr M opened his credit card he declared an 
income of £25,000 a year.
HSBC told us that Mr M passed its own tests. It says Mr M showed no signs of financial 
difficulty. It says Mr M had no signs of delinquency on his credit file with any lender; he 
hadnt been shown forbearance in the preceding six months; hed had no returned payments 
in the preceding month and there was no evidence that he had used his entire balance for 
cash withdrawals. HSBC also said that on each occasion Mr Ms level of indebtedness and 
credit scores was within its internal policy limits, which were based on its own internal 
customer behaviour score and credit card behaviour score. It also looked at the payments 
Mr M had made over the five months preceding most of the increases to make sure if they 
continued at the same rate Mr M would be able to pay off the credit card within 36 months.
In relation to the last increase in March 2022, HSBC says it also made an income and 
expenditure assessment using an assessment of the income going into Mr Ms current 
account and modelled information about his essential expenditure using Office of National 
Statistics data. It says this showed Mr M was likely to have a net disposable income each 
month of around £954, making the increased credit affordable. 
 
Our adjudicator thought that in relation to the first three credit limit increases that HSBCs 
checks were reasonable and proportionate. They said that there was no evidence of 
financial difficulty for Mr M. But in relation to the final three credit limit increases our 
adjudicator thought HSBC ought to have done more checks and that if it had, HSBC ought to 
have realised Mr M couldnt afford any more credit.
HSBC disagreed, and so did Mr M. I asked to see the evidence of the checks HSBC says it did. I wanted to know exactly what it 
saw when it made its checks rather than just non-specific information about how Mr M met 
its own undefined internal policies and scores. For example, I wanted to know whether 
HSBCs checks showed what Mr Ms income was.  HSBC wasnt able to provide these. 
While our adjudicator was satisfied that on the face of things HSBCs checks were 
reasonable and proportionate, I think it ought to have gone further. On the basis of the 
checks HSBC has told me it did, it didnt appear to have any up-to-date information about Mr 
Ms income. When he had opened the account in 2009 he had told HSBC that his income 
was £25,000 a year but that was eight years previously and its likely it would have changed 
since then. HSBC understood how Mr M was managing his HSBC credit card, but it didnt 
have information about how much hed already borrowed elsewhere, I think in these 
circumstances it was reasonable for it to have sought more information about Mr Ms income 
and expenditure.
I cant be sure what HSBC would have found out if it had asked Mr M about his income and 
expenditure. Mr M says he was already struggling at this point and that this should have 
been clear to HSBC. He explained that he received a County Court Judgement (CCJ) on 27 
November 2017, ten days after the credit limit increase. This would ordinarily mean that Mr 
M must have missed payments before the account defaulted and court action ensued, which 
would have shown on his credit file. Mr M provided a copy of his credit file from 27 
December 2017 to support this. However, although he had a very poor credit score I could 
not identify any difficulties with managing his existing credit.  The CCJ was in relation to an 
unpaid private parking charge and, from other correspondence Mr M supplied, it seems that 
the CCJ had been imposed without Mr Ms knowledge of the legal action. I think this is 
probably the reason his credit score was so low and not because he wasnt meeting 
repayments on existing credit. I note also that it also wasnt present on a later credit file, 
suggesting it had been settled or set aside. Since my provisional decision, Mr M has 
confirmed this was the case.  So, I dont think HSBC would have seen anything of concern in 
relation to the way he was managing his finances at that point.
Mr M also supplied his bank statements from around the same time. I can see from these 
that, unsurprisingly, Mr Ms income was higher than it was when he declared it when he 
opened his credit card account. From those bank statements I can see that Mr M was 
retaining a healthy credit balance while meeting his essential expenditure.
In Mr Ms response to my provisional decision, he says that he had managed his finances 
very well before the credit limit increase in August 2018. 
 
So, if HSBC had asked about Mr Ms income and expenditure in November 2017, I dont 
think it would have found out anything that would have prevented it from providing the credit 
limit increase.
The same principles around checks applies for the later credit limit increases. I think HSBC 
ought to have done checks to establish Mr Ms income and essential expenditure.
 
Mr M has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of each credit limit 
increase. These show that he was generally in credit apart from short periods. Payments into 
his account come from umbrella companies through which Mr M contracted. Mr M says that 
the payments are not income but loans which he had to pay back. These loans came from 
an umbrella company based outside the mainland UK jurisdiction, in the Isle of Man. While in 
theory these loans have to be paid back, these types of loan schemes often act as a tax 
avoidance scheme whereby the loans are never repaid, and the umbrella company takes a 
percentage of the contractors fee as an administration fee.
 Mr M has included in his evidence a letter from HMRC dated 18 May 2023 reminding him of 
an overdue requirement to submit a self-assessment tax return for 2018-2019 and indicating 
that it believes his employer (one of the umbrella companies) was using a tax avoidance 
scheme involving employees being paid amounts that were described as loans or other 
types of credit. This demand post-dates the initial decision by our adjudicator. Mr M has also 
provided copies of his HMRC records from the relevant years showing his taxable income. 
These arent the self-assessments required by HMRC in its letter, rather they are records of 
the income he received from his various employments under PAYE. They do not appear to 
include the loans under investigation by HMRC.
 
There is no evidence on any of the bank statements that Mr M paid back any of the loans. I 
invited Mr M to supply evidence of these repayments, but he did not do so, although he 
explained how he had worked for an agency and had not understood the payment 
arrangements. In the absence of that evidence, I can only conclude that the money paid into 
his account by the umbrella companies was his income and that his HMRC statements of 
PAYE income do not reflect the reality of how Mr M was paid for the work he undertook. 
Looking at a sample of Mr Ms bank statements in the months leading up to each increase 
Mr Ms income was much higher than his HMRC PAYE records would suggest. 
On this basis, having reviewed Mr Ms income and essential expenditure on those bank 
statements, I am satisfied that had HSBC asked about Mr Ms income and expenditure in 
relation to the credit limit increases in August 2018 and February 2019 it would reasonably 
have thought that the increases in Mr Ms credit limit were affordable for him. So, although I 
dont think HSBC did adequate checks, I dont think if it had done them, it would have seen 
anything which might have made it act differently and not increase Mr Ms credit limit. I note 
that Mr M had missed one payment on his credit card in December 2018, but he quickly 
resolved this, and I dont think that alone would have been a reason for HSBC to do further 
checks. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr M provided copious more documents, mainly 
relating to his circumstances after February 2019. I have reviewed all of these, but they do 
not change my opinion on what HSBC would have seen if it had completed adequate checks 
before June 2019. It was not necessary or proportionate for HSBC to complete a forensic 
examination of Mr Ms financial and personal circumstances. It was enough for it to see 
evidence of his income and essential expenditure. As I have already explained, had it done 
so, I dont think it would have seen anything to make it act differently and no increase Mr Ms 
credit limit.
 
In June 2019 Mr M asked HSBC for a further credit limit increase, from £7,000 to £8,000. 
HSBC agreed to this. Although this was at Mr Ms request, this didnt mean HSBC didnt 
have a responsibility to make proportionate checks to establish whether the increased 
lending was affordable for Mr M. HSBC has supplied no evidence at all about the checks it 
did in relation to this increase, so I can only assume that it didnt do any. 
Again, I think HSBC ought to have done further checks, especially as Mr M proactively 
sought the credit limit increase, indicating he needed more credit. I think it ought to have 
checked his income and expenditure in the same way I have described earlier.
Mr M has provided copies of his bank statements from that time, too. In the month before the 
credit limit increase Mr Ms income was in the region of £3,070 and his essential expenditure 
was around £2,900. Figures for the preceding two months show a similar amount of 
disposable income. While my calculations differ slightly to our adjudicators, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Mr M did not have sufficient disposable income to manage his essential 
living expenses and make increased repayments on his credit card. He was also significantly 
overdrawn throughout the months leading up to the increase. 
So, if HSBC had done the checks I think it ought to have done, I think it would have 
concluded Mr M couldnt afford the additional borrowing. 
I have not considered the two following increases in great detail, because I dont think it 
makes a difference to the final outcome. However, I have noted that immediately following 
the June 2019 increase Mr M took out a large personal loan with HSBC, part of which he 
used to consolidate other lending with HSBC. He also entered into a car finance agreement 
in November 2019 which added to his essential repayments. His bank account remained 
overdrawn and he began to miss payments he owed elsewhere. So I dont think Mr Ms 
finances improved to the extent that any additional borrowing on his credit card would have 
been affordable. 
So, on the evidence available to me, I dont think HSBC acted fairly when it increased Mr Ms 
credit limit above £7,000. I think Mr M lost out as a result and that HSBC should compensate 
him.
I understand that Mr M will be disappointed with my final decision, and I appreciate Mr M 
holds HSBC responsible for the majority of his later financial difficulties. In his later 
representations Mr M explains several life changing events which were the catalyst for his 
later financial difficulties. In his latest representations he seeks the maximum amount of 
compensation businesses should pay. This would be £350,000. However, I am unable to 
conclude that HSBCs actions directly led to all of his problems, that Mr M has suffered a 
loss of that size as a result of HSBCs failings or that such a direction for compensation 
could be considered reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
As I dont think HSBC ought to have increased Mr Ms credit limit above £7,000, I dont think 
its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges above that amount. But I think Mr
M should pay back the amount he has borrowed. Therefore, HSBC should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not
already refunded) that have been applied to balances above £7,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr M along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. HSBC should also remove all adverse information
regarding this account from Mr Ms credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, HSBC should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount.
Once Mr M has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the
account should be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
In my provisional decision I also explained that Mr M had asked me to consider directing that 
HSBC pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience the events have caused 
him. I can see that Mr M feels that HSBC has, cumulatively, caused him serious financial 
problems over the years. However, I am only considering this case. I do not think HSBC can 
be held wholly responsible for all the problems Mr M has experienced or to have reasonably foreseen the impact its decisions to increase Mr Ms credit limit might have caused. And as I 
have explained above, I do not think HSBC is wholly responsible for Mr Ms problems.
Having said that, I do think Mr M has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of 
the decisions to increase his lending from June 2019. I think it would be fair for HSBC to pay 
Mr M £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced. I 
explained this in my provisional decision, and I have received no objection or 
representations from HSBC so I now direct HSBC pay this. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about unaffordable lending in part and direct HSBC UK Bank plc 
to pay compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman