DRN-4335054
The complaint
Mr N complains about the actions of Mr X of Harton Mortgage Services Ltd (Harton)  
formerly an appointed representative of Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited (Quilter 
Mortgage). He says Mr X gave him unsuitable advice to move two pensions to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) to make a high-risk unregulated investment.
What happened
Mr N says Mr X advised him to take out a SIPP and invest in the Harmony Bay Resort and 
Spa in 2012. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register shows Mr X worked for Harton. Harton was 
an appointed representative of Quilter Mortgage between 7 March 2012 and 
19 October 2016. The Harmony Bay purchase agreement was dated 11 June 2012 and 
SIPP statements show:
The SIPP was set up on 26 June 2012.
Mr Ns pensions  £34,911.83 and £6,838.61  were moved to the SIPP on 
20 August 2012 and 1 October 2012 respectively.
£36,750 was invested in Harmony Bay on 11 October 2012.
Rental income was initially received but the last payment was on 1 September 2015.
So, the events complained about happened when Harton was an appointed representative 
of Quilter Mortgage. 
The Harmony Bay investment failed, and Mr Ns representative initially made a claim against 
the SIPP provider to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme but was then directed to 
complain to Quilter Mortgage. Mr Ns representative said the advice Mr N had been given 
was unsuitable and didnt match the level of risk he was prepared to take.
Quilter Mortgage issued a final response not upholding Mr Ns complaint. It said the 
complaint had been made outside the time limits. But it said that in any event, there was no 
evidence Mr X had given Mr N any pension advice. It said Mr Xs recollection was that during 
a mortgage review appointment, Mr Ns pensions had come up and Mr X mentioned hed 
recently invested in overseas property through his SIPP and so introduced Mr N to a 
separate firm  Firm A. It said Mr X therefore hadnt given any advice but even if he had, this 
would have been outside what it allowed him to do. It also said it has no relationship with the 
SIPP provider or Harmony Bay and received no remuneration.
An investigator concluded we can consider Mr Ns complaint against Quilter Mortgage. In 
summary, she was satisfied the complaint had been made within the time limits. She was 
also satisfied Mr X had given Mr N advice and made arrangements in relation to his previous 
pensions and the SIPP and this was something that had been allowed under the appointed 
representative agreement. And she was satisfied the complaint should be upheld.
Quilter Mortgage didnt agree. It accepted the investigators findings that the complaint had 
been made within the time limits. But it didnt agree that any advice that Mr X gave was 
authorised by it. Specifically, it said it doesnt have permissions for investment business so it 
couldnt have given Mr X authorisation to advise on and/or arrange pension switches.
The issue was therefore passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision 
agreeing with the investigator that the complaint was in our jurisdiction and should be 
upheld. However, because I addressed issues not previously covered, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the chance to comment further.
Mr Ns representative replied saying it had nothing further to add. Quilter Mortgage replied 
saying it doesnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary it said:
It accepts theres case law that says responsibility under Section 39 Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) should be determined by reference to the 
agreement in place rather than the principals FCA permissions. But its non-sensical 
that Quilter Mortgage, which has never had investment permissions, would allow 
Harton to carry out investment business.
The conclusion that all permissions set out in the appointed representative 
agreement apply to all appointed representatives cant be correct. Its clear from 
Hartons offer letter that it only represented Quilter Mortgage. Common sense would 
therefore be that Harton could only carry out the types of business Quilter Mortgage 
was permitted to do itself. 
The paperwork the SIPP provider sent to Mr N confirmed that Mr X was a non-
regulated agent who wasnt authorised to give any advice on the SIPP or the 
investment in it and it was Mr Ns responsibility to obtain independent advice. Mr N 
signed his agreement to this.
The paperwork the SIPP provider sent Mr N  which he signed  highlighted specific 
risks of the Harmony Bay investment. Its clear Mr N was fully aware of what he was 
investing in.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether this complaint is 
one the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider against Quilter Mortgage.  Having done 
so, Im still satisfied it is. Ive therefore repeated my provisional findings below with additional 
commentary on the points raised in response to my provisional decision.
The Financial Ombudsman Service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a 
complaint, we need to check, by reference to the FCAs Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) 
and the legislation from which those rules are derived, whether its one we have the power to 
look at.
I havent considered the time limit rules because Quilter Mortgage confirmed it was satisfied 
with the investigators explanation of why Mr Ns complaint had been made in time and it no 
longer objected to us considering the complaint on that basis.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
To decide whether Quilter Mortgage is responsible here, there are three issues I need to 
consider:
What are the specific acts Mr N has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Quilter Mortgage accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr N has complained about?
Mr N says Mr X gave him unsuitable advice to switch two pensions to a SIPP to invest in an 
unsuitable high-risk investment.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Regulated activities are those activities that are specified in Part II of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). They include:
Advising on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment (Article 53 RAO).
Making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or 
relevant investment (Article 25 RAO). 
The events complained about here involve specified investments so Im satisfied regulated 
activities would have been carried out if advice was given, or arrangements made, in relation 
to them. Unfortunately, there isnt much evidence available from the time of the pension 
switches and investment but taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely Mr X 
was involved. I say this because:
The SIPP application form, which was signed on 20 June 2012, had 
AGENT/EXECUTION BASIS ONLY filled in in the introducer details section. And in 
answer to the question of whether advice had been given, No had been ticked. But 
in the section Please confirm any linked organisations with whom you are 
authorising us to correspond, Mr X of Hartons name, address and contact details 
were provided.The 2015 annual report Mr N was sent by the SIPP provider named Mr X of Harton in 
both the introducer and Investment Manager/Agent sections.
A letter to Mr N from the SIPP provider dated 7 August 2012 said the SIPP 
application had been received from Mr X at Harton.
Mr X has told us that at a review of Mr Ns mortgage the conversation moved onto pensions, 
and he told Mr N hed invested in overseas property and introduced Mr N to Firm A because 
Mr N said this seemed like a good idea. However, that doesnt explain why Mr X submitted 
the SIPP application and why both he and Harton were named on the SIPP application form.
It therefore seems as though Mr X had much more involvement in the switches and 
investment than hes acknowledged, and Im satisfied its most likely he was involved in 
making arrangements for setting up the SIPP, the pension switches and the Harmony Bay 
investment.
Im still satisfied its also most likely Mr X advised Mr N to switch his pensions to the SIPP to 
invest in Harmony Bay. Although suitability reports are one of the indicators that advice was 
given, the absence of one doesnt mean advice wasnt given. I note Quilter Mortgages 
comments on the letter from the SIPP provider dated 7 August 2012 which referred to Mr X 
as a non-regulated agent and went on to say:
For the sake of clarity a non-regulated agent means that the introducing agent is not 
authorised by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) to give any form of financial 
advice on either the SIPP or any investment within it, and you must ensure that if you 
believe that you need such advice that it is taken from a suitably regulated and 
authorised person.
I can confirm that I carefully considered this letter when reaching my provisional decision 
and Ive done so again. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, I think its highly 
unlikely Mr N would have taken the decision himself to switch his pensions to a SIPP to 
invest in Harmony Bay without receiving advice. And taking everything into account, I still 
think its most likely that advice was provided by Mr X. The fact Mr N didnt query the SIPP 
providers letter before signing it does him no credit, but we often see cases where 
consumers sign paperwork without carefully reading everything as they should have.
Did Quilter Mortgage accept responsibility for those acts?
I havent seen any evidence that Mr X was acting in any capacity other than as Harton  and 
therefore for Quilter Mortgage  at the time of the events complained about. 
As Ive set out above, Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So, Quilter Mortgage is only responsible for complaints arising from anything done or omitted 
by Harton in the carrying on of business for which Quilter Mortgage accepted responsibility.
In its letter of 7 August 2012, the SIPP provider said Mr X wasnt authorised to give advice 
on either the SIPP or the investment in it. But the SIPP providers understanding of what 
Mr X was, and wasnt, allowed to do isnt relevant. Instead, what I must consider is the 
express agreement between Quilter Mortgage and Harton  the appointed representative 
agreement. As I explained in my provisional decision, this was drafted to cover appointed representative relationships with two principal businesses  Quilter Mortgage and 
Quilter Financial Planning Limited. At the time of the agreement, Quilters name was Intrinsic 
so references to Intrinsic should be read as Quilter.
The agreement read:
The Member is an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic for the purpose only of 
carrying on the Business.
The Member is not permitted tocarry on any other Regulated Activity or to promote, 
sell or advise on any financial services or plans other than the Plans without the 
express written consent of Intrinsic, except that the Member may make introductions 
to Independent Financial Advisers as permitted by Intrinsic from time to time.
Business was defined as:
The business of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set 
out in this Agreement.
And Plan was defined as:
Any policy, investment agreement, mortgage or other agreement or service specified 
from time to time in this Agreement.
There arent any further provisions in the agreement that expand on this. But the compliance 
manual read:
The regulated activities for which Intrinsic has approval are as follows:
a) Arranging (bringing about) deals in;
b) Making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c) Advising on; or
d) Agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)-(c)
in relation to designated investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-
related general insurance.
As appointed representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry out those 
activities detailed above (dependent upon any restrictions inherent in your contract), 
these are referred to as the Scope of Permissions.
All firms regulated by FSA entered the depolarised regime on 1 June 2005. As an 
appointed representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels 
and product ranges chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number of companies in 
respect of Designated Investment business, commonly referred to as a Multi-tie
Your membership of Intrinsic means that you can only provide advice within the 
product areas covered by Intrinsics Scope of Permission. Giving advice in some 
areas is simply not permitted (for example Unregulated Collective Investment 
Schemes)
Business for which you are not licensedIndividual Shares or Gilts and Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS)
Advice in these areas is a specialist activity and outside your scope of permission 
through the Intrinsic. You are therefore not permitted to undertake work in this area. 
Such cases should be introduced to specialist stockbrokers.
Quilter Mortgage has made two arguments here:
That the permissions it gave Harton were necessarily restricted by the permissions it 
itself held with the FCA.
That the agreement requires any recommendations to relate to an approved 
institution and unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) advice wasnt 
allowed more generally.
Were Hartons permissions restricted by Quilter Mortgages?
Although the agreement was stated to be with Intrinsic, Intrinsic was defined as:
Intrinsic Financial Planning Limited and/or Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Limited 
according to which company(ies) is/are expressed in the Offer Letter as the 
company(ies) offering the Membership Agreement to the Member.
And Ive been provided with Hartons offer letter dated 17 March 2012 which read:
We are delighted to offer you a Membership Agreement representing Intrinsic 
Mortgage Planning Limited.
The FCA register shows that Quilter Mortgage only has mortgage, non-investment insurance 
and some consumer credit permissions. And I have no reason to believe it had investment 
permissions previously. Quilter Mortgage says it therefore couldnt give Harton permission to 
carry out regulated investment activities  because it didnt have those permissions from the 
FCA itself. However, I dont agree.
In the case of Anderson & Ors v Sense Network Ltd [2018] EWHC 2834 (Comm), the High 
Court said:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
And this was then approved in the Court of Appeal ([2019] EWCA Civ 1395) which said:
Mr Sims submits that the purpose of the words the whole or part of that business is 
to enable an AR to have agreements under section 39 with more than one authorised 
person. They cater for the situation where more than one authorised person has 
accepted responsibility for the business to be carried on by an AR and each 
authorised person is itself authorised for only one or some but not all of the 
businesses to be carried on by the AR. An authorised person cannot accept 
responsibility for a business for which it does not have authorisation from the FCA. 
While I accept that the words the whole or part of facilitate the involvement of more 
than one authorised person with the same AR, I do not see the basis for restricting 
the clear and unqualified words of section 39(1) to this situation. The purpose of section 39(1) is to confer exempt status on persons in a manner which will fulfil the 
underlying regulatory and protective purposes of the legislation. It may make perfect 
sense to limit an AR to a partial exemption, having regard to the breadth and depth of 
the expertise of that AR or indeed of the authorised person. If, as Mr Sims submits, 
the legislative intention is to make an authorised person responsible for all the 
activities of an AR that fall within the authorised persons own authorisation, it is 
inexplicable that section 39(1) is not drafted in clear terms to have that effect. For my 
part, I find it impossible to spell it out of section 39(1) as it is in fact drafted.
The case law is therefore clear that responsibility under Section 39 FSMA should be 
determined by reference to the agreement in place, not by reference to the principals FCA 
permissions. And the agreement in place here did allow investment advice and arranging.
I note Quilter Mortgages comments about it being non-sensical that itd allow Harton to carry 
out investment business when it didnt have permission to do this itself. However, by having 
an appointed representative agreement that covered two principals with two different sets of 
FCA permissions, this was a risk that was taken. I agree that Hartons offer letter was clear 
that Quilter Mortgage was its principal. But I cant ignore the fact the appointed 
representative agreement didnt differentiate between the two principals it covered when 
setting out what appointed representatives could, and couldnt, do.
Were there restrictions in the agreement that meant activities had to relate to approved 
institutions and UCIS advice wasnt allowed?
Whilst the agreement supports there being a list of approved institutions, Quilter Mortgage 
hasnt provided us with a copy of that list. I therefore cant reasonably conclude that the 
institutions involved here werent approved institutions.
I accept that the appointed representative agreement says advice on UCIS isnt allowed. But 
this complaint isnt just about UCIS advice. The complaint is about advice to take out a SIPP 
to replace existing personal pensions in order to make a UCIS investment. And it seems the 
advice in relation to Mr Ns previous pensions and his new SIPP was allowed under the 
appointed representative agreement and was business for which Quilter Mortgage accepted 
responsibility.
In my view, advising on and arranging the UCIS (even if carried out here in breach of the 
appointed representative agreement) was closely associated or intrinsically linked to the 
advice on, and arranging in relation to, the previous pensions and new SIPP. They were part 
of the same transaction. The advice wasnt given on a stand-alone basis but was part of a 
single piece of advice to switch the pensions to a new SIPP and invest in the UCIS. Im 
satisfied thats consistent with the approach taken by the courts (Martin & Anor. v Britannia 
Life Ltd [1999] EWHC 852 (Ch) and Tenetconnect Services Ltd, R (on the application of) v 
Financial Services Lts & Anor [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin)). So, because Quilter Mortgage 
authorised part of the advice, its responsible for the single piece of advice in its entirety.
My decision  jurisdiction
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Quilter Mortgage is responsible under 
Section 39 FSMA for the acts being complained about and this is a complaint that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service can look at.
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still satisfied the complaint should be upheld. Ive therefore repeated my 
provisional findings below with additional commentary on the point raised in response to my 
provisional decision.
Unfortunately, there isnt a fact find available from the time and Mr N says one wasnt done. 
However, Mr N has told us that at that time he had a salary of around £35,000; no previous 
investment experience and that he had a low capacity for loss and didnt want to take much 
risk. He says he now knows the Harmony Bay investment involved more risk than he was 
prepared to take. 
In terms of the pension switches, it seems Mr Xs only reason for recommending them was 
so that Mr N would have the money to make the Harmony Bay investment. And I havent 
seen any documentary record of why Mr X recommended that.
UCIS investments carry significant risks and a lack of protections. Everything Ive seen 
suggests Mr N was an ordinary retail investor with little or no investment experience. Theres 
nothing that suggests to me he was the sophisticated type of investor for which unregulated 
high-risk investments would be suitable. And theres nothing that suggests he could afford to 
take significant risks with his investments. Mr X would have known all of this.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch his pensions to a SIPP to invest in 
Harmony Bay wasnt suitable and should never have been made as a recommendation to 
him. 
Quilter Mortgage says Mr N clearly understood the risks of the Harmony Bay investment 
because they were set out in a letter from the SIPP provider dated 7 August 2012 that he 
signed. And it says he chose to go ahead knowing these risks. But Im satisfied these risks 
read as generic risk warnings  for example, one begins If applicable to your investment  
and that Mr N wouldnt have placed weight on them over advice from Mr X.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr N 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr N wouldnt have moved his pensions if everything had happened as it 
should have. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr N's 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
In summary, Quilter Mortgage should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr N has suffered as a result of making the switches and investing 
in Harmony Bay.
2. Take ownership of the investment held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ns pension in respect of his pension losses. If 
that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Mr N direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Mr Ns SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event hes now not able to close 
his SIPP.
5. Pay compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr N.6. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Mr N.
Ill explain how Quilter Mortgage should carry out the calculation set out above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr N has suffered as a result of making the switches and 
investing in Harmony Bay
To do this, Quilter Mortgage should work out the likely value of Mr Ns pensions as at the 
date of my decision, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP.
Quilter Mortgage should ask Mr Ns former pension providers to calculate the current 
notional transfer values had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining a notional valuation, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate 
bonds as published by the Bank of England should be used to calculate the value. That is 
likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of returns that could have been achieved if the 
pensions hadnt been switched.
The notional transfer values should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of my decision, and this will show the loss Mr N has suffered.
Any additional sum that Mr N paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation proportionately at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
proportionately from the fair value calculations at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter Mortgage totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end.
2. Take ownership of the investment
Ideally, the asset in the SIPP  the investment  could be removed from the SIPP. Mr N 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the 
SIPP. For calculating compensation, Quilter Mortgage should agree an amount with the 
SIPP provider as a commercial value for the Harmony Bay investment. It should then pay 
the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of it.
If Quilter Mortgage is able to purchase the investment, then the price paid should be allowed 
for in the current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the 
investment).
If Quilter Mortgage is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investment, it should 
give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Quilter Mortgage may then 
ask Mr N to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the 
SIPP might receive from the investment once hes been compensated in full for his losses if 
the award limit applies and Quilter Mortgage chooses to limit compensation to it. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr N may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums hed be able to access from the SIPP. 
Quilter Mortgage will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr N for the loss hes suffered in (1)Since the loss Mr N has suffered is within his pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Mr Ns pension plan if it still exists. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into 
the pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Mr N could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Mr Ns marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Ns pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Mr N direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to 
Mr N should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ns marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example, if Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr N would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. SIPP fees
If Mr N is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Quilter Mortgage 
should pay an amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the 
most recent years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr N wouldnt 
be in the SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So, it wouldnt be fair for him to have to pay the 
fees to keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be 
sorted out with the investment and the SIPP to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
Pay Mr N £300 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr N has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of a significant portion 
of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £300 is fair to compensate for that upset.
6. Pay interest
Quilter Mortgage should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being 
notified that Mr N has accepted my decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due 
is to be paid from the date of the decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple 
interest per year. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter Mortgage 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. 
Quilter Mortgage should give Mr N a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr N 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above and Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited should provide details of 
its calculation to Mr N in a clear, simple format. My decision is that Quilter Mortgage 
Planning Limited should pay Mr N the amount produced by that calculation  up to a 
maximum of £160,000 plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited pays Mr N the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Quilter Mortgage Planning 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr N can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman