DRN-1825797
The complaint
Mr M says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr M took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Santander disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was planning to uphold the complaint. 
Neither Mr M nor Santander provided anything further for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint for the following reasons.
Santanders records show that PPI was discussed with Mr M and, based on the information 
he gave, PPI was recommended to him. Im mindful that Mr M hasnt argued he was 
unaware of the policy, that he thought it was compulsory or that he didnt consent to taking it 
out. The mortgage offer also made clear that Mr M didnt have to take any insurance through 
Santander, and that only home insurance was necessary under the terms of the mortgage. 
So, I think its most likely that Santander made Mr M aware that he had a choice about 
buying the MPPI, and that he chose to take it.
Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr M, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Santander recorded that Mr M told it he 
had no savings, investments or insurance policies at that time, and would be at risk of falling 
behind with his repayments if he couldnt work.
Although Mr M has suggested to us that he did have other ways of keeping up with his 
repayments Im inclined to give more weight to the evidence that was recorded back in 2005, 
rather than his recollection from almost 15 years later.
Even if Mr M could show that he had some accessible savings available to him at the time, 
the MPPI wouldve protected those savings for up to 12 months by paying the mortgage if he 
couldnt work. So, that wouldnt necessarily make me think the MPPI was unsuitable or that 
he had no need for it.
I think Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr M would still have bought it. Given the cover provided, it wasnt particularly 
expensive, and it appears to have been affordable for Mr M.Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr M 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, including what hes said about making 
a successful claim for redundancy in 2010 and then becoming self-employed. But these 
points dont change my conclusion. If he feels that he paid for the MPPI when it wouldnt 
have covered him, then he should discuss this with the insurer so it can consider whether a 
refund of premiums is appropriate. I dont think thats a matter for Santander, which simply 
sold the policy five years earlier.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman