DRN-2876598
The complaint
Miss F has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Miss F made a claim under her motor insurance policy. Shed been involved in an accident 
early in the morning when she lost control of her car and crashed into a ditch. But when 
Admiral looked into the claim it said that one of the tyres was below the legal limit and so it 
declined the claim.
Miss F wasnt happy about this and complained to Admiral and as it wouldnt change its 
position she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He thought that 
Admiral had acted fairly in declining the claim as its independent assessor had suggested 
that the lack of tread on the tyre had contributed to the accident. 
As Miss F didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I can understand why Admiral turned down the claim I dont 
think it has sufficient evidence to support its position. So Im currently minded to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When Admiral looked into the circumstances surrounding the claim it concluded that the lack 
of tread on Miss Fs tyre contributed to her accident. This stemmed from the fact that its 
independent assessor felt that this could be a contributing factor in the accident. This was 
because the road was damp at the time of the accident.
However, Miss F has provided three separate engineers reports and commentaries that cast 
clear doubt on Admirals independent assessors position. On the one hand they cast doubt 
on whether Admirals engineer has the professional expertise to offer the opinion he did. And 
on the other clearly say that the lack of tread on Miss Fs tyre had no effect on the accident.
Im satisfied that Admirals initial position wasnt unreasonable and I can understand why 
their independent assessor formed their view. But I wouldve expected Admiral to revisit its 
position once Miss F provided the additional evidence in support of her claim. I asked 
Admiral to consider this additional evidence recently and it has either failed to reply or 
chosen not to comment. So Ive advanced my provisional decision on the evidence available 
to date.
As Admiral knows this service would generally feel it acted fairly if it can show that the 
problem with Miss Fs tyre contributed to the accident. But as Miss F has provided detailed 
reports undermining Admirals position, from experts with considerable expertise in the area, 
I think on balance that the lack of tread didnt have any bearing on the accident. As such, I 
think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is for 
Admiral to settle Miss Fs claim.
I also think Admiral should pay Miss Fs loss of use for the time she was without a vehicle at 
£10 a day and to cover any loss she incurred in buying a replacement vehicle. I say this as 
Miss F mitigated her losses by buying a run around so that she could work and stay mobile 
and it is only fair that Admiral covers any costs, if any, that she incurred in doing this. Plus, I 
presently think it should pay Miss F £200 compensation. I know Miss F would like more but I 
can understand why Admiral adopted the position it did initially, and Miss F shouldve 
ensured her tyres were legal.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Miss F accepted my position in terms of 
settling her claim and the loss of use and compensation level suggested.
However, Miss F outlined she wouldnt really incur any additional cost when she sells the 
run around that she bought as she expects to get what she paid for it. And Miss F utilised 
the remainder of her insurance policy, so the only thing she was out of pocket for was the 
additional road tax she had to pay for her replacement vehicle. Plus, Miss F highlighted that 
she should get interest on the amount owed from the point I felt Admiral should have revised 
its position  which was upon receipt of Miss Fs expert opinions.
While Admiral said it asked its inhouse engineer to review everything again following my 
provisional decision. Having looked at the incident circumstances again he was satisfied 
Admiral was correct to repudiate the claim on the basis that the left-hand tyre was worn 
which rendered the vehicle unroadworthy and illegal. Admiral reiterated that the inhouse 
engineer reported this to the independent assessor who fully supported his position. 
Admiral went on to say again that the tyre condition would directly affect the vehicles 
handling and road holding capabilities. It highlighted it was Miss Fs responsibility to ensure 
the car was roadworthy and as the weather conditions were wet the resulting incident is 
consistent with this. It highlighted that there was an advisory from around the time of the last 
MOT and it was Miss Fs responsibility to check her vehicle. And having reviewed Miss Fs 
experts letter Admiral doesnt feel it added anything in the form of a defence that meant it 
should revisit its original decision.  
Then Admiral went on to say it questioned the statements made within Miss Fs experts 
opinions. And ultimately, it maintained if all the tyres were in a serviceable condition it is very 
unlikely the vehicle would have started to lose control. It also highlights that it would expect 
the driver to make adjustments to their driving given the wet weather conditions and potential 
mud and leaves on the road.
Finally, Admiral highlighted the qualifications of its engineer and assessor in support of its 
position. And said Miss Fs experts statement that the tyre condition played no part in the 
cause of this collision in any event is incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld. I dont propose to go 
over the complaint again in full, but I will comment on some of the further representations 
made for completeness.
It is a shame that Admiral didnt revisit its position when Miss F presented her further expert 
opinion or when I asked it for its comment on this evidence before I issued my provisional 
decision. I say this as this would have allowed its further evidence to be considered at an 
earlier stage.
But I have considered its further evidence and representations in full before finalising my 
decision, alongside all the original information that was provided by both sides. And having 
given great consideration to Admirals position I remain of the view that the fair and 
reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is to uphold Miss Fs 
complaint.
I have to weigh up the evidence provided by both sides as I am not an expert in the field. 
And having done so I still think Admiral doesnt have sufficient evidence to say, on balance, 
that the defective tyre caused the accident. Indeed, its further representations dont say the 
accident wouldnt have happened, but its engineer does say they feel it was very unlikely 
and also suggests that the driver should make adjustments to their driving given the 
conditions. 
But Miss Fs experts have cast doubt on this. One said  on the balance of probabilities, 
the tyre was not a contributory factor, while another said the tyres condition played no 
part in the cause of this collision. So, in effect, both sides have cancelled each other out. But 
I feel that Miss Fs experts have cast sufficient doubt on whether the tyre contributed or 
caused the accident, especially when I consider that Miss Fs opinions are from accident 
collision experts with significant collision investigation experience. And the fact that the most 
likely cause of the accident and Miss F leaving the road appears to be due to a 
momentary loss of concentration as opposed to any issue with her tyres or the road 
conditions.
As such I maintain, on balance, Admiral hasnt established that the lack of tread had any 
bearing on the accident. And the fair and reasonable thing to do is for Admiral to settle Miss 
Fs claim. And Admiral should pay Miss Fs loss of use for the time she was without a vehicle 
at £10 a day (£250 total), plus £200 compensation. As Miss F doesnt think there will be any 
loss on the run around I dont need Admiral to do anything else to compensate her. And I 
know Miss F would like her road tax refunded, but she would always have had to pay this 
and could have got a refund on her other car if she wished.
In Miss Fs latest representations her representative highlighted that she has faced an 
increase in premium because she has had a claim declined by Admiral. So, I also think 
Admiral should provide Miss F with a letter of explanation confirming what happened here. 
Miss F can then approach her present insurer to see if any refund is due given that she 
hasnt had a claim declined.  
Finally, I agree that Admiral should pay Miss F interest from the time she provided her expert 
opinion. Miss F suggested December 2020 but looking at the dates of her experts 
responses I think the end of January 2021 seems fair. I say this as I wouldnt have expected 
Admiral to reconsider its position immediately, but it should have done so within a month. I 
made Admiral aware of this and I know it has questioned why it should pay any 
compensation but what I have outlined here feels fair in the particular circumstances of this 
case.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance Company to:
settle Miss Fs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
adding 8% simple interest from the end of January 2021 until the date of settlement,
pay Miss F £200 compensation, 
pay Miss F £250 loss of use for the time she was without a vehicle, and
provide a letter explaining that her claim hasnt been declined.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman