DRN-3348794
The complaint
Mrs T complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has unfairly declined her home 
insurance claim. When I mention esure I also mean its representatives and surveyors.
What happened
Mrs T contacted esure to make a claim in January 2021 when she went into her detached 
garage and found that part of the ceiling inside had fallen down. 
Mrs T told esure there was no sign of water ingress and esures claims department said she 
should ask a builder to provide a report on the cause of the damage. Mrs Ts builder told her 
that the reason for the damage appeared to be because of a lack of support around the 
door. Esure told Mrs T that this probably meant it would exclude the claim due to the cause 
being gradual or wear and tear. 
Esure told Mrs T that if she wanted to continue to try and make the claim then she should 
get a further report into the damage, but it would mean making a claim under her home 
insurance policy even if the damage didnt actually get paid for.
Mrs T contacted esure a few weeks later and told it that her builder said the pressure of 
opening and closing the door was the reason why the ceiling had partially collapsed. She 
made a claim and asked esure to send out a surveyor. 
Esures surveyor visited the property and reported that there were cracks around the door 
because of a lack of support in that location  there didnt seem to be any lintel or other 
supporting structure. Esure then declined the claim due to poor workmanship and it also said 
thered been a build up of condensation due to poor ventilation.
Mrs T was unhappy with esures decision so she brought her complaint to this service. She 
wants esure to repair the damage. One of our investigators looked into her complaint and 
didnt think esure needed to do anything more. She said she thought esure had acted fairly 
in declining Mrs Ts claim and had provided reports to back up why it had declined it. Mrs T 
didnt agree with the view, and asked that an Ombudsman review her complaint, so it has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read both Mrs Ts evidence and esures reports carefully and having done so Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Its important here that Mrs T understands that its her responsibility to provide proof of why 
the damage happened. Its a key principle in insurance that the insured has to prove why the 
loss occurred, and if the insurer wants to decline a claim then it needs to prove why its taken 
that approach. 
When Mrs T contacted esure to notify the damage, the claims handler made the following 
notes:
Mrs T has noticed when she closes the door of the detached garage the plaster is 
falling off the ceiling, there is also a crack in one of the walls, the roof is pitched but 
there is no sign of water ingress.
Esure took the view at the time that this was potentially a claim for subsidence, but because 
Mrs Ts garage is detached, there wouldnt be any cover. So esure told Mrs T to obtain a 
report from her own builder rather than register a claim.
Having done this, Mrs Ts builder said they thought the damage was due to a lack of support 
around the door. Mrs T told esure about this and it declined the claim due to the damage 
being gradual  which would generally be referred to as a wear and tear exclusion.
Mrs T then raised a claim with esure and it sent out a surveyor who agreed with Mrs Ts 
builders points about the lack of support around the door and also mentions that Mrs T was 
drying clothes in the garage. Esures report has some detail about high moisture readings in 
parts of the garage which would seem to confirm that there was potentially some source of 
water inside it that might have contributed to the damaged ceiling. Drying clothes in a garage 
with poor ventilation might be the source of this, but its also possible that the water leaked in 
from the outside.
When esures surveyor visited the property in February 2021 it had recently snowed. Mrs T 
has told this service that her builder said there was a gap in the tiles letting water through 
possibly as a result of high winds and snow, but I cant see any mention of this in esures 
surveyors report. Esures surveyor does mention that there were signs of mortar 
deterioration on the ridgeline.
I have seen esures pictures of the garage with a light covering of snow, and Ive looked at 
the weather in the area around the time, and I dont think it was bad enough to have caused 
damage to the roof. I can also see from the pictures that the wall above the door is bowing 
downwards which would indicate theres no supporting lintel. This evidence supports Mrs Ts 
builders report about a lack of support around the door being the reason for the ceiling 
coming down.
I dont think Mrs T has shown that the damage inside her garage was caused by any of the 
insured perils in her policy. Her original contact with esure telling it about the claim doesnt 
mention snow or wind damage, but it does talk about plaster falling down when the door is 
closed. This indicates to me that the problem was long-established and aggravated by 
vibrations from the door and the lack of support above it.
The points about the lack of a supporting lintel, the possible gap in the tiles and the poor 
mortar indicate to me that the garage showed signs of needing some repairs. As these 
points were made by two separate companies acting on Mrs Ts and esures behalf, I think 
its reasonable for me to say they are correct. So it follows that I agree that esure have acted 
reasonably in declining the claim due to wear and tear. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman