DRN-2939374
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way Nationwide Building Society has run his accounts. He also 
complains about Nationwide conducting maintenance to its systems at inconvenient times, 
problems hes had accessing his accounts, blocks applied to his debit card, the trouble and 
upset he experienced when trying to open a bond and that his accounts were closed. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In July 2019 Mr G was unhappy with Nationwide reducing interest rates and removing 
accounts because the value Nationwide was offering its members was decreasing despite 
the renumeration of Nationwides Chief Executive Officer (CEO) increasing. 
In September 2019 Mr G was unhappy after Nationwide carried out maintenance on its 
faster payments system. He was expecting a payment at the time the maintenance was 
carried out and he says he suffered trouble and upset due to the time the maintenance took 
place (8pm-midnight), which he says was unreasonable. 
In October 2019 Mr G was unhappy about a block that was placed on a transaction he was 
trying to make. After speaking to Nationwide several times, he was told the block was placed 
on his card by the card issuer. Mr G complained about the service he received and the time 
it took to resolve the issue. 
On 26 October 2019 Mr G visited a Nationwide branch to open a member exclusive bond. 
But after travelling to the branch he was told he would need to make an appointment before 
opening the bond. He says he wasnt told by Nationwide that he had to make an 
appointment, so he had wasted his time travelling to the branch. 
Nationwide reviewed the complaints and sent separate final response letters to Mr G. And it 
decided that, after considering the complaints, it felt its business relationship with Mr G had 
broken down irretrievably. So, it gave him notice that his accounts would be closed. 
Mr G remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said she didnt think 
Nationwide had treated Mr G unfairly. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he had been treated 
unfairly and had experienced severe inconvenience due to the actions of Nationwide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr G feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Problems with accessing his mobile banking app
Our rules say that, without business consent, I cant consider a complaint which is referred to 
this service more than six months after the date the business sends its final response letter 
to the customer. This rule is called Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R (1). It can be found in 
the regulators handbook of rules and guidance (available on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) website). Nationwide sent out its final response on 27 June 2019 in 
relation to Mr Gs complaint about accessing his mobile banking app. The letter said if Mr G 
wasnt happy with the response, he had up to six months to bring his complaint to our 
service. So, he had to bring the complaint to us by 27 December 2019. But we didnt hear 
from Mr G until January 2020. So, the complaint was referred to us too late. 
I can help with complaints referred outside of the usual time limits where Im satisfied that 
this was due to exceptional circumstances. But Mr G hasnt raised any exceptional 
circumstances here. So, I believe he could have brought the complaint about accessing his 
mobile applications to us within the six-month timeframe. As a result, Im satisfied I dont 
have the authority to comment on this part of his complaint. 
Changes to accounts and interest rates
Mr G is unhappy with the reduction in interest rates being offered by Nationwide and that 
online savings accounts and rewards schemes had been discontinued, despite the CEO of 
Nationwides renumeration increasing. He says he feels Nationwide isnt providing any value 
to him as a member. 
Nationwide said to this service that it regularly reviews interest rates and the range of 
accounts that it offers to members. After doing so here, it decided to reduce the interest 
rates and remove some of the rewards schemes. Its also added that on one of Mr Gs 
accounts, the interest rate was reduced due to its twelve-month introductory offer expiring. 
The investigator has explained that Nationwide is entitled to make business decisions on 
what interest rates and accounts it wants to offer to members. And it can reduce interest 
rates on accounts with special offers as long as its made it clear in the terms and conditions 
 and Ive seen this is what its done here. Im satisfied, its made a business decision to 
discontinue some accounts and reduce interest rates so it can run a sustainable business. 
So, I havent seen any persuasive evidence its treated Mr G unfairly here. 
I note Mr G has raised a complaint point about the renumeration of Nationwides CEO. But 
Im unable to comment on the salary of Nationwides CEO (or any of its staff) because those 
decisions are up to Nationwide. So, I see no reason to comment on that any further in this 
decision. 
Maintenance to the faster payments system
Mr G said that maintenance to the faster payments system on 11 September 2019 
interrupted an urgent payment he was expecting at that time. He doesnt think Nationwide 
conducting maintenance before 11pm was acceptable. Nationwide has provided a copy of the message it added to its internet banking site on the 
day Mr G was expecting his payment and to its mobile app. The message explained 
maintenance was taking place between 8pm to midnight. 
I note Mr G believes the maintenance caused him inconvenience. But I note the payment he 
was expecting was credited to his account the same day. And I dont think the maintenance 
being conducted at the times Nationwide made clear on its website was wholly 
unreasonable. So, Im not upholding this aspect of Mr Gs complaint. 
Blocks applied to debit card
In October 2019 a block was placed on Mr Gs debit card after he attempted to make a £100 
transaction. He contacted Nationwide and followed the steps he was told to take to confirm 
the transaction was genuine. He tried to make the payment again, but it was unsuccessful. 
Mr G contacted Nationwide a few more times before he was told that the card issuer had 
blocked his card so the transaction couldnt go through. 
I understand this wouldve been frustrating for Mr G and that it took a few phone calls before 
he was told the reason for his transaction being stopped. Nationwide has apologised for the 
issue. I note during a later call Nationwide stayed on the phone with Mr G to make sure the 
transaction was successful. And its explained that transactions are sometimes blocked due 
to security checks to prevent financial harm. I accept this will cause some inconvenience, but 
Im not satisfied Mr G is entitled to a trouble and upset payment here. 
I dont believe it was unreasonable for Nationwide to explain the usual process to Mr G in the 
earlier telephone calls in order to try and make the transaction. And Im satisfied that once 
the reason for the blocked transaction was known, Nationwide took the appropriate steps to 
assist Mr G. So, Im satisfied Nationwide shouldnt have to take any further action here. 
Issues when travelling to a branch to open a bond and Nationwide closing Mr Gs accounts. 
In October 2019 Mr G went to a branch to open a member exclusive bond which was on 
offer after Nationwide told him on social media there were no plans to close it. To reach the 
branch Mr G had to take a one-hour bus journey. After arriving around 4pm, Mr G was told 
he needed to make an appointment to open the bond. Despite being given a new 
appointment Mr G cancelled this due to the severe trouble and upset he experienced in 
travelling to the branch. Mr G says there was no information on Nationwides website about 
making an appointment and he wasnt told about making an appointment when he was 
speaking to Nationwide on social media.  
Nationwide has said there isnt information on its website about opening a bond. Its 
explained the branch Mr G attended was extremely busy, and the staff had appointments 
with other customers at the time he arrived. And because the branch closed at 5pm there 
wasnt enough time to open the bond. 
I note Nationwide has said information about making an appointment isnt on its website 
because its not standard practice for all branches. Unfortunately, the branch Mr G attended 
was very busy serving other customers and only had a limited amount of time left before the 
branch closed. Nationwide has explained it can take up to an hour to complete the 
application for the bond. Im sure Mr G was left frustrated following the journey he had made. 
But Im satisfied this wasnt as a result of a banking error on Nationwides part. Rather it was 
an unfortunate set of circumstances based upon the time of day and the branch being busy 
when Mr G arrived. So, Im not satisfied Nationwide should offer Mr G a trouble and upset 
payment here. Im sure Mr G wouldve been disappointed with what he feels was an unacceptable decision 
by Nationwide to close his accounts after receiving his complaint about the bond. Hed like a 
compensation award for the trouble and upset in having to switch current accounts because 
he exercised his right to complain. Nationwide said it made the decision to review its 
business relationship with Mr G following the complaints he had made, and it decided its 
relationship with him had broken down irretrievably. 
I dont dispute that Mr G has a right to complain to Nationwide when he feels he has suffered 
inconvenience or when he would like to provide feedback on the service he received. And I 
also agree that Nationwide has the right to review its relationship with one of its members 
and make a decision as to whether it wants to continue providing that service. The 
investigator has explained that Nationwides terms and conditions say they can close Mr Gs 
accounts for any reason as long as he is given the required notice period  sixty days. Ive 
reviewed the evidence here and I can see Mr G was given the sixty-days notice period in 
line with the terms and conditions. So, I dont think he was treated unfairly when his 
accounts were closed.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman