DRN-4204920
The complaint
Mr K has complained about West Bay Insurance Plc. He isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim under his motorbike insurance and the way it dealt with his claim generally. 
Ive referred to West Bay in this decision for ease, although I realise Mr K dealt with West 
Bays claim handling agent and they issued the final response on his complaint on behalf of 
West Bay.
What happened
Mr Ks motorbike was stolen from outside his home address and he made a claim under his 
insurance policy. The bike was stolen recovered, but it was written off because of the 
damage caused to it. However, when West Bay looked into the circumstances surrounding 
the theft it turned down the claim. This was because Mr Ks bike wasnt secured in his 
secure shed/garage area which was a requirement of the policy. 
As Mr K wasnt happy about this and the way West Bay dealt with his claim he complained. 
It acknowledged a number of failings in the way it dealt with the claim, but West Bay thought 
that it acted reasonably in declining the claim as his bike wasnt stored in line with an 
endorsement on the policy. It offered a total of £425 in compensation for a number of failings 
including the customer service issues Mr K faced during the decline of the claim (£75); the 
fact it lost his motorcycle keys and documentation when it returned his bike (£200) plus any 
costs incurred in gaining replacement documents; and £150 for a delay in reinstating Mr Ks 
no claims bonus (NCB). But as Mr K remained unhappy he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
sympathised with the position Mr K had found himself in following the theft of his bike she 
didnt think West Bay had done anything wrong when it turned down his claim in line with the 
policy. And she thought it had acted fairly in offering £425 compensation for the errors it had 
made in dealing with Mr Ks claim. 
As Mr K didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr K has found himself in as he has been 
the victim of theft here. However, I have to be fair to both sides when I consider complaints. 
And in this instance I dont think West Bay did anything wrong when it turned down Mr Ks 
claim. Ill explain why.
Mr K had returned home late at night and parked his bike outside his home address as he 
intended using it the following morning. And when he had finished eating he noticed the bike 
was missing so he reported the theft to the police and his insurer. But Mr Ks policy has an 
endorsement (E434) which is clearly outlined in the policy documentation which says theft is 
excluded at his home address when it isnt kept securely in his private locked garage or 
building. The endorsement makes it clear that any theft within a 500 metre radius of his 
home address when the vehicle is not locked in the secure area wasnt covered, although 
the bike was covered when he was away from his home address. 
So, despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr K has found himself I cant say West 
Bay have done anything wrong in following the policy terms and endorsement in this case. 
Most motorbike insurers have similar exclusions in place as they wish to ensure theft of any 
motorbike is difficult and they wish to limit their risk. And bikes can easily be lifted and stolen 
if not secured properly which is why they have such limitations of cover in place. Indeed, I 
note Mr K has other bikes and additional security measures in place in his secure 
shed/garage and it would have been far more difficult for a thief to take his bike if he had 
secured it in line with the policy endorsement  which is why West Bay has the endorsement 
on the policy.  
Turning to the level of service West Bay has provided it is clear that it got a number of things 
wrong in the way it dealt with Mr Ks claim including the customer service it provided; the 
delay in returning his NCB; and especially the way it handled the return of his bike. It must 
have been very stressful for Mr K to have had his bike returned, following the decline of his 
claim after being stolen, to find that West Bay had lost all his paperwork and keys. However, 
I think West Bays offer of £425 compensation in acknowledgement of the difficulties it 
caused Mr K seems fair in addition to ensuring it pays any costs Mr K incurs in getting all his 
supporting documentation and keys back in order.
Given all of this I cant conclude that West Bay has acted unreasonably here as it simply 
followed the policy terms and conditions in turning Mr Ks theft claim down. And its offer of 
£425 (total) compensation for the various failings it made in dealing with the claim seems 
fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think West Bay Insurance Plc has acted 
reasonably here. Ill simply leave it to pay Mr K £415 compensation if it hasnt already and to 
advance any additional costs Mr K incurred in relation to its loss of his keys and 
documentation with him directly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman