DRN-3216340
The complaint
Ms B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money introduced a new smart 
phone application (app) that didnt allow for two credit cards to be registered. 
What happened
Ms B has two Virgin Money credit cards. Both credit cards had 0% promotional interest rates 
that ended in the second half of 2021. 
Towards the end of 2020, Virgin Money contacted card holders to advise its online banking 
facility was being withdrawn and that a new app had been introduced to manage credit 
cards. But at the point it was introduced the app only allowed customers to administer one 
credit card. 
Ms B complained and Virgin Money sent her a final response. Virgin Money confirmed the 
new app could only support one credit card and said new features would be introduced at a 
later date. 
Ms B referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. During the 
investigation, Virgin Money confirmed it had introduced a facility that allowed customers to 
add a second credit card to the app. But, because Ms Bs credit cards were opened in 
slightly different names, it wasnt possible for her to add them to the app. 
The investigator thought Virgin Money had dealt with Ms Bs complaint fairly. Ms B asked to 
appeal and said the ability to add a second credit card was only introduced after she 
complained. Ms B also said the remaining option to manage the credit card that wasnt 
added to the app was via paper credit card statements. Ms B confirmed she hadnt suffered 
a loss but was caused unnecessary stress by having to manage her credit card without 
compromising her credit score. Ms B also pointed out that because her credit cards were 
opened in slightly different names she wasnt able to add the second to the app. As Ms B 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money says it took the decision to close its online banking facility and replace it with a 
phone app instead. I understand that meant Ms B wasnt able to access both her credit 
cards online anymore and that she feels the step of introducing a replacement app without 
that function was unfair. I agree it was less convenient for Ms B when the new app was 
brought in as she could only manage one credit card with it. But, Virgin Money was able to 
provide monthly statements and telephone contact that meant Ms B was able to administer 
her account. And Ms B has confirmed the introduction of the new app didnt lead to a 
financial loss. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms B but I havent found that Virgin Money treated her unfairly in this 
case. Whilst I agree there was some additional inconvenience caused to Ms B by removing 
the full online banking facility, I think the monthly statements Virgin Money issued provided 
sufficient information that meant the credit card could be administered. In addition, Ms B had 
the option of contacting Virgin Money by phone to get information about her accounts. 
Ive reviewed Ms Bs credit card statements and they dont show evidence of extensive new 
spending. The credit card statements show Ms B was making payments to reduce the 
outstanding balances that were held on 0% promotional interest rates. The balances on both 
credit cards were repaid by the point the promotional interest rates expired. So whilst I agree 
it was less convenient without access to online banking, I havent been persuaded that Ms B 
was unreasonably impacted by the change Virgin Money brought in. 
Ms B has explained she was unable to add her second card to the app after Virgin Money 
updated it to allow additional cards. Virgin Money has confirmed thats because Ms Bs cards 
were opened with slight differences in the name format. Virgin Money has confirmed that Ms 
B can link both her credit cards to the app but will need to amend her first name so both 
accounts match. Once that step has been completed, Ms B can add the second card to the 
app. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances and means Ms B will be able to access 
her credit cards via the app once the names on her accounts match. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms B but as Im satisfied that Virgin Money has dealt with her 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman