DRN-4219298
The complaint
Mr C complains about information relating to a whole of life policy he holds with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited which he says is misleading.
What happened
Mr C complained to Aviva after receiving a premium increase notification for his policy. He 
said the policy documentation was misleading and disingenuous about how the premiums 
would increase over time. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint saying the policy was doing what it was designed to do in 
relation to the annual increases. As a gesture of goodwill Aviva paid Mr C £100 for the time 
taken in bringing his concerns to them.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the documentation wasnt misleading 
and that Aviva were administering the policy correctly.
After considering further information from Mr C an agreement couldnt be reached so the 
matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr C that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised 
some of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service and no offense is 
intended. 
The crux of this complaint is around the wording of the index linked increase part of the 
policy documentation which says:
Your cover amount will automatically go up every year, in line with the rate of the Retail 
Prices Index (RPI) increase, up to a maximum of 10%. Your premiums will also go up. 
Theyll go up by no more than 2.0 times the percentage increase in the cover amount. 
Aviva have said that for Mr C the increase will always be a factor of 2.0 due to the type of 
policy he has.
Mr C says the wording is misleading because of the phrase by no more than when for his 
policy the increase will always be a factor of 2.0. 
Aviva say the policy is working correctly as a factor of 2.0 has been applied as set out in the 
documentation. They also say that other types of policies with index linked options are 
covered under the same documentation, and some of those have a lower factor. So this is 
why the phrase by no more than is used.  
This complaint isnt about the sale of the policy and nor about any suitability issues as the 
policy was sold to Mr C by a third party. This complaint is about how the policy is being 
administered. 
The policy documentation says that an increase in premiums of up to 2.0 will be applied. And 
thats what happened. So Im satisfied the policy is working as it should. 
Mr C says the policy documentation is misleading as the wording gives the wrong 
impression. And he goes on to say that he wouldnt have bought the policy had the wording 
been clearer about the level of increase. Any concerns about how the product was explained 
should be addressed to the business who sold Mr C the policy. 
Having looked at the documentation I dont think the policy wording is misleading. It explains 
that a factor of up to 2.0 will be applied. And thats the case for all policies covered by the 
documentation. Increases havent been applied outside what was explained. 
I know Mr C thinks the wording shouldve been clearer, and Ive read all of his submissions 
about why he feels that way. He says that the documentation suggests a worse case 
scenario when there are no other scenarios as the increase will always be double the RPI. 
And for Mr Cs policy that might be the case, however the documentation explains this. So 
Im not persuaded the documentation is misleading. It explains what might happen, and 
Aviva have administered the policy in this way.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly and 
reasonably when administering the policy so wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman