DRN-3228219
The complaint
Mrs N complains on behalf of the estate of Mr N, her late husband about information she 
was given by Phoenix Life Limited about a life assurance plan.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs N contacted Phoenix Life to advise that her husband had passed away 
in July 2019. She sent in the death certificate and Phoenix Life confirmed the benefit value of 
his investment at the date he passed away. It required Mrs N to complete certain form which 
it sent to her. 
In March 2020 Mrs N called Phoenix Life to discuss the settlement options. She was 
concerned about the falling stock market and the impact this may have on the investment. 
She said that she was afraid to make the claim in case she lost money. However the agent 
reassured her that when a claim is made when a policyholder passes away theyd used the 
figure available from the date of death. He said that the figure would be guaranteed and 
wouldnt fluctuate with the market. Here is was £41,079.30 gross.
Mrs N then submitted the claim form with a hand-written note confirming what she had been 
advised. However, the net settlement she received was £28,262.07.
Phoenix Life admitted that they had given Mrs N incorrect information. Also as there had 
been a delay of about a month in settling her claim they offered interest on the settlement as 
well as £175 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay and incorrect information.
Unhappy with this Mrs N brought the complaint here on behalf of Mr Ns estate. Our 
investigator found that the estate had lost out financially and recommended that Phoenix Life 
pay the value of the investment at a later date  the date settlement was made. Mrs N 
agreed but Phoenix Life didnt. It argued that compensation was payable for loss of 
expectation but did not agree with the calculation the investigator proposed.
As no agreement was reached I issued a provisional decision. I said as follows:
The facts of this matter are not in dispute. Phoenix Life accepts that it gave Mrs N incorrect 
information.
Im satisfied that she relied on that information when submitting the claim. She was clearly 
concerned about losing money on the fund and if she had been correctly advised Im 
satisfied that she wouldnt have submitted her claim at that time; rather she would have 
waited for the market to recover. Values submitted by Phoenix Life show that it now has.
Accordingly Im satisfied that there has been a financial loss, rather than just a loss of 
expectation. 
It is now not possible to put the estate back in the position it would have been in, because 
the settlement has been made and values change frequently. Nevertheless I find that Mrs N 
would have waited until the value was something in the region of £41,079.30  as she was 
happy to cash in at this value. Phoenix Life is permitted to apply capital gains tax to the plan, 
and had it done so the net figure on £41,079.30 would have been £36,173.
As I have indicated, it is not possible to calculate exactly what the settlement would have
been had Mrs N waited, but she was clearly happy to claim at the £41,079 figure so I find it
is fair and reasonable to take that figure to calculate her loss. Mrs N has shown that she has
put the money she did receive into a savings account, I note that the interest rate was very
low. I find it is likely she would have done the same with this sum. I find that the estate has
suffered a loss and fair compensation is £7,911. Interest on this sum would have been very
limited and given that I cant say for sure when the claim would have been made, Im not
minded to award interest.
Phoenix Life have offered £175 in compensation and a sum in interest. I cant award
compensation for distress to Mr Ns estate and I dont intend to award further compensation
delay.
Accordingly I said that I was minded to uphold the complaint and to require Phoenix Life to 
pay the estate of Mr N £7,911. I invited the parties to respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs N on behalf of Mr Ns estate accepted the decision. Phoenix Life said that it had nothing 
further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As my provisional findings have been accepted on behalf of the estate and Phoenix Life has 
nothing further to add I see no reason to change my provisional findings, which I adopt here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I require Phoenix Life Limited to pay 
the estate of Mr N £7,911.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 January 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman