DRN-3411272
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) didnt allow him to pay 
the cost of a claim hed made under his motor insurance policy. He says he wanted to avoid 
losing his no claims bonus (NCB) and had explained this to Admiral.
What happened
Mr Cs car was vandalised. He called Admiral and reached its out of hours service. The car 
was recovered, and Mr C was told to expect a call to discuss what would happen next. He 
says he didnt receive a call and complains about the overall standard of service he 
received. This matter is being dealt with separately to this complaint. 
Mr C made Admiral aware that he wanted to look into paying for the repairs himself to avoid 
losing his NCB. But the claim was progressed without further discussion with Mr C. 
Admiral says Mr C called it to ask if he stopped the claim would he still lose his NCB. He was 
told he would need to pay the cost of storage and recovery, but at this point the repairs 
hadnt begun. Admiral says it didnt do enough to ensure contact was made with Mr C 
following this discussion. It offered £150 compensation for its failings and says Mr C can pay 
the cost of the claim if he chooses and contact his new insurer to discuss the impact on his 
premium.   
Mr C wasnt happy with this response, so he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Admiral had treated Mr C fairly in 
offering to reinstate his NCB if he paid for the claim and offering £150 compensation for the 
poor service. Mr C didnt agree and provided quotes to show he couldve arranged repairs 
for less. Our investigator didnt change her view, so Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Admiral doesnt dispute that it failed to clarify with Mr C if he wanted to pay the claim value. 
Its clear this was a failing on its part, and I think its fair that it provided compensation to 
acknowledge the inconvenience this caused him.
Admiral has since offered Mr C the opportunity to pay the cost of the claim. It says this will 
allow his NCB to be reinstated. I think this is also fair as the business accepts that it failed to 
clarify if Mr C wanted to pay the claim, after hed made it aware he might want to do this. 
Mr C says because Admiral recorded his claim, hes now paid a higher premium to his new 
insurer. 
I think its useful for Mr C to understand that all insurers signed up to the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) will record any incident they are made aware of. This is done 
whether the incident leads to a claim or not. In this case the claim with Admiral will be visible 
on the database even if Mr C pays the full cost of the claim. 
All insurers assess risk and calculate premiums differently, so the fact an incident has been 
recorded may still impact on his new insurers premium. I say this as Mr C may wish to 
discuss this point with his insurer before deciding whether to pay the cost of the claim.   
I have thought about whether Mr C has been disadvantaged, given his view that he couldve 
repaired his car at a lower cost using a different garage. Ive read the alternative quotes he 
has provided. The last quote he supplied is for £580. It says the repairs to the two windows 
will cost £315, with a labour charge of £175. This is in addition to the £90 cost of recovering 
the car to the garage. 
We asked Mr C for a more detailed breakdown showing a full list of the parts to be used in 
the repairs. This is because the cost of parts shown is significantly less than shown in 
Admirals invoice. Its not clear that Mr Cs quote includes all the parts used to carry out the 
repairs to his car. This would also mean the labour cost doesnt reflect the time needed to 
carry out the repairs Admiral arranged. Mr C says he wasnt able to obtain a more detailed 
quote.
I acknowledge Mr Cs comments that his car was driveable after it was vandalised. He says 
he was granted permission by the police to drive it home if he didnt want to have it 
recovered by Admiral. He says he only accepted the recovery as otherwise he would have 
had to leave his car on the road until Admirals claims office opened the next day. 
I understand the point Mr C is making. But he agreed to his car being recovered by Admiral 
as opposed to driving it home. This happened before he discussed paying the cost of the 
claim himself. The recovery cost £283.10 and this will form part of the claim cost should Mr 
C choose to pay it. This cost had already been incurred whether or not Mr C arranged 
repairs with another garage. He would also need to pay an additional recovery charge to 
move the car to the other garage.    
I must base my decision on the evidence provided. Based on what I have seen I dont think 
Mr C has reasonably shown that he couldve arranged for his car to be repaired at a lower 
cost. 
Having considered all of this, I think Admiral did initially treat Mr C unfairly, but it has 
confirmed he can pay the claim should he wish to do so and has paid £150 compensation for 
the inconvenience it caused him, which I think is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman