DRN-2865620
The complaint
 Mr H is represented. He says Hamilton Rose Wealth Management Limited (HR) gave him 
unsuitable advice in 2019 to switch his Personal Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) and that HR is also responsible for the SIPPs unsuitable underlying 
investments. HR is represented, by its solicitors. 
What happened
 Within the fact find document prepared by HR and its suitability letter to Mr H, his overall 
profile  at the time of advice  was recorded as follows:
He was 56 years old, in good health and without dependents.
He had been employed for around 18 months and he was a basic rate (20%) 
taxpayer, earning around £1,650 per month and with a monthly disposable income of 
£190. He intended to reduce his working hours at age 60 and to continue that 
between the ages of 60 and 65. His pension was to supplement his part-time 
employment income in order to maintain the same level of total net income (that is, 
£1,650 per month). His intended retirement age was 65.
He owned his mortgage free home (worth around £260,000) and he had an 
emergency cash fund/savings of £15,000. 
He had a Prudential PP valued at around £217,000 (including a final bonus), into 
which he contributed around £180 per month.
He sought a review of his pension arrangements. He was assessed as having a 
medium risk profile and a capacity for loss of 10% of his pension income.
HR recommended that Mr H switch his PP to an InvestAcc SIPP because it considered that 
the latter gave him the benefits of:
Lower charges and lower costing underlying investments.
Greater growth potential.
Better investment flexibility.
The recommendation was to hold the SIPP on the Jarvis Investment platform, and Mr H was 
advised to do the following:
Allocate 49% of the SIPPs capital to shares in MBH Corporation plc (MBH), a 
Frankfurt listed company that invested in small to medium sized enterprises and 
which the suitability letter described as a higher risk asset.
Allocate 24% of the SIPPs capital to an investment in the Mercantile Diversified 
Fund (MDF), an Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities 
(UCITS) fund that the suitability letter described as a lower risk collective investment 
asset due to the diversified and mixed assets within it.
Allocate 24% of the SIPPs capital to an investment in the Mercantile Opportunities 
Fund (MOF), another UCITS fund. The suitability letter described it as a higher 
medium risk fund, given that it focused on opportunistic investments in small cap and 
emerging markets equities (which constituted a more aggressive market approach) 
but it still held a diversified asset mix.
Hold 3% of the SIPPs capital in cash, in order to hedge against short term illiquidity 
problems.
Mr H followed the switch recommendation and by July 2019 the switch was completed, his 
new SIPP had been set up and it was operational on the Jarvis platform. There is evidence 
of three emailed requests made by HR to Mr H for the sharing of his platform login details, in 
order for HR to make the recommended underlying investments on his behalf. There is no 
evidence of an email reply from him  he says he provided HR with the details over the 
telephone but HR disputes this. 
The SIPPs platform account statement shows the following activities:
£215,000 was credited into the account on 29 July 2019. [Another document from the 
SIPP provider confirms that £219,739.11 was the total transfer value received in the 
SIPP.]
On 14 August 2019 £106,515.23 was used to buy shares in MBH.
On 23 September 2019 £19,999.87 was invested in First Sentinel Plc (FS).
On 24 September 2019 a further £37,999.81 was invested in FS.
On 29 November 2019 £22,499.96 was invested in NQ Minerals Plc (NQ).
On 12 December 2019 a further £25,000 was invested in NQ.
On 13 December 2019 the NQ holding was liquidated, and the proceeds were 
applied to a further investment of £47,499.70 in FS.
On 3 January 2020 around 65% of the FS holding was sold and most of the sold 
shares were then bought back, on the same date, with the sales executed at prices 
lower than the buy-back prices.
Between 14 and 18 February 2020 the FS holding was, it appears, liquidated.
On 25 February 2020 around £30,000 was invested further in NQ.
The SIPP and/or platform account then appears to have been closed around 6 March 
2020. Money and/or assets appear to have been transferred out. The statement 
shows a closing cash balance of around £17,000 on this date, a transfer fee of £20 
(plus VAT) applied to the account on this date and a SIPP Closure Fee of £50 (plus 
VAT) applied to the account on the same date. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. In 
the main, she said:
Evidence conflicts with the profile assessment conducted by HR at the time of 
advice. The risk questionnaire Mr H completed had some contradictions. For 
example, he referred to taking financial risks and disagreed with the notion of putting 
money in a bank account as opposed to putting money into shares, but there was no 
evidence that he had taken financial risks with his money or that he had invested in 
shares; and then, also in contrast, he agreed to taking lower financial risks than the 
average person and strongly agreed that he would prefer a guaranteed rate of 
return as opposed to being uncertain about his investments. It is unlikely Mr H had a 
medium risk profile and the contradictions should have prompted HR to probe further.
Another contradiction was reference, in the questionnaire, to Mr H planning to draw 
from his pension after six to 10 years, which conflicted with confirmation in the 
suitability letter and fact find document that he planned to draw from his pension from 
age 60  four years from the time of advice  in order to supplement part-time 
employment income. According to the questionnaire, a plan to make withdrawals 
within one to five years meant lower risk investments were advisable (in order to 
reduce the risk of short-term falls in value). Overall, it is unlikely that Mr H wanted to take risks with his pension, and it is more 
likely (than not) that he had a low risk profile.
Investing almost half of Mr Hs pension capital (over £100,000) in MBH, which HR 
expressly described as a high-risk fund, mismatched such a low risk profile and 
mismatched the medium risk profile HR had given him.
The regulators expectation within pension switch advice included the consideration 
of costs. In Mr Hs case, the costs analysis was not properly conducted or presented 
to him. The suitability letter said, Total annual plan charges before adviser fees or 
individual fund charges equates to 0.16% and HR presented this as lower charges 
without taking into account the 1.5% adviser fees and the individual fund charges.
Overall, the pension switch HR recommended was unsuitable and was not in Mr Hs 
best interest.
HR says it did not have access to the SIPPs platform account, so it played no part in 
the investments that were made. However, there is evidence that it sought, from     
Mr H, login details for the account and he says he provided HR with those details, so 
it was up to HR to ensure the SIPP was invested as it recommended. 
HR should pay Mr H redress  based on a benchmark comparison exercise  for its 
unsuitable advice and should pay him £300 for the trouble and upset the matter has 
caused him.  
Mr Hs representative commented on this outcome. He mainly said, it is important to ensure 
the precise and accurate transfer value is used to calculate redress for Mr H; SIPP charges 
(including future charges) should be repaid to Mr H separately; redress should be paid into 
the existing SIPP in order to avoid Mr H unfairly incurring tax if paid outside of the SIPP [he 
subsequently acknowledged that redress could be paid in or outside the SIPP, depending on 
whether (or not) the former was possible]; reference, in the investigators redress settings, to 
an assumption that Mr Hs nominal tax rate would be 20% is unsafe, as he might not get 
another part-time job and, based on his state pension, his nominal tax rate could be around 
7.5%; the redress settings should cater for the risk of the existing SIPP holdings falling in 
value before redress is completed; the £300 awarded for trouble and upset is very low; and 
HR should  waive any advice fee they might otherwise have charged.
HR disagreed with the investigators findings and conclusion. It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In the main, it and its solicitors said:
It stands by its assessment of Mr Hs investor profile at the time of advice and by the 
fact finding it conducted in that respect. Mr H agreed the profile it assessed at the 
time, including with regards to his appetite for risk.
It also stands by the switch and underlying investments it recommended and it 
maintains that both were suitable recommendations. 
It had nothing to do with the investments that were executed in the SIPP, and those 
are the investments that have contributed materially to Mr Hs losses. Only one of the 
three funds recommended by HR was invested in  by whoever executed the 
investments  so, having not recommended the other two investments, HR cannot 
reasonably be responsible for any losses from them. It objects to any suggestion that 
it had any role to play in the investments that were made, there is no evidence to 
show this and instead evidence to show the opposite. The notion that it would have 
executed investments that it had not recommended defies logic.
Mr H expressly rejected ongoing advice/services from HR so its service to him ended 
with the recommendation in the suitability letter. 
The Jarvis platform was/is an execution only platform and it did/does not have 
access to Mr Hs SIPPs account on that platform. He never responded to its email 
requests for login details, so it never received such details. 
Even if it is found that HRs advice was unsuitable  which it does not accept  the facts show that the recommendation, as a whole, was not followed by Mr H, that he 
made different investments  followed by a strange sequence of trading  that HR did 
not recommend (and that HR was unaware of), that it is those investments which 
have caused his loss and, as such, it cannot be reasonable to hold HR responsible 
for that loss.
The matter was referred to me. I noted that HRs solicitors had reserved its position in terms 
of compensation. With the investigators help, I requested that they exhaust their 
submissions on all matters, including compensation. We also sought and obtained further 
information from Mr Hs representative about the investment and trading activities in the 
SIPPs platform account.
Mr Hs representative conveyed his assertion that he neither invested (or traded in) the SIPP 
directly nor did he arrange separately for someone else to do so. He summarised Mr Hs 
character as a career professional  in a profession that is remote to financial services  who 
had no knowledge and/or experience in share dealing. He said it defied logic for Mr H to 
have paid a fee to advisers and then decide to make trades himself, despite being a cautious 
novice investor. He maintained that login details were shared with HR and that the MBH 
trade, at least, was made within HR. He then presented a scenario of what the outcomes of 
their investigations suggests was likely to have happened thereafter  involving a named 
individual and a named firm they say were associates of HR, who they believe were also 
involved in the executed investments and trades in the SIPPs platform account.
Mr Hs representative also repeated submissions in support of the merits of the complaint, 
alongside an enclosed supporting statement from a stockbroker that he considered to be 
relevant.
HRs solicitors responded and repeated some of the submissions they had previously made. 
In addition, they asserted that their comments on compensation are made without prejudice 
to their dispute of the complaints merits, and then they mainly said:
Mr H is responsible for the investments and trading that took place in the SIPP, and 
they were done with absolutely no involvement from HR. The inference that should 
be drawn from this is that even if it is found that HRs advice was unsuitable  which 
they dispute  it is probable that whatever advice was given to Mr H the sequence of 
events would have proceeded as they did.
The premise, with regards to redress, for the benchmark comparison exercise  and 
the use of the mixed benchmark proposed by the investigator  is flawed. It is based 
on the notion that what Mr H would have done differently to HRs recommendation is 
unknown. However, what he would have done differently is known because he 
invested differently to what was recommended by HR  so he did what he would 
have done, and he did not follow HRs recommendation. Furthermore, Mr Hs profile 
is not reflected in the mixed benchmark proposed by the investigator.
Overall Mr H departed from HRs advice. HR should not be responsible for the 
outcome thereafter. In the alternative, the Ombudsman cannot fairly hold HR 
responsible for anything other than the MBH fund, which was the only recommended 
investment  out of three  that Mr H executed. If the Ombudsman disagrees and 
applies compensation to the whole SIPP, then the actual value used in the 
calculations should not be based on what the SIPP was invested in but should be 
based on what HR recommended the SIPP to be invested in.
HR did not cause Mr H any trouble and upset to warrant the £300 payment proposed 
by the investigator.
A set of 11 questions  about why Mr H altered the fee paid to HR; about why he 
rejected ongoing service from HR; about access to the SIPPs platform account and the activities within it; about the timing of Mr Hs complaint; about the identity of and 
extent of involvement from his representative; and about what has happened to his 
SIPP to date  should be put to Mr H, as his responses will be of interest to HR and 
should be of interest to the Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Regulatory Context
The regulators Principles for Businesses  Principle 2 requires a firm to conduct its 
business with due skill, care and diligence; and Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The regulators  Conduct of Business  (COBS) rules  COBS 2.1.1R requires a firm 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
clients and in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client; 
and within which COBS 9.2.1R sets out a firms obligation to assess the suitability of 
investments recommended to its clients. 
The regulators checklist (published in 2009) for pension switching, highlighted four 
key issues to be focussed on  Charges (has the consumer been switched to a 
pension that is more expensive than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, 
without good reason?); Existing benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch 
without good reason?); Risk  (has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt 
match their recorded ATR and personal circumstances?); Ongoing fund management 
(has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for ongoing investment 
reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place?)
The regulators pensions related industry alert to firms in 2013 included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages or disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should 
be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is 
contemplating.; and  if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated 
elements from the regulated elements.
The regulators further alert in April 2014 included the following;Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the 
customer, then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to 
be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or 
switch at all as it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Was the switch suitable for Mr H?
All the above were issued before the HRs advice to Mr H in 2019. HR was obliged to 
address key questions, as outlined in the 2009 checklist, in order to determine whether (or 
not) a pension switch was in his best interest. The switch and the SIPP it recommended had 
to be worth the movement away from Mr Hs PP and they should have had meaningful 
prospects of being better for him than the PP, otherwise there would arguably have been no 
point in switching and there would arguably have been no justification in him incurring costs 
associated with switching. 
It follows from the above  and it is implicit within the regulators checklist  that a 
comparison exercise should have been conducted not just between the recommendation 
and Mr Hs investor profile  in terms of suitability  but, primarily and in terms of testing 
whether (or not) a switch was worth performing, between Mr Hs Prudential PP and any 
potential SIPP that HR was considering. This was necessary in order to illustrate whether (or 
not) the latter was in his best interest and, importantly, whether (or not) it was better for him 
than the former. If these could not be established at the outset the idea of a switch should 
reasonably have been abandoned  there would have been no point for him to switch to a 
SIPP that was not in his best interest and /or was not better for him than his PP.
Available evidence shows that the switch was not established as being better for Mr H than 
his PP at the point of advice and that HR appears to have had little or no basis to conclude 
that the underlying investments it proposed for the SIPP held prospects of performing better 
than those in the PP.
The suitability letter features content about why HR considered the switch to be a good idea 
for Mr H and why it considered that the asset allocation it recommended for the SIPP was 
suitable for him. However, little  or very little  was said about why and how the proposed 
SIPP was better than the PP and no performance related comparison between the assets 
proposed for the SIPP and the assets that existed in the PP (about a third of which was 
invested, with the rest seemingly held in cash at the time of advice) was illustrated. HR could 
not possibly establish that the switch and proposed assets were in Mr Hs best interest 
without such information being obtained, analysed and then presented, with advice, to him. 
The suitability letter did not even provide information about the past performances of the 
proposed investments. Of course, an investments past performance is not a guarantee of its 
future performance  and, in some cases, might not even be a reliable indication of future 
performance  but such information nevertheless plays an important role in an investor 
making an informed investment decision, especially one that involves switching from pre-
existing arrangements to new arrangements. The same applies to an adviser making an 
informed assessment of suitability of a recommendation. In terms of performance prospects, 
evidence suggests that neither the adviser nor Mr H were so informed.
Making an informed decision on the idea of a switch was particularly important for Mr H 
given his proximity to the period in which he planned to downgrade to part-time employment and in which he planned to start drawing from his pension to supplement the part-time 
income he expected. He was four years away from this period, yet HR was essentially 
encouraging him to  switch from a known and proven PP [regardless of what the PPs 
performance was up to the time of advice it was at least known] to an unknown SIPP 
invested in unknown assets for which no past performance information was presented in 
comparison to those in the PP. This was arguably somewhat reckless, and it did not amount 
to treating Mr H fairly, it did not amount to upholding his best interest and it did not amount to 
advice performed with due skill, care and diligence  all of which were required by Principles 
2 and 6, and by COBS 2.1.1R.
I also note the absence of any comparison exercise covering the areas highlighted in the 
regulators 2009 checklist. The suitability letter does address some of the areas (for example 
benefits) but it does so only or mainly with regards to what the proposed SIPP offered  not 
in the form of a meaningful comparison that featured the relevant characteristics of the PP 
next to those of the SIPP and a clear illustration of what, if anything, Mr H could get from one 
that he could not get from the other.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I find that HRs advice to Mr H to switch from 
his PP to the SIPP was unsuitable.
Were the recommended investments suitable for Mr H?
I address this, briefly, only for the sake of completeness. I am satisfied that the unsuitability 
of Mr Hs advised SIPP switch is enough to uphold his complaint. I am also satisfied with 
documentary evidence confirming that HR had direct involvement in and oversight of the 
execution and completion of the switch. There are emails in which it updated Mr H on 
progress in the process and then on completion of the process. I mention this in order to 
make clear that whilst HRs solicitors have submitted arguments seeking to distance HR 
from the investments made in the SIPP, as far as execution of the unsuitable switch is 
concerned  which preceded the investments  there is no doubt that HR was directly 
involved. 
I am satisfied that the unsuitable switch is enough to uphold Mr Hs complaint because he 
never should have been advised by HR to switch out of the PP. Had he not done so, what 
followed the switch would not have happened  something different would have happened, 
and I address this further below. Nevertheless, and as I said above, for the sake of 
completeness I have considered the suitability of the investments recommended by HR for 
the SIPP. I find that they were unsuitable for Mr H.
I endorse, and incorporate into this decision, the investigators findings about factfinding 
contradictions that HR should have noticed and resolved prior to advice and her finding that 
the balance of available evidence shows that Mr H had a low risk profile. Even the 
constitution of his PP stands in support of this. With around two thirds of it held in cash and 
only a third invested, this matched a low risk profile. 
Furthermore, it is reasonably clear that Mr H could not afford to take chances with his 
pension capital. He was in good health and I have not seen evidence to diminish the 
prospect that he had many years of retirement ahead of him at the time. His pension was 
worth just over £200,000 and he needed that to generate and sustain his supplemental 
income in four years time and for the period of five years after that, and then to provide him 
with a major part of his income potentially for many years thereafter. I should also note that I 
have not seen evidence that defeats the inexperienced investor  or perhaps novice investor 
 profile that his representative says he had at the time. Overall and on balance, I am 
satisfied that Mr H was a low risk investor.In contrast, HR recommended investment of almost half of his capital into a high-risk stock, 
one which it knew was high-risk, given that it described it as such. Then it recommended 
investment of almost a quarter of his capital into the MOF, which I consider to have been 
broadly comparable to the MBH in terms of risk exposure. I understand HRs description of 
the funds diversified characteristic, but it remained the case that the MOF was essentially a 
fund that speculated on opportunities in inherently risky small cap and emerging markets 
stock. Even HR described the funds method as an aggressive market approach. On 
balance, I consider that it was broadly just as high-risk as the MBH, so a total of 73%  a 
significant majority  of Mr Hs pension capital was recommended for high risk investments. 
This was a stark mismatch with his low risk profile.
Causation
HRs solicitors have clearly sought to argue that a pivotal break in causation exists in Mr Hs 
case, that it cannot fairly be ignored and that its effect is that regardless of my finding(s) on 
the suitability (or otherwise) of HRs advice, it has no  or limited  responsibility for the loss 
claimed by Mr H. In other words, they say Mr H did not apply HRs advice  or did so only 
with regards to MBH (investment into which HR also contends it did not execute)  so it does 
not matter if I find that the advice was unsuitable.
The suggestion from HRs solicitors that Mr H be questioned about what happened in the 
SIPPs platform account is fair. As stated in the background section above, the queries the 
investigator helped me put to him happened even before we received the solicitors 
suggestion. Unfortunately, both sides accounts on the matter continue to conflict and neither 
side has been able to refer to anything beyond what they believe to be the case and what 
they have learnt in their respective enquiries. It also does not appear that Jarvis, the platform 
provider, has provided information to assist in clarifying who conducted the investments and 
trading in the SIPPs platform account. I do not consider that a conclusion, on the balance of 
probabilities, can safely be drawn about this issue. 
For the above reasons, I make no finding(s) on the issue. Furthermore, on balance and for 
the reasons given below, I also do not consider that I need to.
I am not persuaded that there has been the break in causation that HRs solicitors have 
argued. I make this finding with regards to both merits and remedy/redress. A key finding in 
this decision is that Mr H should not have been advised by HR to switch to the SIPP. As I 
said above, had he not done so the events that followed would not have happened. I have 
not seen evidence that he was pre-determined to switch to a SIPP or that he would have 
done so irrespective of what HR advised  either of which might have presented grounds to 
consider a break of causation. Instead, his decision to switch was based on his trust in the 
suitability of HRs recommendation that he should do so  a recommendation that, 
unfortunately, was unsuitable. 
As the regulators 2013 alert addressed, there is an enabling element within pension switch 
advice, especially in a switch that features a vehicle like a SIPP which opens the possibility 
for investments in a variety of financial products. The regulators view was that the advising 
firm holds responsibility for this enabling element too. 
HRs solicitors would probably argue that this applied/applies only to enabling known 
investments, whereas  other than the MBH  none of the investments made in the SIPP 
were known to HR. I do not consider this a successful argument. The underlying mischief 
that the regulator sought/seeks to address was/is the unsuitability in retail clients being 
advised to switch their pension arrangements to a vehicle like a SIPP when, overall, doing 
so was/is not in their best interests. This includes circumstances in which the advising firms 
argue and claim that their role was limited only to the switch and that they had no knowledge of and/or involvement in the SIPPs underlying investments. This is specifically addressed in 
the 2013 alert. Therefore, the enabling element treated in the alert does not only apply to 
circumstances in which a firm knows of the underlying investments. As far as the regulator 
was/is concerned a firms responsibility for enabling also applies when it claims not to have 
knowledge of or involvement in the underlying investments made in a SIPP after a switch  
as HR presently claims.
I repeat, Mr Hs experiences with the SIPP and its investments would not have happened if 
he was not unsuitably advised by HR to switch from his PP to the SIPP; and, overall and on 
balance, I do not consider that HRs responsibility for this has been broken.
The Parties Submissions
In this respect, I refer to both sides responses to my queries. I consider that, within the 
findings above and the redress provisions below, I have essentially addressed the points 
made by Mr Hs representative. I have considered his points about redress. The provisions 
below are broadly consistent with this services approach towards redress in cases like      
Mr Hs and I am satisfied that they set out a basis for fair compensation to him.
I consider similarly for some of the points made by HRs solicitors  that is, they have been 
addressed above. However, some of their other points have not yet been addressed. In this 
regard, I find as follows:
I accept that Mr H sought a pension review, so the implication is that he wanted to 
explore a change to his pension arrangements. This does not automatically mean 
that, with suitable advice, he would have changed his pension arrangements to 
something else (other than the PP and other than what HR recommended) or that he 
would have retained them, so I agree with the investigators finding that what he 
would have done is uncertain. I disagree with HR solicitors argument that what he 
would have done is known and that he would have invested in the way that the SIPP 
was invested. Primarily, it remains fair and reasonable to say that but for HRs SIPP 
switch recommendation it is not clear what Mr H would have done with his PP  so it 
is not even known (or likely) that he would have had a SIPP to invest. Furthermore, it 
has not been established that Mr H conducted or instructed the investments in the 
SIPP he switched to.
As I address below, I consider that the mixed benchmark proposed by the 
investigator is appropriate.
I do not consider that redress should be calculated on a notional value of the 
investments recommended by HR, instead of the SIPPs actual value. What 
happened with the SIPP and its investments was enabled by HRs unsuitable switch 
advice, so it is liable for the actual consequences of that advice including the actual 
value of Mr Hs SIPP.
I endorse the investigators proposal that HR pay Mr H £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him. I do not doubt that his experience, since last year, of the unsuitable 
SIPP would have caused such trouble and upset. That experience was caused by 
HRs unsuitable advice, so it is fair for HR to compensate him for the trouble and 
upset it has caused him. I note that his representative considers the amount to be 
insufficient, but I disagree. I am satisfied that it is broadly consistent with what this 
service has awarded for trouble and upset suffered in comparable cases.
Other than the enquiries into the activities in the platform account, which I have 
made, and the current status of the SIPP  which is stated in the redress section 
below  I do not consider that any of the other questions in the list of 11 questions 
is/are relevant to my determination of merits and remedy/redress in Mr Hs complaint.Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr H as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable advice. On balance, I consider that he would have behaved differently. It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances at the time of advice.
Mr H is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with HR to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to and required for its calculation of redress, which 
it does not already have.
What must HR do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, HR must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to him in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
HR is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it 
must tell Mr H the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly to 
him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
If Mr H had valuable and quantifiable monetary benefits with his PP that have been 
lost, this must be quantified and reflected by HR in the redress payment to him.
Pay Mr H £300 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
If the SIPP is not to be closed or if there is a problem in closing the SIPP, as can 
happen, HR must cover five years of the SIPPs fees, dependent on whether (or not) 
Mr H chooses to keep it operating.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr H in a clear and simple format. 
investment 
nameStatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interestMr Hs
SIPPstill 
existsFor half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return 
Index); for the other half: 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds date of 
switch to 
the SIPPdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr H agrees to HR taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes to. If that is not possible then 
HR may request an undertaking from Mr H  to be drawn up at HRs expense  that he 
repays to HR any amount he may receive from the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in future.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, HR should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if HR totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr H had a low-level ATR for his pension fund.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that Mr Hs profile was in between both benchmarks, in the sense that he 
was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his objective. The 50/50 
combination above would reasonably put him into that position and it broadly reflects 
the sort of return he could have obtained from pension arrangements suited to his 
profile.
compensation limitWhere I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I order Hamilton Rose Wealth 
Management Limited to pay him compensation as set out above and to provide him a 
calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman