DRN-2830558
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc treated him unfairly when the term of his mortgage 
ended. He asks that Santander allows him to build a bungalow on the property to move into, 
before he sells the existing house to repay the mortgage.
What happened
Mr C has an interest only mortgage with Santander, taken out in 2007. The term expired in 
October 2019 with an unpaid balance of about £150,000.
Mr C says the original intention was to sell the property. However, he was granted planning 
consent for a bungalow on the property in mid-2019. He tried to re-mortgage elsewhere but 
was unable to do so. Santander declined to extend the term while he built the bungalow. 
Mr C then asked Santander to release its charge on the part of the land he wanted to build 
on, which Santander also declined. 
Our investigator said Mr Cs proposals  to build on the property or to split the property title  
were outside Santanders lending policy. It might also affect the value and marketability of 
the property over which Santander has security and therefore Mr Cs ability to repay the 
mortgage balance.
Mr C didnt agree. He sent a letter from a friend and former business partner. In summary, 
they said the property is worth considerably more than the outstanding mortgage balance, 
and this would remain the case if part of the land was transferred to a separate title. They 
said there was a tax benefit to Mr C in this arrangement. Mr C had funds available for the 
development. And Santander should look at the case on its individual merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs wife died recently. Im very sorry for this. And Im sorry that Mr C has had to deal with 
issues with his mortgage during such an upsetting and difficult time.
Mr C asked Santander for an extension to his mortgage for 12 to 18 months, to give him time 
to build a second property on the land. He would then sell the existing property to repay the 
mortgage. Under the terms of the mortgage Mr C would need Santanders consent to the 
development. Or hed need Santander to agree to split the title, to remove the land hed like 
to build on.
So the extension of the mortgage term is linked to the development. Mr C wants to extend 
the term to give him time to build a bungalow before selling the house he lives in. There 
would be no point in extending the term if Santander didnt agree to the proposed 
development. However, Santander says this doesnt meet its lending policy. It provided 
extracts from its lending policy, and I think it applied its policy correctly here.
I dont think I can reasonably require Santander to agree to Mr C building a bungalow on the 
property or to him dividing the property title and releasing its charge over part of it. Mr C says 
Santander should look at this matter on its individual merits. I do understand why Mr C says 
this. But I must be fair to both parties. When Santander lent the money it did so on the basis 
it had security over the property. Its entitled to consider the effect the proposed development 
might have on its security. Having less land and another house close by might affect the 
value and saleability of the property. It might be difficult to market and sell the property if for 
some reason this was necessary before the building work is complete.
As Santander wont consent to the development, I cant see that its in Mr Cs best interests 
to require Santander to extend the term. Mr C wont be in a different position at the end of 
the extension, and hell have paid more interest in the meantime.
Mr C says he has funds for the development. And he says the property is worth a lot more 
than the outstanding mortgage balance, even without the land to be developed. Mr C might 
want to consider taking independent financial advice and/or legal advice about his options. 
For instance, if its possible to repay the Santander mortgage through the sale of the existing 
house and garden and split the title at completion. If this was possible, hed be able to repay 
the mortgage and keep the plot of land for development.
Santander held possession action while the complaint has been with us. Mr C should keep 
Santander informed about the steps hes taking to repay the mortgage. I would remind 
Santander of its duty to treat Mr C fairly. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman