DRN-2668949
The complaint
Mr J complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited didnt inform him that 
the policy limit on his pet insurance policy was £1,000 for his cats treatment  and wont pay 
the claim in full.
 
What happened
Mr Js cat was injured in a road traffic accident in July 2020 and was taken to the vets. Mr J 
called Red Sands to make a claim and says there was no mention of there being a £1,000 
condition limit during this call. The treatment costs came to £1,844.67 and Mr J is unhappy 
that Red Sands will only pay £1,000, less the excess. Mr J says he has a £4,000 annual limit 
with a condition limit of £1,000, but Red Sands says an accident is treated as one condition. 
Mr J says his cat was being treated for different conditions by the vet, and Red Sands didnt 
mention on his initial call that an accident would be treated as one condition. He says he 
cant afford to pay the additional amount and had he known of this limit, he would have told 
the vets to cap the treatment at £1,000. He thinks the remaining £844.67 should be paid.
Red Sands said Mr J had received the policy documents when the policy was taken out and 
these show the limits of the policy - and although his cat had suffered various injuries, this 
was as a result of the same accident, so it fell under one condition limit. Red Sands did 
accept that its agent hadnt confirmed the policy limits to Mr J when hed called. It apologised 
for this but didnt think it needed to pay more towards Mr Js claim. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She acknowledged that the cover amounts are set out 
in the documents. But she said the agent should have confirmed the limits on the phone call 
and if this had happened Mr J wouldnt have continued with treatment. So she felt hed been 
disadvantaged and recommended Red Sands pay Mr J £693.56 with 8% interest.
Mr J accepted this, but Red Sands didnt. It said it acknowledged that the policy limit wasnt 
provided to Mr J, but said he hadnt questioned the limit during the phone call. It said the 
policy documents had been sent to Mr J and he could have queried it within the call. Red 
Sands referred to the vets notes which detailed Mr J discussing his concerns with the vet 
that the current bill was £1,000 and he didnt have the funds for further treatment. Red 
Sands thought this showed Mr J was aware of the £1,000 limit.
The investigator considered this further, but still felt the complaint should be upheld. She 
thought there was an opportunity to advise Mr J about the limits during the initial call and 
didnt think the service hed received was good enough. She also recommended that £99 for 
the excess be added to the settlement as an insurer shouldnt advertise a £1,000 limit if the 
customer cant benefit from that amount. 
Red Sands didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy covers vet fees for all reasonable costs for treatment of your pet by a vet due 
to accident, illness or disease up to the maximum benefit limit as specified in your schedule. 
So in the event of a claim, Mr J could expect that treatment costs would be paid up to the 
maximum benefit limit in his schedule.
Mr Js policy schedule gives an annual condition limit of £1,000 and an annual policy limit of 
£4,000.  Theres information which shows how the policy limits are applied within the policy 
wording. It says:
These policies have an annual limit, which will dictate how much money you can claim 
within one year, and a per condition limit which tells you how much you can claim for a single 
condition in your 365 day window.
Condition is defined within the policy wording as:
any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any manifestation of an
illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease process 
regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body affected.
It also defines excess as:
the amount you pay towards a claim for a condition under the Vet fees and the amount 
per claim under the Public Liability sections of cover and as specified on your schedule. The 
excess is deducted from the Maximum Benefit Limit for each new condition under Vet fees 
per policy year, and from the Maximum Benefit for each claim under the Public Liability 
section of cover.
Insurers are required to deal with claims promptly and fairly and provide reasonable 
guidance to help a policyholder make a claim, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mr J called Red Sands to claim after his cat had been taken to the vets following the 
accident. The agent explained how the claim could be made, but didnt confirm the policy 
limits relevant to the policy. 
The policy documents were sent to Mr J after he took out the policy. This included the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), terms of business, policy wording, 
schedule and demands and needs. The limits of the policy are set out and the wording 
confirms that the annual limit is the total amount that can be claimed within one year, with 
the per condition limit being how much can be claimed for a single condition. I note that Mr J 
says he wasnt aware that an accident would be classed as one condition, despite his cat 
receiving treatment for multiple conditions. But the policy definition of condition does 
confirm that injury resulting from one single accident is considered one condition, regardless 
of the number of injuries or areas of the pets body that are affected. So on the basis of the 
policy wording, the injuries sustained in the accident would normally be considered to be as 
one condition.
However, Ive listened to the call Mr J made to Red Sands. The agent doesnt discuss the 
limits with him. Mr J doesnt actually ask the agent to confirm the policy limits. But the agent 
doesnt seem to be paying attention to Mr J. Despite Mr J explaining that his cat had just 
been involved in an accident and taken to the vets the agent asks him when the incident 
happened. And he also asks him twice what condition has occurred. Mr J wouldnt have 
known at that point the extent of the injuries. But he did say that already the current estimate 
was looking to be £400-£500. The agent didnt explore this with him or explain that the limit was only £1,000. The agent does mention the policy excess and limits but doesnt explain 
how these work. He refers Mr J to the online process for making a claim.
Red Sand itself acknowledges the agent should have explained the limits  in its response to 
Mr J, Red Sands offered a sincere apology for this information not being disclosed, saying 
this was not the level of service it aims to provide, and said feedback has been passed to the 
relevant department to ensure this does not happen again. 
I dont think the agent did enough to clarify things for Mr J. But I still need to consider what 
difference that made and whether Mr J would have acted differently had he known what the 
limit was. The vets notes show Mr J was considering euthanasia due to the escalating costs, 
the prognosis and long term expectations. These notes confirm that the bill was currently 
£1,000 and Mr J advised the vets that he didnt have the funds for this. So I think if Mr J had 
known he could only claim up to £1,000 its likely he would have asked the vets to cap the 
costs at that level; I dont think he would have continued to incur more costs when hed 
made it clear he couldnt afford that. 
I think the first few days of treatment would still have taken place but more likely than not 
from the 5 July 2020 onwards Mr J wouldnt have continued. I say this because there is a 
conversation recorded on 3 July where Mr J and his family were leaning towards euthanasia 
given cost concerns and theres reference to the bill at that time being £1,000. 
Taking everything into account, I believe that if the agent had explained the limit and the fact 
he had already reached half of this in one day then its unlikely Mr J would have continued 
with treatment after 5 July. So I agree with our investigator that Red Sands should pay these 
costs of £693.56. Interest should also be added from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
With regards to the excess, I wouldnt generally say its fair for Red Sands to deduct the £99 
from the condition limit of £1,000 as I dont think its clear enough in the policy documents 
that it will be applied in this way, meaning the policyholder would never be able to claim up 
to the limit of £1,000. But since I am directing Red Sands to pay over the £1,000 limit I dont 
think it needs to refund this in addition to the additional treatment costs.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to pay to Mr J the sum of £693.56 together with simple interest of 8% from 
the date of claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman