DRN-2904205
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr S and Mrs S 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out, in 1993 and 1998, to cover 
mortgages.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be not upheld. Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. 
When I looked at the case, I reached the same overall conclusions as the adjudicator. But 
some of my reasons were slightly different. So I wanted to give Mr S and Mrs S, and Bank of 
Scotland, the opportunity to comment and send in more evidence if they wished. 
I set out my thinking in a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
My current view is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Mr S and Mrs S say that it was not made clear that PPI was optional, and it was 
implied that taking PPI would assist them in qualifying for a mortgage. They say they 
didnt need PPI because of the security of their employment and the good sickness 
benefits theyd have got from their employers. In 1993 they also had a free mortgage 
protection policy supplied by their housebuilder.
One problem I have, in making a fair decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact 
words used by the advisers and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily 
wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the 
adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually 
something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real 
sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is.
And Im conscious that this happened more than 23 years ago, and I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago. So it wouldnt be 
fair to rely only on what they now remember, in the absence of other supporting 
evidence.
Mr S and Mrs S have said the mortgage documents they received, and the single 
monthly payments, didnt make clear that the insurance was a separate product. I 
think thats a matter of interpretation. But, even if this is correct, that wouldnt by itself 
show that the PPI wasnt presented as a separate product that was optional. There 
is, surviving, a separate application form for PPI from the 1998 sale; and I think its 
likely there was also a separate application form (or section of the mortgage 
application form) to show this was a choice for the 1993 mortgage. The insurer, 
which is a separate organisation, would normally expect to see a separate 
authorisation from the customer.
So, although I accept that what Mr S and Mrs S are remembering is possibly 
accurate, I dont have strong evidence that the PPI wasnt presented as optional, for 
both the sales.
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case. I will explain 
why.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S, and this means it 
had a higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the 
PPI was suitable for Mr S and Mrs Ss particular circumstances. But it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
PPI was often of questionable value on certain types of borrowing, but it often was a 
good idea for mortgages  being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr S and Mrs S 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off 
the time when they would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may 
have had. This all would have put Mr S and Mrs S in a more secure position, if they 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. Even though it 
was an extra cost when they had just bought a home, Ive not been told anything to 
suggest they couldnt actually afford the PPI when they took it out. And it doesnt look 
as though significant limitations (exclusions) in the policy were likely to affect them.
Mr S and Mrs S have sent us a copy of an insurance policy that covered them for two 
years from 1993 to 1995. This was given to them free by the seller of their new-build 
property. Mr S and Mrs S say this means the Bank of Scotland PPI was unnecessary 
for them in 1993, and so shouldnt have been recommended to them.
Ive looked at the terms of the free policy, and I dont agree it made the Bank of 
Scotland policy unnecessary. The free policy only covered Mr S and Mrs S for 
unemployment. It didnt offer sickness cover. So the Bank of Scotland 
recommendation was for something additional, and I think it was potentially useful, 
for the reasons Ive already given. So the recommendation was suitable, and it was 
then for Mr S and Mrs S to decide whether to go ahead with the PPI (assuming they 
had a choice  which I accept they are saying they didnt feel was the case).
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But, even if it was shown that Bank of Scotland gave inadequate information, 
that doesnt by itself mean the policies were mis-sold. I would, instead, have to 
believe that its likely Mr S and Mrs S would have decided against taking the PPI, if 
theyd had all relevant information. But I dont think theres information about the PPI 
policies that is likely to have put them off taking the PPI. I dont think full information 
is likely to have made the PPI seem less useful to them in any significant way.Mr S and Mrs S have pointed out that they had private health insurance cover. But I 
dont think private health care would realistically have made it less likely theyd need 
to make use of the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr S and Mrs S would have been affected by any of these. Its 
likely they were eligible for the policy, and so would be entitled to make a claim; and 
theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost 
if their situation changed.
Bank of Scotland didnt make any further comments. Mrs S said she didnt agree with me. 
She made a number of points, which Ill summarise:
1993 policy:
Bank of Scotland took advantage of Mr S and Mrs Ss young age and lack of 
experience. They would not have known the PPI was optional. 
Mrs S has kept extensive records from the time, and believes she has all the 
documents that were actually given to them: she has no separate application forms 
for PPI. 
There should have been wording to show that the PPI was a choice, and to remind 
them to check it was suitable. 
The wording of the offer implied this was a package of which PPI was a part. 
She had not realised the free policy, provided by the housebuilder, only covered 
unemployment. But Mr S and Mrs S still wouldnt have taken the PPI as they were 
young and healthy with good employer benefits. They made Bank of Scotland aware 
of the housebuilder policy, so the recommendation was not suitable. They should 
have been offered a sickness-only policy, which is likely to have been cheaper. 
Mr S and Mrs S did have to watch their monthly costs carefully. 
1998 policy:
Based on previous experience, Mr and Mrs S still believed PPI was required. The 
process was quick and Halifax knew they needed the offer quickly to secure the 
property. 
Their endowment policy provided serious illness and disability benefit. Therefore, 
being told the benefits of the PPI would have assisted them in making a comparison.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mrs S has said, but Ive still decided not to uphold this 
complaint. 
When I was looking at the suitability of Bank of Scotlands recommendation of the policies, I 
was considering whether the policies would have been of no or little use to Mr S and Mrs S  
or that the cost was clearly something unwise for them to take on. If this had been the case, 
its likely Id have said the PPI was mis-sold as it shouldnt have been recommended. But this wasnt the case  the policies were potentially useful because they offered more 
protection than Mr S and Mrs S already had, through their employers benefits and through 
other policies such as the free two-year unemployment cover from the housebuilders or the 
endowment policy cover (such policies would pay out only in cases of very serious ill-health). 
It would have been in place for the full length of the mortgage. And, even though I accept it is 
likely they would need to watch their spending, there wasnt evidence of serious financial 
hardship  and if there had been, its also unlikely theyd have been offered a mortgage. 
Whether it was actually worth the cost, taking into account the cover they did have, would 
have been for Mr S and Mrs S to have decided, not Bank of Scotland. 
The remaining questions would then be whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs S 
enough information on which to make a choice. And, indeed, whether they made it clear that 
there was a choice. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I couldnt say that fuller information is likely to have 
made a difference (assuming incomplete information was in fact given). For the same 
reason, I still cant fairly say it would have made a difference. 
And similarly, I also set out why I couldnt conclude that the PPI wasnt presented as a 
choice. On the evidence I have, that is still my view. 
I do believe that Mr S and Mrs S are giving an honest account of what they remember from 
the time.  But, as I said previously, this happened more than 23 years ago, and theres a 
high chance they wont have accurately remembered the full details of what happened. So I 
cant fairly base a decision just on that. And I dont have other supporting evidence that is 
strong enough. 
For all these reasons, I havent decided the PPI policies were mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman