DRN-4265462
The complaint
Ms L complains HDI Global Speciality SE has unfairly withdrawn cover under her legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Ms L has a LEI policy which is underwritten by HDI. 
Ms L sought to claim on it to pursue a legal dispute against the seller shed 
purchased her property from. She said the seller had misrepresented information 
regarding the propertys heating system and roof during the sale. 
HDI accepted the claim and referred the matter to its panel firm of solicitors (who Ill 
refer to as J) for a prospects of success assessment. J deemed Ms Ls legal claim 
about the central heating to enjoy reasonable prospects of success, and a Letter of 
Claim was subsequently sent to the seller.
Because the seller didnt engage with J, it was deemed necessary to instruct Counsel 
to draft the Particulars of Claim and to provide prospects on the likelihood of Ms Ls 
claim succeeding at Court. 
Counsels opinion was that Ms Ls claim - regarding the heating - enjoyed prospects 
of success. 
It later transpired the seller potentially didnt own a property and so, there were 
concerns about recoverability being that there might not be a fixed asset against 
which damages, or a judgment could be secured. 
J explained that whilst the absence of a fixed asset would usually render prospects to 
fall below 50%, Ms Ls case was different because they were aware the seller had 
received a substantial cash sum by selling their property to Ms L. But without 
information confirming the sellers assets, it couldnt say prospects were better than 
50%. 
HDI subsequently withdrew cover. It said it would agree to J taking another look at 
Ms Ls claim in 3-6 months but that if prospects remained below 51%, Ms L would 
need to fund any further legal costs until reasonable prospects were established.  
Unhappy with HDIs decision, Ms L brought a complaint to this Service. An 
Investigator considered it and upheld it, saying HDI should ask J to carry out further 
enquiries into the sellers assets by instructing an enquiry agent and covering the 
costs of doing so. 
Ms L agreed with the Investigators opinion though wanted to clarify the amount she 
was seeking to be recover was approximately £10,000. HDI considered J to be 
responsible for deciding what enquiries were reasonable and so, didnt consider it or 
this Service to be suitably placed to comment on this.
Because the parties disagree, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HDI has a responsibility to handle claims fairly and promptly and must not 
unreasonably decline a claim. Here, HDI has withdrawn cover because it says Ms Ls 
legal claim no longer enjoys reasonable prospects of success. 
The policy document defines reasonable prospects of success as [] a greater 
than 50% chance of the insured successfully pursuing or defending the claim and, if 
the insured is seeking damages or compensation, a greater than 50% chance of 
enforcing any judgment that might be obtained.
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear that a legal claim with prospects of success 
deemed at less than 51% wouldnt be covered. 
Its not in dispute that Ms Ls legal claim initially enjoyed prospects of success  it 
was only upon realising the seller potentially didnt have a fixed asset that the issue 
of recoverability arose - which cast doubt on whether prospects were greater than 
50%. 
I note J said that whilst in theory the seller had access to a substantial fund to satisfy 
a damages judgment  it hadnt been able to confirm there was a fixed asset to which 
a judgment could be secured.
Because the concerns about recoverability have potentially impacted the legal 
claims prospects of success I can understand why, on the face of it, HDI considered 
it reasonable to withdraw cover. But here, Im not satisfied HDI has done enough to 
satisfy itself J had carried out reasonable checks to determine whether there were 
other assets or not. And I think this led to HDI withdrawing funding prematurely. 
Whilst HDI has said its not responsible for the decisions J has made in terms of its 
enquiries into the sellers assets, it is ultimately, responsible for deciding whether it 
has enough information to satisfy itself that its decision to decline a claim is 
reasonable. 
HDI has limited information from J saying the seller doesnt appear to have a fixed 
asset. But Im not persuaded thats sufficient. Its routine practice for solicitors to 
instruct enquiry agents and put together a report about the respondents assets and 
financial status. And its not unreasonable to expect the insurer to have had sight of 
such a report before deciding whether to provide cover  particularly in a situation 
like this where the prospects of success seemingly hinge on this information. But 
thats not happened here. 
So, in line with what our Investigator recommended, I consider it reasonable to direct 
HDI to ensure an enquiry agent is instructed to complete further enquiries into the 
respondents status and assets, and that the cost of doing so is covered by the policy. Doing so will inform Js position as to the legal claims prospects of success, 
which will in turn be considered by HDI in determining whether the claim is covered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and HDI Global Speciality SE must direct J to 
carry out further investigations into the respondents assets by instructing an enquiry agent - 
or have this arranged elsewhere if J is unable to meet this request. The cost of doing so 
should be covered by HDI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman