DRN-3792622
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account despite him 
complying with the requirements to keep it open.
What happened
Mr S who resides overseas held a current account with Santander. Santander wrote to Mr S 
in June 2020 to inform him that his card had not been used and that he would need to make 
a purchase or withdraw funds by 16 August 2020 to ensure his card is renewed. This was 
part of a regular review of debit and cash machine cards so that replacement cards are not 
sent out if they are not being used. No replacement card was issued to Mr S as the card 
issued was not used.
Santander wrote to Mr S on 10 June 2022 to inform him that as the account had not been 
used since 17 March 2020 it would close on 10 August 2022 and that it would send a 
cheque for the balance. Santander also said Mr S could start funding the account which 
would cease the closure process.
On 14 June 2022 Mr S visited a branch for assistance to unblock his account and arrange a 
replacement card. Santander told Mr S this would be sent out to him. On 30 June 2022 Mr S 
arranged a transfer of funds to his account to avoid closure but this was rejected. Mr S 
raised this with Santander and was told the blocks had been removed and a replacement 
card was sent out. Mr S was able to make a series of small payments into the account in 
July 2022.
In July 2022 Santander requested documentation from Mr Ss overseas bank account which 
he supplied. On review of the documentation Santander took the decision to continue with 
the closure of the account and on 11 August 2022 issued a closure letter and enclosed a 
cheque for the remaining balance.
Mr S complained to Santander about this, he wants the account reopened. Santander 
apologised for the inconvenience but said it had made the decision to close the account and 
that no error had been made on its behalf.
Mr S was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Ss concerns and reached the conclusion that 
providing the correct notice was given Santander is under no obligation to continue offering 
an account to a customer if it doesnt want to.
Mr S disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr S has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr S back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Santanders terms and conditions say that it can close an account by giving 60 days notice. 
Furthermore, they say the customer must permanently reside in the UK to qualify for an 
account.
I appreciate the inconvenience the closure of Mr Ss account has caused him in that it may 
have impacted his standing orders and ability to open a new account while residing 
overseas. But ultimately who Santander decides to provide its banking services to is a 
commercial decision and it isnt something for me to get involved with. So providing 
Santander gave the required 60 days notice of closing the account  and I can see it did this 
in its letter of 10 June 2022  I cant say Santander made a mistake. 
However, I do think that Santanders notice of closure was misleading and did cause 
confusion in that it said if Mr S funded the account this would cease the closure process. 
And I can understand Mr Ss frustration in that he thought his account would remain open as 
he funded the account on this basis. But I cant see that Santander ever said that as Mr S 
funded the account the notice period had stopped running, or that Mr S had confirmation that 
the closure process had ceased. 
Ultimately Santander took the decision to close Mr Ss account  which it was entitled to do. 
I think the communication regarding this caused Mr S some inconvenience but the resolution 
he is seeking (Santander opening another account for Mr S) is not something I can direct 
Santander to do. Mr S is not a permanent resident in the UK and Santander is under no 
obligation to provide Mr S with banking services. 
So overall and having considered everything, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint as Santander 
is not obliged to provide banking services to Mr S. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman