DRN-2409001
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his limited company, which I will call T, that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc 
What happened
Mr B is the sole director of T. In November 2019 he paid one of his suppliers with a cheque 
dated 25 November, drawn on Ts account with RBS. That cheque was presented for 
payment on 26 November, but there was not enough money in Ts account, and so it was 
unpaid. T incurred a £12 unpaid item fee. Two days later the cheque was presented again 
and this time it was cleared, more money having been paid into Ts account in the meantime.
Mr B says that as a result of the cheque not clearing the first time, his supplier no longer 
trusts Ts cheques and now demands payment up front. Another supplier heard about what 
had happened and also requires payment up front. He says this has hurt his business. He 
says what happened is RBSs fault because when he checked the account using online 
banking on 26 November, it did not show that the cheque had been presented.
RBS did not accept that it was responsible, but as a gesture of good will it refunded the 
unpaid item fee.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that RBS had done nothing wrong 
and that it had been Mr Bs responsibility to make sure there was enough money in Ts 
account for the cheque to clear, since Mr B had known about the cheque.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to consider this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint, because RBS has done nothing wrong. I agree with our 
investigator that it was Mr Bs responsibility to ensure there was enough money in the 
account for the cheque to clear. I appreciate that he checked the account balance online, but 
I would not expect a cheque to show on a bank statement when it has not yet cleared. Also, 
even if cheques did show on statements as soon as they are presented (which they dont), it 
would have been too late to assist Mr B, because the cheque would by then have been 
unpaid. But I think it is irrelevant what a statement shows, because Mr B knew he had sent 
the cheque, so he should have made sure there was enough money in the account. He 
didnt. That isnt RBSs fault, and their gesture of good will is in my view generous.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman