DRN-3182919
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Debt Managers (Services) Limited have been reporting incorrect 
information on his credit file.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit agreement which defaulted in 2016 and was 
acquired by Debt Managers in 2017.
In March 2019, Mr M paid off the debt in full. However, this was not registered on his credit 
file properly. For example, while the account showed as having a zero balance, it had no 
default satisfaction date and the start date was wrong. Mr M discovered this when applying 
for mortgages, as his brokers flagged it as an issue.
In March 2021, Mr M raised the issue with Debt Managers. In May 2021, Debt Managers 
said theyd written to all three credit reference agencies to correct the data. But the issue 
persisted. In June 2021, Debt Managers issued their final response. They accepted that the 
information reported had been incorrect, but felt theyd already resolved the matter. Mr M 
provided us with his credit file to show that the information was still incorrect.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Debt Managers 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence here is limited, so Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the information I have.
Debt Managers have provided some evidence that they reported some information correctly, 
such as the zero balance. They now feel they didnt report any incorrect information. But 
from the limited evidence theyve given us, Im not satisfied that they were reporting the 
correct start date or default satisfaction date. And Mr M has provided his credit file to show 
that this information still remained incorrect months and months after he raised the issue 
with Debt Managers. Further, Debt Managers did previously admit that the information theyd 
reported on his credit file was incorrect.
From what I understand, there were issues with the information across the different credit 
reference agencies and Debt Managers had to contact all three to correct their data. That 
suggests that the issue was on Debt Managers end  it is rather unlikely indeed that the 
different credit reference agencies all happened to separately make errors of their own.
So I think its most likely that Debt Managers got things wrong here. And while I understand 
they feel they acted quickly and did what they could, the fact that the information remains 
incorrect suggests otherwise. Indeed, were now almost a year on from Mr M making Debt 
Managers aware of the problem  and almost three years on from when he cleared the debt 
 and yet from what I can see, their credit file entry remains erroneous.
I understand this has caused Mr M some real trouble and upset in trying to sort things out, 
not least given all the time its taken. I also understand it caused him some issues in finding 
a mortgage, though Im pleased to hear he found one in the end. Our investigator suggested 
that Debt Managers should correct the credit file entry and pay Mr M some compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, and I agree thats fair here. 
Putting things right
I direct Debt Managers (Services) Limited to:
Work with the credit reference agencies to make sure that the information for this 
account is fully correct across the board  including correcting the start date and 
default satisfaction date; and-
Pay Mr M £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint, and direct Debt Managers 
(Services) Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman