DRN-1514687
complaint
Mrs T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs T took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1989. Over the years she remortgaged a number 
of times with Lloyds. In 2000 she took a further advance and at the same time she bought a 
PPI policy. The PPI wouldve covered the repayments on the further advance for up to 12 
months at a time if Mrs T couldnt work. 
Mrs T says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. She says she didnt need 
it and never would have bought it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. Mrs T disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs 
Ts complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs T says that she was never made aware that she bought PPI. Lloyds has provided copies 
of the full proposal form which Mrs T completed for the PPI, the policy schedule sent to her 
when the policy became live (which noted that the policy could be cancelled at any time), the 
completed direct debit form for the premiums to be taken (which was separate to the 
mortgage payments), and a further letter from a couple of months after the PPI started 
explaining that there had been a problem with the direct debit payments which had  been 
resolved.
On balance, I think its unlikely that Mrs T could have been unaware of the PPI at the time of 
sale even if she cant remember it now. And I think its likely Mrs T understood she had a 
choice about taking it.
Lloyds gave Mrs T a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the PPI was right for her
Looking at Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale I think the PPI was suitable for her. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs T had sick pay from her employer, but the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than her full sick pay 
would have lasted. Similarly, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay, 
leaving any redundancy pay or savings to cover other uninsured expenses. Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
So, on balance, I dont think Mrs T lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done 
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman