DRN-2896307
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) has prevented online access 
to his accounts and hasnt updated him about a solution.
What happened
Mr B says he has been unable to use his NS&I accounts online for over a year. He says 
NS&I encourages its customers to use online banking but doesnt provide a reliable service 
and says its security measures have caused the access problems. Mr B says he is based 
outside the United Kingdom and using telephone banking takes too long. He says NS&I has 
upheld his complaint but hasnt provided any update on sorting the problem out.
NS&I sent Mr B its final response letter in August 2020 and apologised and said it was 
aware of an issue which was being investigated. It suggested using a landline as an 
alernative and said it upheld the complaint and also paid £50 compensation. NS&I has told 
us that it assumed it was at fault when it wrote the letter but now says the known fault is not 
the reason for Mr Bs access problems. It says it cant say what caused the access problems 
here.
Mr B had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained we couldnt order NS&I to change its procedures or policies and didnt 
think it clear what caused the problems here but couldnt fairly conclude NS&I was at fault. 
The investigator also explained we couldnt comment on the impact on other customers and 
didnt think Mr B had made any attempts to use online services since July 2020.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary says NS&I accepted its mistake and told him 
there would be a fix. He disputes the access problem was caused by anything he did or 
didnt do and says the lack of communication is key. He also says NS&I is obliged to update 
him and he has incurred vast telephone costs. Mr B would like £5,700 compensation for the 
agony and distress he says he has suffered and says he was told not to use online services 
until there was a solution.
NS&I says it offered a goodwill payment but didnt accept responsibility for what took place 
and says Mr B can access his accounts in other ways.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NS&I hasnt dealt appropriately with this 
complaint in part, but I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how strongly Mr B 
feels about what has taken place.
I make clear to Mr B that we are not NS&Is regulator. So, its not our role to order NS&I to 
find a solution for these sorts of online issues and order it as Mr B says to fulfil assurances it 
gave to him and other customers. We also cant order NS&I to take up Mr Bs suggestion 
about alternative security questions or procedures.
I have looked carefully at NS&Is final response letter as both sides refer to it and about what 
it says. Mr B says NS&I told him he would be told the outcome of the investigation and NS&I 
says it offered goodwill in the letter without accepting responsibility. I find the letter told Mr B 
there was a known issue to which NS&I suggested an alternative and that it apologised for 
the inconvenience caused. The letter went on to say the complaint was upheld but Im 
satisfied that letter did not tell Mr B that he would be updated with an outcome response or 
that there would be further communications between them. Im also satisfied that NS&I didnt 
tell Mr B that it was offering a goodwill payment of £50 and that he was reasonably entitled 
to conclude his complaint was upheld.
So, I dont think NS&I told Mr B it would update him, and I think it was entitled to look into his 
complaint again which is what I would have expected. That second investigation concluded 
NS&I hadnt made a mistake and I think in those circumstances it is entitled to change its 
mind about what took place and why. I dont think by initially accepting responsibility NS&I 
acted unfairly by later deciding the known problem was not the cause of the problem here.
I appreciate Mr Bs concern about using online services, but I hope he appreciates I cant 
order NS&I find a solution to the problem here. Im satisfied that Mr B is able to access his 
money and carry out transactions using different methods. And whilst I accept Mr B says the 
lack of a solution is key, that is not something that this service has the power to change. I 
dont think Mr B has told me how many transactions have been affected and I appreciate he 
cant provide evidence of any call costs.
I accept NS&I hasnt been as clear as it could have in dealing with this complaint and I have 
made clear that I dont think its final response letter made any mention of a goodwill payment 
or that it wasnt accepting responsibility. But I dont think Mr Bs requested compensation of 
£5,700 is reasonable or realistic and I dont think the impact has been extreme as he says. 
I am also satisfied Mr B has been able to carry out transactions. Im satisfied that NS&I has 
paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount for the initial inconvenience and cant fairly 
order it to increase that offer.
Overall, Im satisfied that it is impossible to be sure what has caused Mr Bs online access 
problems and if linked to his location. But Im satisfied Mr B is able to use and access his 
money but accept his preferred access method would be online. I accept longer term Mr B 
may have to consider alternatives if the access problem cant be resolved. I also accept Mr B 
is unlikely to accept my decision, but I find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve 
this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman