DRN-3358283
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained about how their claim was delayed and poorly managed under 
their home insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd (QIC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim on their policy with QIC in August 2020 when they discovered 
water leaking through the top of their wall in the kitchen. The water later proved to be that 
from a sewage pipe. Mr and Mrs R explained in detail several issues that they felt 
disappointed with. Mr and Mrs R were left waiting some 12 months or more after the initial 
incident before the damage to their home could be rectified. The issues included: poor 
claims process / handling of the claim and misdirection by QIC, avoidable delays and poor 
workmanship.
Mr and Mrs R said the problems left them with a large hole in the kitchen wall and holes in 
the ceiling for most of the year. Mr and Mrs R said theyve had to use their living room as a 
make-shift kitchen since August 2021. Mr and Mrs R felt tied into QIC as an insurer and 
renewed their policy as they were inhibited from moving to a new insurer as they still had an 
active claim open. 
QIC set out its summary of the claim and hasnt highlighted any areas where it feels it 
provided a sub-standard service to Mr and Mrs R. Although, QIC did say Whilst it is regretful 
that the policyholder is unhappy with the snagging works, I am satisfied that we have agreed 
with [Mr and Mrs R] a suitable means to resolve the outstanding works. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought QIC had dealt fairly with 
resolving issues with snagging from the contractors, but he thought the level of service 
wasnt good enough (poor signposting of the claims process and unresponsive at times), so 
he awarded £300 compensation to Mr and Mrs R for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
QIC disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 11 February 20222. I said:
The claim has been running for well over 12 months, so I have reviewed the information 
provided by both parties to understand the timeline of events which led to this complaint. 
Having considered this information  I dont think its reasonable for this claim to have been 
drawn out for so long. I dont think QIC has acted fairly. I think the service provided has been 
lacking which has led to unnecessary and avoidable delays. Therefore, I uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R first contacted QIC in August 2020 after a plumber diagnosed the cause of the 
damage to their bathroom / kitchen as a leaking sewage pipe. To repair the pipe, the 
plumber advised access could only be achieved by removal of Mr and Mrs Rs bath, shower, 
unit/worktop, and tiles leaving the bathroom unusable. So, QIC instructed Mr and Mrs R to 
get quotes from contractors to repair the damage that would be caused by the repairing the 
leak and remaining damage.
Mr and Mrs R contacted six businesses between August 2020 and November 2020 to get 
quotes for the works. Unfortunately, as it was a busy time, only one company provided a 
quote. It could start the works on 22 February 2021 if a deposit was paid. So, Mr and Mrs R 
provided this information to QIC who officially opened the claim.
QIC appointed a field surveyor to validate the damage on 25 November 2020. Mr and Mrs R 
were unhappy with his investigations and said, he didnt even look behind the bath or in the 
hatch behind the wall to see where the leak was. Mr and Mrs R said they didnt receive any 
feedback from QIC following the survey.
QIC informed Mr and Mrs R that they needed to get a report from a plumber. QICs notes 
show this was to evidence the leak. Its normal in escape of water claims for an insurer to 
want to validate the cause of the leak, so I dont think this is unusual. Mr and Mrs R arranged 
this at a cost of £200 and a report was provided to QIC in December 2020.
However, whilst I think its reasonable that QIC wanted to validate the leak, I dont think the 
way it has done this is reasonable. I dont think QIC has managed the start of this claim 
effectively. I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect QIC who are experts in managing 
claims to have set out the claims process more clearly at the start. I dont think it was fair 
that QIC waited until November before asking for a plumbers report. If QIC wanted this 
assurance, it shouldve instructed Mr and Mrs R to request this in August, some three 
months earlier. I have read the surveyors report and it suggests the surveyor thought the 
leak was most likely caused through the grouting around the shower in the bathroom, which 
is why he requested a plumbers report. On the face of it, this seems a fair observation. 
However, Mr and Mrs R had already explained where the leak was coming from and the 
surveyor didnt seem to examine or explore for this cause at all. 
I think QIC shouldve asked a surveyor to inspect the damage when the incident was first 
reported. At the very least, it shouldve asked for a plumbers report earlier, which wouldve 
saved around three months on the timeline. I think the surveyor couldve investigated the 
leak better and this would probably have mitigated the need for Mr and Mrs R to commission 
a report, so I intend that QIC refund Mr and Mrs R the cost of this report, on the production 
of valid receipts.
QIC said following receipt of the plumbers report, it instructed asbestos containing material 
(ACM) testing and said Mr and Mrs R confirmed they were happy to use one of QICs 
contractors for reinstatement works. Mr and Mrs R thought the ACM testing couldve been 
instructed earlier. I understand why QIC waited, as it was waiting for the plumbers report to 
validate the cause of the damage. However, as I set out, QIC shouldve made sure it 
facilitated the claims process, so the cause of the damage was validated earlier. I think the 
consequence of that was a further avoidable delay. QIC offered the use of its appointed 
contractor. However, I think this provides further evidence of the poor handling of the 
complaint. If, the complaint had been handled well from the start, Mr and Mrs R wouldve 
been aware a QIC appointed contractor was an option, so Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have 
wasted two to three months of their time sourcing quotes. QICs contractor couldve scoped 
out the required works.
Mr and Mrs R were informed in mid-January 2021, via QICs portal, that the appointed 
contractor would be in touch with them within 7 days, but it didnt. Mr and Mrs R chased QIC 
several times for updates and QIC subsequently told Mr and Mrs R it was chasing its 
contractors. Mr and Mrs R were informed on 26 February 2021, the contractors were not 
working due to Covid-19. The contractors position on working had not changed since the previous Boxing Day, so Mr and Mrs R were unsure what caused the delay in being told this. 
Whist I appreciate, Covid-19 has caused many issues, I dont think its a valid reason for QIC 
not to be in communication with its contractors or for providing accurate messaging to Mr 
and Mrs R on what was happening. So, I dont think QIC has acted reasonably here.
On 1 March 2021, QIC offered a cash settlement due to the restrictions on them being able 
to contract for the rectification works due to Covid-19. I think this was a fair step to take 
given the restrictions at the time. However, if QIC had completed the earlier steps of the 
process more effectively, the work shouldve been completed by this point. Mr and Mrs R 
rejected the settlement, as they said they couldnt get the works completed for the money 
offered, so they informed QIC they would wait for QICs contractor to do the work.
QICs contractor undertook its initial inspection, then there was liaison with the in-house 
surveying team and Mr and Mrs R to agree some points of the rectification works. For 
example, the contribution required from Mr and Mrs R for undamaged aspects of the 
rectification and to explain the policy in respect to matching. This is normal in any claim to 
clarify whats covered under the policy and to agree what works are going to occur. So, I 
dont think anything wrong happened here.
Mr and Mrs R said it chased QIC during April and May 2021 for a start date for the works. I 
appreciate this wouldve been a frustrating wait for them. Whilst, I think QIC couldve been 
more pro-active with its communications. I dont think I can hold them to account for this 
delay as the country was only just coming out of lockdown at this time due to the pandemic.
QICs contractor commenced works on 9 August 2021, which I think was an extremely long 
time to wait for Mr and Mrs R given the survey was completed on 9th March 2021. I 
appreciate the lockdown was only released in March 2021 and this happened gradually, but I 
dont think it was reasonable for five months to pass before the work started.
Mr and Mrs R raised issues with the workmanship in their kitchen. They said the wrong sized 
kitchen units were ordered and these had to be re-done. QICs notes show there was an 
issue with the worktop, but QIC felt Mr and Mrs R relationship with the contractor made it 
difficult to resolve this quickly. A surface repair company made a repair to the worktops 
which QIC funded.  Ive found it difficult to understand exactly whats happened here. I think 
the overall timeline of the claim probably added to the tensions between the parties. What is 
clear is there was some snagging that needed to be rectified. Whilst, its fair to allow 
snagging to be addressed, I have no doubt it will have added to the further distress and 
inconvenience of this claim for Mr and Mrs R.
For the reasons I have set out, I dont think QIC has acted reasonably in this claim. I think
the service provided has been lacking which has led to unnecessary and avoidable delays. 
Mr and Mrs R has been inconvenienced by having to get a plumbers report and quotes, 
which I think couldve been avoided. I think the claims process has not been explained very 
well to Mr and Mrs R, nor implemented well by QIC. I have considered what the impact this 
had on Mr and Mrs R. The claim was delayed and still ongoing 12 months after the initial 
incident. This itself would be distressing. The condition of the kitchen was unsightly. The leak 
was reported to contain sewage, so from a hygienic point this is far from ideal and Mr and 
Mrs R explained that mould developed. Mr and Mrs R were likely to have been concerned 
that the leak may have recurred until it was fixed. Mr and Mrs R said theyve not been able to 
use the kitchen properly whilst the snagging was ongoing. I recognise with any claim there 
will be some inconvenience for the claimants. However, I think Mr and Mrs R have been 
impacted significantly and for a long period of time with this claim. Therefore, I intend to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience of £600. I think this is fair and in line 
with what our service would normally award.Mr and Mrs R has said QIC still hasnt rectified all the faults on their snagging list. I dont 
have the information to comment on each aspect, but I think QIC needs to contact Mr and 
Mrs R and review what aspects remain outstanding and agree a plan to get these fixed 
where its appropriate, so the claim can be closed. If Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with QICs 
response, they should raise a new complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
QIC accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs R accepted my provisional decision. They said they never received a receipt for 
the plumbers report as it was paid over the telephone. However, Mr and Mrs R said they 
could evidence the payment using their bank statement and by sharing the report itself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties have accepted my provisional decision, there is no reason to change it. I 
will allow Mr and Mrs R to provide their bank statement to QIC as proof of payment to the 
plumber along with the report itself. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require QIC Europe Ltd to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs R £600* compensation  for the distress and inconvenience the 
delay and poor handling of the claim has caused them
Refund Mr and Mrs R for the cost of providing the plumbers report (on production of 
valid receipts / proof of payment)
Review Mr and Mrs Rs snagging list and agree a plan to get these points fixed 
where appropriate
* QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Mr and Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman