DRN-3289952
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Brightside Insurances Services Limited provided poor 
customer service when he contacted them with an enquiry about making a windscreen 
claim under his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Mr W dealt with a trading style of Brightside, but for the sake of ease I have referred 
to Brightside throughout this decision, as that is in effect who Mr W dealt with.
What happened
Mr W has said he called a number on Brightsides website and chose option 1 for taxi 
policies. He was then given five further options and chose the claims option. He said he 
was abused and ridiculed for selecting the incorrect option. And the agents he spoke to 
refused to help him. Mr W then called Brightside and chose a different option and left a 
voicemail in which he just swore. An agent from Brightside called him back to find out how 
she could help him. He explained that he probably needed to make a complaint, as hed 
spoken to someone on the claims line who had told him it was nothing to do with them and 
refused to help him. And he explained that they blocked his number after hed spoken to 
him and he was just cut off when he tried to go through on the same option again.
The agent told Mr W that she would refer the issue to her manager and it would be 
investigated. Mr W then explained that he wanted to check what the excess was under his 
policy for a windscreen claim. The agent told him what the excesses under the policy were 
for windscreen claims and offered to put Mr W through to his insurers windscreen claim 
line, saying she would explain to the person what had happened before she put Mr W 
through. Mr W asked whether the claim would affect his no claims bonus and the agent 
told him it wouldnt, but to confirm this with his insurers claims team. The agent explained 
there could be a wait whilst she held to get through to someone on the claims line. She 
then put Mr W on hold. A few minutes later the call ended, but it is not clear why. Mr W 
then called Brightside back and left a voicemail asking someone to call him.
Another agent called Mr W back just over 30 minutes after the first call ended. Mr W once 
again explained hed spoken to the claims team and they had no interest in speaking to 
him. He said hed then spoken to Brightside customer services and they couldnt advise 
him on
how a windscreen would affect his no claims bonus (NCB). He also said hed spoken to 
the windscreen team and they couldnt help him because they couldnt give him a 
specified time to attend to deal with his windscreen issue.
The agent explained to Mr W that if it was purely a windscreen claim it wouldnt affect his 
no claim bonus. Mr W asked the agent if he could put that in writing. The agent said he 
couldnt do this, as he didnt work for the windscreen team. Later he said he was not 
allowed to do this. Mr W then said he wanted to make a complaint and that part of this 
was about the approach the agent was taking. Eventually, Mr W said he wanted to speak 
to the cancellations team. The agent said he was part of the cancellations team and could 
give Mr W a cancellation quote. But Mr W said he didnt want to speak to the agent about 
this.
The agent said he could raise a complaint for Mr W and get someone to call him about 
this and cancelling the policy. Mr W said he wanted to speak to someone there and then. 
So, the agent said hed put him on hold while he tried to find someone that was available. 
Mr W was on hold for about 12 minutes and then the same agent came back on the call 
and explained that hed spoken to someone who works alongside his manager and his 
manager was in a meeting until 11.30. And he could arrange for her to call him back. Mr 
W said hed hold and the agent queried whether hed like to be on hold for an hour. When 
the agent reiterated his manager would not be available until 11.30, Mr W said hed like to 
speak to someone else.
The agent said he would put Mr W on hold again to see if he could find someone else he 
could speak to. And then he put Mr W on hold again. Mr W was on hold for about another 
20 minutes and then the agent came back on the call and said he couldnt find anyone 
available and would have to get someone to call Mr W back. Mr W then asked if he could 
speak to the Chief Executive Officer. The agent said he would get the next available 
manager to call him, but couldnt give him a time. Mr W then asked the agent to confirm he 
didnt want to help him with his query. The agent said he couldnt help him as he didnt 
work for the windscreen team. Mr W asked if Brightside had a windscreen team. The 
agent explained that this was the team Mr W had spoken to previously. Mr W pointed out 
this was separate company. Mr W then got very frustrated and then swore and was 
abusive to the agent and the call ended.
As far as I can see, no-one from Brightside called Mr W back. He sent numerous emails 
about the issue he had. Eventually, someone emailed him the following day to say they 
were dealing with his complaint and asking him to stop sending emails. They also told him 
in this email and an email later the same day that they could not advise him on whether 
his windscreen claim would affect his NCB until it had been established that the damage 
to the windscreen was due to wear and tear. The email also said Brightside were unable 
to confirm any details of a claim until it had been reported through the correct channels, as 
detailed in their terms of business confirmation, as this was under the insurers jurisdiction.
Brightside then sent Mr W a final response to his complaint later the same day. In this they 
explained their role was to manage his policy on behalf of the insurer. They went on to 
explain that when hed called hed spoken to a car rental company. They didnt tell Mr W 
this, but Brightside have told me this company helps customers who have alternative 
vehicle cover, which Mr W doesnt have. So, they couldnt help him with a windscreen 
claim. And that theyd placed a bar on his phone number due to his bad language and 
attitude towards their staff. Brightside then explained theyd spoken to the insurers 
windscreen company and theyd confirmed Mr W had got an appointment booked with 
them for a few days-time. And theyd be able to confirm if the damage was as a result of 
normal wear and tear or as a result of vandalism. Brightside added they could not be held 
responsible if the windscreen company couldnt give a precise time slot, as they are a third 
party company and will book appointments when they become available.
Brightside also set out what Mr Ws Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) said
about windscreen claims. They also said that, having listened to the call with the agent he 
had complained about, they did not agree he was rude or unhelpful. And they felt the call 
was dealt with professionally and accurately to the best of the agents ability. And 
Brightside finished by saying, once it had been established how his windscreen had 
become damaged, Mr W would then know how to proceed and if it was not a favourable 
outcome, he would need to speak directly with his insurer to log a full claim.Mr W wasnt happy and asked us to consider a complaint about Brightside. When doing 
so he said Brightside refused to give policy details when requested and that hed been 
blocked from reporting incidents to them. He explained how he thinks Brightside should 
manage his policy and that hes never spoken to his insurer direct before. And when he 
did speak to them on three occasions he was referred back to Brightside to answer his 
questions regarding his no claim discount. He also mentioned there had been a number 
of customer services issues with Brightside. He pointed out hed been unable to arrange 
for his windscreen to be repaired due to uncertainty over the impact of a windscreen 
claim on his NCB. And that he spent a vast amount of time attempting to obtain 
information from Brightside, which had resulted in a loss of earnings. And he thinks 
Brightside have caused him a great deal of stress and uncertainty. He wants assurances 
that his future queries will be dealt with without delay and with certainty. Mr W also wants 
an acknowledgement that Brightside acted completely inappropriately and 
unprofessionally, along with an assurance that adequate retraining will be provided to all 
the staff involved.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. Originally he didnt think it should 
be upheld. But, after Mr W made further representations, he concluded Brightside hadnt 
provided an adequate level of service and that this had caused Mr W distress and 
inconvenience. He suggested Brightside should pay Mr W £100 in compensation to reflect 
this.
Brightside doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. They still think 
they provided an adequate level of service and explained things well enough to Mr W.
I isued a provisional decision on 28 January. In this I provisionally decided that whilst I 
thought there were some things Brightside could have done better, overall I they did try to 
help Mr W and attempted to explain the impact a windscreen claim would have on his 
policy. And I didnt think the service they provided was bad enough for me to award 
compensation to Mr W, bearing in mind he swore when contacting them on two occasions 
and was abusive to one of their staff. I said in view of this I didn
I gave both parties until 11 February to provide further comments or evidence. Brightside 
have responded to say they have nothing further to add. Mr W has responded to say he 
doesnt accept my provisional decision. Hes explained the primary reason for this is the 
fact that Brightside still wouldnt inform him of the impact to his NCB even after his vehcile 
had been inspected by the windscreen company. And this is something I ommitted from 
my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ws point in response to my provisional decision. The reason I omitted this 
point is that as far as I can see Mr W didnt raise it as part of his complaint to Brightside or as 
part of his complaint to us. Therefore, it wasnt something I was able to consider. When Mr 
W completed his complaint form he said he had not been able to arrange the repair of his 
vehicle. And I can see he signed the complaint form on 18 June 2021 and his windscreen 
inspection and repair had been booked for 22 June 2021. So I have assumed from this that 
at the point he complained the damage to his windscreen hadnt been inspected.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Brightside tried to help Mr W. Although, I 
accept they could have been clearer in explaining the impact a windscreen claim would have 
on his NCB, they did correctly tell Mr W that, provided it was just a windscreen claim, it wouldnt affect his NCB. 
In any event, I can see Mr Ws insurer told him his NCB would not be affected by his 
windscreen claim. And, I presume he has now had his windscreen replaced and the claim 
didnt affect his NCB. 
In summary, nothing Mr W has said in response to my provisional decision has altered my 
view his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr Ws complaint about Brightside Insurance Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman